According to one aspect of the present invention, a substrate processing system is provided. The system may include a chamber wall enclosing a chamber, a substrate support positioned within the chamber to support a substrate, an electromagnetic radiation source to emit electromagnetic radiation onto the substrate on the substrate support, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from a material on the substrate, an analyzer to capture the photoelectrons emitted from the substrate, and a magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field within the chamber and guide the photoelectrons from the substrate to the analyzer.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a chamber wall enclosing a chamber; a substrate support positioned within the chamber to support a semiconductor substrate; an electromagnetic radiation source to emit electromagnetic radiation onto the substrate on the substrate support, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from the substrate; an analyzer to capture the photoelectrons emitted from the material on the substrate; and a magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field within the chamber and guide the photoelectrons from the substrate to the analyzer wherein the analyzer and the magnetic field generator are positioned on opposing sides of the substrate support. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the magnetic field generator is positioned beneath the substrate support. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the chamber comprises a first portion and a second portion. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising: a load-lock chamber adjacent to the first portion of the chamber; and a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, the substrate support being attached to the robotic arm, the arm being rotatably connected to the base, the base being connected to the chamber wall. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein when the substrate support is in the second portion of the chamber, the analyzer and the magnetic field generator are positioned on opposing sides of the substrate support. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein when the substrate support is in the second portion of the chamber, the magnetic field generator is positioned beneath the substrate support. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the chamber is a vacuum chamber and the magnetic field generator is not positioned within the vacuum chamber. 8. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a chamber wall enclosing a vacuum chamber; a substrate support positioned within the vacuum chamber to support a substrate; an electromagnetic radiation source to emit electromagnetic radiation onto the substrate on the substrate support, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from the substrate; an analyzer to capture the photoelectrons emitted from the substrate; and a magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field within the vacuum chamber and guide the photoelectrons from the substrate to the analyzer, the magnetic field generator being positioned outside of the vacuum chamber. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the analyzer and the magnetic field generator are positioned on opposing sides of the substrate support. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the magnetic field generator is positioned beneath the substrate support. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the chamber comprises a first portion and a second portion. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a load-lock chamber adjacent to the first portion of the chamber; and a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, substrate support being attached to the robotic arm, the robotic arm being rotatably connected to the base to transport the substrate support from the load-lock chamber to the second portion of the chamber. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein when the substrate support is in the second portion of the chamber, the analyzer and the magnetic field generator are positioned on opposing sides of the substrate support. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein when the substrate support is in the second portion of the chamber, the magnetic field generator is positioned beneath the substrate support. 15. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a chamber wall enclosing a chamber having a loading portion and a testing portion; a robotic stage having a robotic arm and a substrate support, the robotic arm being capable of moving the substrate support between the loading and testing portions of the chamber; an electromagnetic radiation source to emit electromagnetic radiation onto a substrate on the substrate support when the substrate support is in the testing portion of the chamber, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from a material of the substrate; an analyzer to capture the photoelectrons emitted from the substrate; and a magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field within the chamber and guide the photoelectrons from the substrate to the analyzer, the magnetic field generator being positioned beneath the substrate support when the substrate support is in the testing portion of the chamber. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the chamber is a vacuum chamber and the magnetic lens is not positioned within the vacuum chamber. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the magnetic lens is less than 5 mm beneath the substrate support when the substrate support is in the testing portion of the chamber. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein at least a portion of the robotic arm rotates about an axis of rotation, the axis of rotation passing through the entry portion of the chamber. 19. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a chamber wall enclosing a chamber; a substrate support positioned within the chamber to support a substrate; an electromagnetic radiation source to emit electromagnetic radiation onto a portion of the substrate on the substrate support, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from the substrate; an analyzer to capture the photoelectrons emitted from the portion of the substrate; and a camera subsystem to collect visible light that is reflected off the portion of the substrate and capture an image of the portion of the substrate. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the visible light propagates from the portion of the substrate perpendicularly to an upper surface of the substrate. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the photoelectrons captured by the analyzer are emitted from the portion of the substrate in a first direction and the visible light collected by the camera subsystem propagates from the portion of the substrate in a second direction, the first and second directions being substantially parallel. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the photoelectrons captured by the analyzer and the visible light collected by the camera subsystem at least partially intersect. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the photoelectrons captured by the analyzer are arranged in a photoelectron bundle having a central axis, the visible light collected by the camera subsystem is arranged in a visible light bundle having a central axis, and the central axis of the photoelectron bundle is coaxial with the central axis of the visible light bundle. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the camera subsystem further comprises a camera and a reflector, the reflector being positioned above the portion of the substrate and having a reflective surface and an opening therethrough, the photoelectrons passing through the opening and into the analyzer and the visible light being reflected off the reflective surface and into the camera. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the reflector is positioned between the analyzer and the substrate support. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the chamber comprises a first portion and a second portion. 27. The system of claim 26, further comprising: a load-lock chamber coupled to the first portion of the chamber; and a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, the substrate support being attached to the robotic arm, the robotic arm being rotatably connected to the base to transport the substrate support from the load-lock chamber to the second portion of the chamber. 28. The system of claim 27, further comprising a magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field within the chamber and guide the photoelectrons from the substrate to the analyzer. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein when the substrate support is in the second portion of the chamber, the analyzer and the magnetic field generator are positioned on opposing sides of the substrate support. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the magnetic field generator creates a magnetic field which has a rotational symmetry which is coaxial with the central axes of the photoelectron bundle and the visible light bundle. 31. The system of claim 24, wherein the camera and the reflector are connected to the chamber wall in fixed positions relative to each other. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the camera and the reflector are connected to the chamber wall in fixed positions. 33. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a chamber wall enclosing a chamber; a substrate support positioned within the chamber to support a substrate; an electromagnetic radiation source to emit electromagnetic radiation onto a portion of the substrate on the substrate support, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from the portion of the substrate; an analyzer to capture the photoelectrons emitted from the portion of the substrate; a magnetic field generator to generate a magnetic field within the chamber and guide the photoelectrons from the substrate to the analyzer; and a camera subsystem to collect visible light that is reflected off the portion of the substrate and capture an image of the portion of the substrate. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the visible light propagates from the portion of the substrate perpendicularly to an upper surface of the substrate. 35. The system of claim 33, wherein the photoelectrons captured by the analyzer are emitted from the portion of the substrate in a first direction and the visible light collected by the camera subsystem propagates from the portion of the substrate in a second direction, the first and second directions being substantially parallel. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the photoelectrons captured by the analyzer and the visible light collected by the camera subsystem at least partially intersect. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the photoelectrons captured by the analyzer are arranged in a photoelectron bundle having a central axis, the visible light collected by the camera subsystem is arranged in a visible light bundle having a central axis, and the central axis of the photoelectron bundle is coaxial with the central axis of the visible light bundle. 38. The system of claim 37, wherein the magnetic field generator creates a magnetic field which has rotational symmetry which is coaxial with the central axes of the photoelectron bundle and the visible light bundle. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the camera subsystem further comprises a camera and a reflector, the reflector being positioned above the portion of the substrate and having a reflective surface and an opening therethrough, the photoelectrons passing through the opening and into the analyzer and the visible light being reflected off the reflective surface and into the camera. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the reflector is positioned between the analyzer and the substrate support. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the chamber comprises a first portion and a second portion. 42. The system of claim 41, further comprising: a load-lock chamber connected to the frame and being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber; and a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, the substrate support being attached to the robotic arm, the robotic arm being rotatably connected to the base to transport the substrate support from the load-lock chamber to the second portion of the chamber. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein when the substrate support is in the second portion of the chamber, the analyzer and the magnetic field generator are positioned on opposing sides of the substrate support. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein the camera and the reflector are connected to the chamber wall in fixed positions relative to each other. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein the camera and the reflector are connected to the chamber wall in fixed positions relative to the frame. 46. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a substrate support to support a substrate having an upper surface; and a camera subsystem to collect visible light that is reflected off a portion of the substrate and capture an image of the portion of the substrate, the visible light propagating from the portion of the substrate in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the upper surface of the substrate upper surface. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the camera subsystem further comprises a camera and a reflector, the reflector being positioned above the portion of the substrate and having a reflective surface and an opening therethrough. 48. The system of claim 47, wherein the camera and the reflector are connected in fixed positions relative to each other. 49. The system of claim 48, wherein the camera and the reflector are connected to a chamber wall enclosing a chamber wherein said substrate support is in said chamber. 50. The system of claim 49, wherein reflector is positioned above the substrate and the substrate support is capable of moving the substrate towards and away from the camera subsystem. 51. A photoelectron spectroscopy system comprising: a substrate support to support a substrate; an anode; an electron gun to direct a beam of electrons onto said anode, said electrons causing an electromagnetic radiation to be emitted from said anode; a beam shaper for shaping said beam of electrons into a first beam shape on a first portion of said anode and into a second beam shape onto a second portion of said anode; and a monochromator to redirect the electromagnetic radiation emitted from said anode onto said substrate, wherein when the first beam shape of electrons is directed onto the said first portion of said anode, the electromagnetic radiation striking a first target portion of said substrate with said first beam shape, and wherein said second beam of electrons is directed onto said second portion of said anode, the electromagnetic radiation striking a second target portion of said substrate with said second beam shape. 52. The system of claim 51, wherein said first beam shape is an elongated oval or rectangle. 53. The system of claim 52, wherein said elongated oval or rectangle has a length and a width wherein the length is at least twice the width. 54. The system of claim 51, wherein said first beam shape and said second beam shape are both elongated ovals or rectangles. 55. The system of claim 51, wherein the second portion of the anode at least partially overlaps the first portion of the anode. 56. The systems of claim 51, wherein said first beam shape on said first portion of said anode is rotated to said second portion of said anode to form said second beam shape. 57. The system of claim 56, wherein said substrate support is coupled to a robot which moves said substrate support in a polar (R, O) coordinate system. 58. The system of claim 51, wherein said beam of electrons has a power rating of greater than 100 watts. 59. The system of claim 52, wherein said first shape has an area of between 400 and 40,000 microns.sup.2. 60. A method of conducting photoelectron spectroscopy comprising: placing a substrate having a metrology pad on a substrate support wherein said substrate support is connected to a robot; moving said substrate support to a test location; and generating an electromagnetic radiation beam and shaping said electromagnetic radiation beam to position said electromagnetic radiation beam over said metrology pad of said substrate; and shaping said electromagnetic radiation into a second beam shape to place said second beam of electromagnetic radiation over a second metrology pad of said substrate. 61. The method of claim 60, wherein said robot moves said substrate support to said test location utilizing preprogrammed coordinates. 62. The method of claim 60, wherein said robot moves said substrate support utilizing polar coordinates (R, O). 63. The method of claim 60, further comprising after moving said substrate support to said test location, utilizing an optical viewing system to determine the location of said metrology pad. 64. The method of claim 60, wherein said viewing system receives light reflected from said metrology pad centered around a direction perpendicular to said substrate. 65. The method of claim 60, further comprising moving said substrate support to a second test location wherein moving said substrate support from said first test location to said second test location includes rotating said substrate support. 