Apparatus and methods are disclosed for cleaning and priming a droplet dispensing device having a plurality of nozzles aligned in at least one row. A dispensing surface of the dispensing device comprising the nozzles is sealingly engaged to form a chamber adjacent the dispensing surface. A wash fluid is introduced into the chamber and removed from the chamber. A priming vacuum is applied individually, and preferably, simultaneously, to at least a portion of the plurality of the nozzles. Optionally, a wash fluid is subsequently introduced into the chamber and removed from the chamber to rinse the dispensing surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning and priming a droplet dispensing device for dispensing a fluid reagent for synthesis, said dispensing device comprising a plurality of nozzles aligned in at least one row, said method comprising: (a) sealingly engaging a dispensing surface of said dispensing device comprising said nozzles to form a chamber adjacent said dispensing surface, (b) introducing a wash fluid into said chamber and removing said wash fluid from said chamber, and (c) applying a vacuum individually to at least a portion of the plurality of said nozzles within said chamber wherein the vacuum is sufficient to prime said portion of the plurality of said nozzles with the fluid reagent to be dispensed and wherein the vacuum is applied to said portion of the plurality of said nozzles by means of individual vacuum sources. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said wash fluid is removed from said chamber by applying a vacuum to said chamber. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said vacuum applied to said chamber to remove said wash fluid is applied from a central portion of said chamber. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said dispensing device comprises a plurality of nozzles aligned in two parallel rows having inner opposing sides and outer sides and said wash fluid is introduced from openings in said chamber on the outer sides of said rows. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein said wash fluid is removed from said chamber by applying a vacuum to said chamber between said rows. 6. A method according to claim 1 further comprising subsequent to step (c) applying a vacuum to said chamber wherein said vacuum is sufficient to dry said nozzles and said dispensing surface. 7. A method according to claim 1 further comprising: (d) introducing a wash fluid into said chamber and removing said wash fluid from said chamber. 8. A method according to claim 7 further comprising subsequent to step (d) applying a vacuum to said chamber sufficient to dry said nozzles and said dispensing surface. 9. A method for cleaning and priming a droplet dispensing device to dispense a fluid reagent for synthesis of a biopolymer, said device comprising a plurality of nozzles aligned in at least one row, said method comprising: (a) sealingly engaging a dispensing surface of said droplet dispensing device comprising said nozzles to form a chamber below said dispensing surface, (b) introducing a wash fluid into said chamber and applying a vacuum to said chamber sufficient to remove said wash fluid from said chamber, (c) applying a vacuum simultaneously and individually to each of the plurality of said nozzles within said chamber wherein the vacuum is sufficient to prime said nozzles with the fluid reagent to be dispensed and wherein the vacuum is applied to said nozzles by means of individual vacuum sources, (d) introducing a rinse fluid into said chamber and applying a vacuum to said chamber sufficient to remove said rinse fluid from said chamber, and (g) drying said nozzles and said dispensing surface by applying a vacuum to said chamber sufficient to dry said nozzles and said dispensing surface. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said chamber is formed by moving said dispensing device to an apparatus comprising a centrally located vacuum source, a plurality of individual vacuum sources for priming the nozzles with the fluid reagent to be dispensed and an opening for introducing a wash fluid or a rinse fluid. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein said opening functions as a vent. 12. A method according to claim 9 wherein said vacuum of step (b) and said wash fluid of step (c) are introduced in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to said dispensing surface. 13. A method according to claim 9 wherein said dispensing device comprises a plurality of nozzles aligned in two parallel rows having inner opposing sides and outer sides and said wash fluid is introduced from openings in said chamber on the outer sides of said rows. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said wash fluid is removed from said chamber by applying a vacuum to said chamber between said rows. 15. A method for cleaning and priming a droplet dispensing device for dispensing a fluid reagent for synthesizing a biopolymer, said dispensing device comprising a plurality of nozzles aligned in at least one row, said method comprising: (a) sealingly engaging a dispensing surface of said dispensing device comprising said nozzles to form a chamber below said dispensing surface, (b) introducing a wash fluid into said chamber in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to said dispensing surface of said chamber and removing said wash fluid from said chamber in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to said dispensing surface, and (c) applying a vacuum simultaneously and individually to at least a portion of the plurality of said nozzles wherein the vacuum is sufficient to prime said portion of the plurality of said nozzles with the fluid reagent to be dispensed and wherein the vacuum is applied to said portion of the plurality of said nozzles by means of individual vacuum sources. 16. A method according to claim 15 further comprising: (d) introducing a wash fluid into said chamber from the periphery of said chamber and removing said wash fluid from a center of said chamber. 17. A method for cleaning and priming a droplet dispensing device for dispensing a fluid reagent for synthesizing a biopolymer, said device comprising a plurality of nozzles aligned in at least one row, said method comprising: (a) sealingly engaging a dispensing surface of said droplet dispensing device comprising said nozzles to form a chamber below said dispensing surface, (b) introducing a wash fluid into said chamber from the periphery of said chamber and applying a vacuum to said chamber from approximately a center thereof wherein the intensity of said vacuum is sufficient to remove said wash fluid from said chamber, (c) applying a vacuum simultaneously and individually to each of the plurality of said nozzles wherein the vacuum is sufficient to prime said nozzles with the fluid reagent to be dispensed and wherein the vacuum is applied to said nozzles by means of individual vacuum sources, (d) introducing a rinse fluid into said chamber from the periphery of said chamber and applying a vacuum to said chamber from approximately a center thereof wherein the intensity of said vacuum is sufficient to remove said rinse fluid from said chamber, and (e) applying a vacuum to said chamber from approximately a center thereof wherein the intensity of said vacuum is sufficient to dry said nozzles and said dispensing surface. 