A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits. The assembly further comprising drive electronics incorporating at least one controller which is connected to at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing for removably holding at least one mounting element which mounts the drive electronics and incorporates a clamping arrangement for clamping the at least one printhead module to the casing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly of a plurality of separable individual parts, the assembly comprising: at least one printhead module part comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a drive electronics part incorporating at least one controller which is connected to at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a casing part removably supporting at least one mounting element which mounts the drive electronics and incorporates a clamping arrangement for removably clamping the at least one printhead module to the casing, wherein the clamping arrangement is configured to allow movement of the at least one printhead module relative to the casing during operation of the printhead assembly. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least two fluid distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the support member includes longitudinally extending tabs on the two parallel sides thereof the casing comprises a support frame for supporting the at least one mounting element, the support frame comprising a first side wall having a longitudinally extending recessed groove and a second side wall substantially parallel to the first side wall; and the longitudinally extending tab on one side of the support member is received in the longitudinally extending recessed groove of the support frame and the longitudinally extending tab on the other side of the support member is received on an upper surface of the second side wall of the support frame. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the clamping arrangement comprises recessed portions for interlocking with lug members of the printhead module. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the lug members are provided along the longitudinally extending tabs of the support member and are spaced so as to correspond to positions at which the at least two printhead integrated circuits are provided on the at least one printhead module, and the recessed portions engage with the lug members on the longitudinally extending tab. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the clamping arrangement of the at least one mounting element comprises at least one extending arm portion arranged so as to clamp the longitudinally extending tab of the support member to the upper surface of the second side wall of the support frame. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the at least one extending arm portion includes at least one of the recessed portions of the clamping arrangement. 