Method and apparatus for providing high strength, low frequency tactile sensations using an inertial actuator in a haptic feedback interface device, such as an actuator driving an oscillating inertial mass. A commanded low frequency is modulated or combined with a higher frequency at which the tactile sensations feel stronger, where the resulting signal is used to output a tactile sensation at the higher frequency and convey the commanded low frequency to the user. One embodiment provides higher frequency pulse bursts at the desired low frequency wherein the higher frequency pulse bursts are at or near a resonant frequency of the actuator; other embodiments modulate or otherwise vary the amplitude of the higher frequency signal according to the desired low frequency.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: having a first frequency at which to output a tactile sensation; determining a second frequency higher than the first frequency; wherein the second frequency is at or near a resonant frequency of an actuator; and combining a waveform having the first frequency and a waveform having the second frequency to produce a signal configured to cause a tactile sensation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the waveform having the second frequency is created by modulating the waveform having the first frequency. 3. A method, comprising: having a first frequency at which to output a tactile sensation; determining if the first frequency is below a predetermined threshold frequency, if the first frequency is below the predetermined threshold frequency; determining a second frequency higher than the first frequency; wherein the second frequency is at or near a resonant frequency of an actuator; and combining a waveform having the first frequency and a waveform having the second frequency to produce a signal configured to cause a tactile sensation at the second frequency that conveys a tactile sensation at the first frequency; and if the first frequency is not below the predetermined threshold frequency: producing a signal based on the first frequency, the signal configured to cause a tactile sensation. 4. An apparatus, comprising: a controller configured to provide a signal, the signal configured to cause a tactile sensation, the controller configured to receive an indication of a first frequency and output the signal at a second frequency based on the received indication, the second frequency being higher than the first frequency, the controller configured to repeat the output of the signal at a period substantially corresponding to the first frequency; an actuator configured to output the tactile sensation based on the signal; a mass coupled to the actuator, the signal being configured to cause the mass to move; and at least one sensor being configured to sense a movement of the mass, the controller being configured to modify the signal based on the movement of the mass. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein one or more of the at least one sensor configured to detect planar motion of at least a portion of the apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein a period substantially corresponding to the second frequency is approximately twenty percent of the period substantially corresponding to the first frequency. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the signal includes a plurality of periodic bursts. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the signal includes a plurality of groups of periodic bursts, the period between each group of periodic bursts from the plurality of groups substantially corresponding to the first frequency. 9. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the signal includes a plurality of bi-directional bursts. 10. A computer-readable medium comprising code representing instructions to cause a computer to: having a first frequency at which to output a tactile sensation; determining a second frequency higher than the first frequency; wherein the second frequency is at or near a resonant frequency of an actuator; and combining a waveform having the first frequency and a waveform having the second frequency to produce a signal configured to cause a tactile sensation. 11. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the code representing instructions to cause a processor to combine includes code representing instructions to cause a processor to: produce the signal to include a plurality of groups of periodic signal pulses, each signal pulse within the periodic signal pulses of each group having the second frequency, the period between each group of periodic signal pulses from the plurality of groups substantially corresponding to the first frequency. 12. The processor-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the second frequency is a resonant frequency of a device via which the signal is configured to cause the tactile sensation. 13. The processor-readable medium of claim 10, the waveform having the second frequency is created by modulating the waveform having the first frequency. 14. A computer-readable medium comprising code representing instructions to cause a processor to: receive an indication of a first frequency at which to output a tactile sensation; determine a second frequency at which to output a greater tactile sensation, the second frequency higher than the first frequency; wherein the second frequency is at or near a resonant frequency of an actuator; and combine a waveform having the first frequency and a waveform having the second frequency to produce a signal configured to cause a tactile sensation. 15. A processor-readable medium comprising code representing instructions to cause a processor to: having a first frequency at which to output a tactile sensation; determine a second frequency higher than the first frequency; wherein the second frequency is at or near a resonant frequency of an actuator; and combine a waveform having the first frequency and a waveform having the second frequency to produce a signal configured to cause a tactile sensation. 16. The processor-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the code representing instructions to cause a processor to combine includes code representing instructions to cause a processor to superimpose the waveform having the first frequency and the waveform having the second frequency. 17. A method, comprising: low-pass filtering each waveform from a plurality of waveforms to produce a plurality of low-passed waveforms, each low-passed waveform from the plurality of low-passed waveforms being uniquely associated with each waveform from the plurality of waveforms, the plurality of waveforms including a first waveform that is uniquely associated with a first low-passed waveform from the plurality of low-passed waveforms; high-pass filtering each waveform from the plurality of waveforms to produce a plurality of high-passed waveforms, each high-passed waveform from the plurality of high-passed waveforms being uniquely associated with each waveform from the plurality of waveforms, the first waveform being uniquely associated with a first high-passed waveform from the plurality of high-passed waveforms; producing a first envelope waveform by summing the plurality of low-passed waveforms except for the first low-passed waveform, the first envelope waveform being uniquely associated with the first high-passed waveform; and multiplying the first high-passed waveform by the first envelope waveform to produce a first product waveform. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: producing a second envelope waveform by summing the plurality of low-passed waveforms except for a second low-passed waveform, the second low-passed waveform being uniquely associated with a second waveform from the plurality of waveforms, the second envelope waveform being uniquely associated with a second high-pass waveform from the plurality of high-passed waveforms, the second high-pass waveform being uniquely associated with a second waveform from the plurality of waveforms; and multiplying the second high-passed waveform by the second envelope waveform to produce a second product waveform. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: producing a second envelope waveform by summing the plurality of low-passed waveforms except for a second low-passed waveform, the second low-passed waveform being uniquely associated with a second waveform from the plurality of waveforms, the second envelope waveform being uniquely associated with a second high-pass waveform from the plurality of high-passed waveforms, the second high-pass waveform being uniquely associated with a second waveform from the plurality of waveforms; multiplying the second high-passed waveform by the second envelope waveform to produce a second product waveform; and summing the first product waveform and the second product waveform. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: normalizing each low-passed waveform from the plurality of low-passed waveforms prior to producing the first envelope waveform. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising: normalizing the first high-passed waveform prior to multiplying. 