The present disclosure provides a high performance hybrid magnetic structure made from a combination of permanent magnets and ferromagnetic pole materials which are assembled in a predetermined array. The hybrid magnetic structure provides for separation and other biotechnology applications involving holding, manipulation, or separation of magnetic or magnetizable molecular structures and targets. Also disclosed are: a method of assembling the hybrid magnetic plates, a high throughput protocol featuring the hybrid magnetic structure, and other embodiments of the ferromagnetic pole shape, attachment and adapter interfaces for adapting the use of the hybrid magnetic structure for use with liquid handling and other robots for use in high throughput processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hybrid magnetic structure comprising: a. a non-magnetic base; b. a ferromagnetic pole; c. at least two blocks of permanent magnet material; wherein the at least two blocks of permanent magnet material are assembled onto said base on opposite sides of and adjacent to said ferromagnetic pole, in a periodic array, and have the magnetization orientations oriented in opposing directions and orthogonal to the height of said ferromagnetic pole, and wherein said blocks of permanent magnet material extend below the bottom edge of said ferromagnetic pole when assembled onto said base; and, wherein the ferromagnetic pole has a shaped tip which extends from a bottom edge to a shaped tip which extends beyond each block of permanent magnet material and wherein said shaped tip is shaped to produce a field gradient and to allow close proximity with a containment vessel. 2. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising two ferromagnetic poles, one on each end of said periodic array. 3. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising at least one retainer adjacent the outermost block of magnetic material. 4. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising a pair of opposing retainers extending orthogonally to the magnetization orientation. 5. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, having a magnetic field strength of at least 6000 Gauss. 6. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein said shaped tip has notches to adjust the field gradient produced. 7. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein said shaped tip features a chamfer allowing the pole to contour the shape of the containment vessel to maintain close proximity. 8. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein the non-magnetic base is aluminum. 9. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, wherein the ferromagnetic pole is made of steel or vanadium pemendur. 10. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 9, wherein the blocks of permanent magnet material comprise a rare earth element. 11. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 10, wherein the blocks of permanent magnet material comprise neodymium iron boron or samarium cobalt. 12. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising an upper interface attached on top of the hybrid magnetic structure. 13. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising a retainer rod running through the structure orthogonal to the height of the ferromagnetic pole. 14. The hybrid magnetic structure of claim 1, further comprising a lower locator plate attached to the bottom of the hybrid magnetic structure. 15. A radially arranged hybrid magnetic structure, comprising: a. a non-magnetic base having grooves therein; b. a wedge-shaped ferromagnetic pole having a bottom edge; c. at least two wedge-shaped blocks of permanent magnet material, assembled onto said base, wherein said wedge-shaped ferromagnetic pole is radially assembled onto the base between said blocks of permanent magnet material in a periodic array, with each block of permanent magnet material having a magnetization orientation which is oriented in an opposing direction to each adjacent permanent magnet and orthogonal to a lateral plane of the wedge-shaped ferromagnetic pole. 16. The radially-arranged hybrid magnetic structure of claim 15, further comprising a lower block of permanent magnet material assembled onto said base at the bottom edge of said ferromagnetic pole, wherein the magnetization orientation of said lower block of permanent magnet material is oriented axially facing into or out of the ferromagnetic pole, and wherein the magnetization orientations of said blocks of permanent magnet material and said lower blocks of permanent magnet material are all facing into or out of said ferromagnetic pole. 17. A hybrid magnetic structure, comprising: a. a non-magnetic base having grooves therein; b. an annular ferromagnetic pole; c. at least two annular blocks of permanent magnet material assembled onto said base, wherein said annular ferromagnetic pole is assembled onto the base between said annular blacks of permanent magnet material in a periodic array, with each block of permanent magnet material having a magnetization orientation which is oriented in an opposing direction to each adjacent permanent magnet and parallel to the axis of rotation of the annular ferromagnetic pole, wherein said blocks of permanent magnet material extend radially outward beyond the outside edge of said ferromagnetic pole when assembled onto said base, and wherein the ferromagnetic pole extends radially inward to a shaped tip which shaped to produce a field gradient and to allow close proximity with a containment vessel, and wherein the shape tip extends radially inward beyond the inner edge of each block of permanent magnet material. 18. A method of separating magnetized molecular particles from a sample, comprising the steps of: a. placing said sample containing magnetized molecular particles in close proximity with a hybrid magnetic structure, whereby there is formed a region comprising concentrated magnetized molecular particles; b. removing supernatant liquid without disturbing said region; c. removing said vessel from close proximity with said hybrid magnetic structure; and d. re-suspending said magnetized molecular particles in a liquid; wherein the hybrid magnetic structure comprises a non-magnetic base; blocks of permanent magnet material; and a ferromagnetic pole having a bottom edge and a shaped tip; wherein said tip is in close proximity to said sample during said separation, wherein said blocks of permanent magnet material are assembled onto said base on opposite sides of and adjacent to the ferromagnetic pole in a periodic array, having the magnetization orientations oriented in opposing directions and orthogonal to the height of the ferromagnetic pole. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said magnetic field has a strength of at least 6000 Gauss. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein at least 96 samples are separated in parallel. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the samples contain DNA coupled to a ferromagnetic material. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the samples contain a ferromagnetic material coupled to a biological material selected from the group consisting of; polynucleotides, polypeptides, proteins, cells, bacteria, and bacteriophage. 