A control system for a water amusement system is described. The control system is configured to operate the water amusement system to produce water effects, sound effects, and/or light effects when the control system receives an activation signal. The activation signal may be sent to the control system by an activation point, such as an optical touch button, or a water target. The control system is further configured to produce water effects, sound effects, and/or light effects in the absence of an activation signal to attract participants to the water amusement system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a water system configured to produce a water effect; a control system coupled to the water system, wherein the control system is configured to generate one or more water system control signals to activate the water system to produce the water effect; and an activation point coupled to the control system comprising an optical touch button, wherein the activation point is configured to receive one or more participant signals and send one or more activation signals to the control system; wherein the control system is configured to generate the water system control signals in response to the activation signals. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the control system is further configured to generate the water system control signals in the absence of activation signals. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the water system comprises a water effect generator, a conduit for carrying water to the water effect generator, and a flow control device disposed in the conduit, the flow control device configured to control the flow of water through the conduit, and wherein the flow control device is operable in response to the water system control signals generated by the control system. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, and wherein the indicator produces a visual indication during use. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, and wherein the indicator produces an audio indication during use. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, and wherein the indicator produces a tactile indication during use. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, wherein the indicator comprises an image projected on a screen during use. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of additional activation points for detecting participant signals during use, wherein at least one of the additional activation points comprises an optical touch button. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of additional activation points for detecting participant signals during use, wherein at least one of the additional activation points comprises an optical touch button; and wherein the water system is configured to produce a plurality of water effects, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce different water system control signals in response to activation signals received from different activation points, wherein the water system is configured to produce different water effects in response to different water system control system signals. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to produce water system control signals when an activation signal is not received for a predetermined amount of time. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising a participant detection system coupled to the control system, wherein the participant detection system is configured to detect the presence of a participant proximate to the water system and generate a detection signal in response to the presence of a participant proximate to the water system, and wherein the control system is configured to produce water system control signals in response to a detection signal. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising a participant detection system coupled to the control system, wherein the participant detection system is configured to detect the presence of a participant proximate to the water system and generate a detection signal in response to the presence of a participant proximate to the water system, and wherein the control system is configured to produce water system control signals in response to a detection signal, and wherein the control system is further configured to stop generating water system control signals in the absence of a detection signal. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the control system comprises a programmable logic controller. 15. A system comprising: a water system configured to produce a water effect; a sound system configured to produce a sound effect; and an activation point coupled to the water system and the sound system comprising an optical touch button, wherein the activation point is configured to receive one or more participant signals and send one or more activation signals in response to the participant signals, wherein the water system is configured to generate at least one water effect in response to an activation signal, and wherein the sound system is configured to generate at least one sound effect in response to an activation signal. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system; wherein the activation point is configured to receive one or more participant signals and send one or more activation signals to the control system in response to the participant signals. 17. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, wherein the activation point is configured to receive one or more participant signals and send one or more activation signals to the control system in response to the participant signals, wherein the control system is configured to generate one or more water system control signals to activate the water system to produce a water effect, and wherein the control system is configured to generate one or more sound system control signals to activate the sound system to produce a sound effect. 18. The system of claim 15, further comprising a electrical control device coupled to the water system and the sound system, wherein the electrical control device is configured to activate the water system and the sound system in response to an activation signal from the activation point. 19. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, wherein the control system is configured to generate water system control signals and sound system control signals in the absence of activation signals. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the water system comprises a water effect generator, a conduit for carrying water to the water effect generator, and a flow control device, the flow control device configured to control the flow of water through the conduit. 21. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, and an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use. 22. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, and an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, and wherein the indicator produces a visual indication when activated. 23. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, and an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, and wherein the indicator produces an audio indication when activated. 24. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, and an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, and wherein the indicator produces a tactile indication when activated. 25. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and the sound system, and an indicator configured to provide an indication to a participant to apply a participant signal, wherein the indicator is coupled to the control system and positioned proximate to the activation point, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce an indicator control signal to activate the indicator during use, wherein the indicator comprises an image projected on a screen when activated. 26. The system of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of additional activation points for detecting participant signals during use, wherein at least one of the additional activation points comprises an optical touch button. 27. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system, and a plurality of additional activation points for detecting participant signals during use, wherein at least one of the additional activation points comprises an optical touch button, and wherein the water system is configured to produce a plurality of water effects, and wherein the control system is further configured to produce different water system control signals in response to activation signals received from different activation points, wherein the water system is configured to produce different water effects in response to different water system control system signals. 28. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system, wherein the control system is configured to produce water system control signals when an activation signal is not received for a predetermined amount of time. 29. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and a participant detection system coupled to the control system, wherein the participant detection system is configured to detect the presence of a participant proximate to the water system and generate a detection signal in response to the presence of the participant proximate to the water system, and wherein the control system is configured to produce water system control signals and sound system control signals in response to a detection signal. 30. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and a participant detection system coupled to the control system, wherein the participant detection system is configured to detect the presence of a participant proximate to the water system and generate a detection signal in response to the presence of the participant proximate to the water system, and wherein the control system is configured to produce water system control signals and sound system control signals in response to a detection signal, and wherein the control system is further configured to stop generating water system control signals and sound system control signals in the absence of a detection signal. 31. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system, wherein the control system comprises a programmable logic controller. 32. The system of claim 15, further comprising a control system coupled to the water system and a light system, wherein the light system is configured to produce a light effect, wherein the control system is configured to generate light system control signals to activate the light system to produce the light effect, wherein the control system is further configured to generate the light system control signals in response to the activation signals, and wherein the control system is further configured to generate the light system control signals in the absence of activation signals. 33. A system comprising: a water system, the water system comprising: a first hollow member comprising a closed end and an opposite end having an opening therein; a second hollow member comprising first and second opposing open ends, wherein the second hollow member is of smaller cross-sectional area than the first hollow member, and wherein, during use, the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the first hollow member to form an airtight seal within the opening, such that the second open end is inside the first hollow member; a partition member with an opening therein, wherein, during use, the partition member is disposed inside the first hollow member and the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the partition member, such that the partition member is slidable along at least of portion of the second hollow member, and further wherein the partition member substantially forms a partition from the exterior surface of the second hollow member to the interior surface of the first hollow member; one or more fluid inlets configured to release fluid into the first hollow member during use; one or more gas inlets configured to release a gas into the first hollow member during use, and wherein the partition member is disposed between a gas inlet and the closed end of the first hollow member during use; a flow control device in communication with a gas inlet, wherein the flow control device is configured to control a flow of gas to the gas inlet; and an activation point comprising an optical touch button coupled to the water system. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein a control system is coupled to the water system. 35. The system of claim 33, wherein the partition member comprises one or more openings in addition to the opening that contains the second hollow member. 36. The system of claim 33, wherein the partition member has a substantially planar shape. 37. The system of claim 33, further comprising a sight coupled to the water system. 38. The system of claim 33, wherein the second hollow member is configured such that, during use, when the first open end of the second hollow member is pointed parallel to the ground, the second open end of the second hollow member is positioned lower than the first open end. 39. The system of claim 33, wherein the second hollow member comprises a first section connected at an angle to a second section. 40. The system of claim 33, wherein the second hollow member comprises a first section connected to a curved section. 41. The system of claim 33, further comprising one or more gas release valves configured to release gas from the first hollow member. 42. The system of claim 33, wherein a control system is coupled to the water system, further comprising one or more gas release valves configured to release gas from the first hollow member, wherein the control system is configured to control the gas release valve such that the gas release valve is opened when fluid level in the first hollow member reaches a first predetermined level, and the gas release valve is closed when the fluid reaches a second predetermined level in the first hollow member during use. 43. The system of claim 33, further comprising a support apparatus, wherein the support apparatus comprises a base and an upright member coupling the base to the first hollow member, wherein the first hollow member is configured to be movable from side to side with respect to the base during use. 44. The system of claim 33, further comprising at least one stop coupled to the second hollow member, wherein the at least one stop is configured to limit a range of motion of the partition member. 45. The system of claim 33, further comprising at least one stop coupled to the partition member, wherein the at least one stop is configured to limit a range of motion of the partition member. 46. The system of claim 33, wherein the activation point is adjacent to the water system. 47. The system of claim 33, wherein the activation point is remote from the water system. 48. The system of claim 33, wherein the water system is movable throughout a predetermined range of motion, and wherein the second hollow member is configured such that, when a fluid level in the first hollow member is at a first predetermined level, the second open end of the second hollow member is positioned below the fluid level throughout the predetermined range of motion of the water system. 49. A system comprising; a first water effect generator a second water effect generator; and a water target coupled to the second water effect generator, wherein the water target comprises a water retention area, and an associated liquid sensor; wherein the system is configured such that during use a participant directs the first water effect generator toward the water target in an attempt to strike the water target with water; wherein upon being hit with water, the water target sends an activation signal; and wherein the second water effect generator activates in response to the activation signal from the water target, and wherein one or more water effects created by the second water effect generator are directed toward a participant. 50. The system of claim 49, further comprising a control system coupled to the second water effect generator and the water target. 51. The method of claim 49, further comprising a electrical control device coupled to the water target, and the second water effect generator, wherein the electrical control device activates the second water effect generator in response to an activation signal from the water target. 52. The system of claim 49, wherein the first water effect generator comprises a water cannon. 53. The system of claim 49, wherein the first water effect generator comprises a nozzle. 54. The system of claim 49, wherein the water target further comprises a target area. 55. The system of claim 49, wherein the water target further comprises one or more drains. 56. The system of claim 49, wherein the liquid sensor comprises a capacitive liquid sensor. 57. The system of claim 49, further comprising a control system coupled to the interactive water game and an additional water effect generator coupled to the control system, wherein upon receiving an activation signal from the water target, the control system sends one or more control signals to the second water effect generator. 58. The system of claim 49, further comprising a control system coupled to the interactive water game, wherein upon receiving an activation signal from the water target, the control system sends one or more control signals to the second water effect generator, and wherein the second water effect generator is configured to create one or more water effects upon receiving the one or more control signals from the control system. 59. The system of claim 49, further comprising a control system coupled to the interactive water game, wherein upon receiving an activation signal from the water target, the control system sends one or more control signals to the second water effect generator, and wherein the second water effect generator is configured to create one or more water effects upon receiving the one or more control signals from the control system. 60. The system of claim 49, wherein the second water effect generator comprises a tipping bucket feature. 61. The system of claim 49, wherein the second water effect generator comprises a nozzle. 62. The system of claim 49, wherein the second water effect generator comprises a water cannon. 63. The system of claim 49, further comprising a play structure, wherein the water target is coupled to the play structure. 64. The system of claim 49, further comprising a play structure, wherein the water effect generators are coupled to the play structure. 