An improved particle beam treatment system optionally includes exchangeable particle beam nozzles. These particle beam nozzles may be automatically moved from a storage location to a particle beam path or between particle beam paths for use in medical applications. Movement may be achieved using a conveyance, gantry, rail system, or the like. The improved particle beam treatment system optionally also includes more than two alternative particle beam paths. These alternative particle beam paths may be directed to a patient from a variety of different angles and in different planes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a first treatment station for particle beam treatment of a patient; a particle accelerator configured to generate a particle beam; a first particle beam path along which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient; a second particle beam path along which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient; a particle beam nozzle configured to modify the particle beam; and a transport system configured to automatically move the particle beam nozzle from the first particle beam path to the second particle beam path. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is further configured to automatically move the particle beam nozzle from a nozzle storage to the first particle beam path under control of a processing unit. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is further configured to automatically move the particle beam nozzle to a third particle beam path associated with a second treatment station. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system or the particle beam nozzle is further configured to close a shutter disposed to protect a particle transparent vacuum seal in the first particle beam path. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to move a first particle beam nozzle between the first particle beam path and the second particle beam path, and to separately move a second different particle beam nozzle between the first particle beam path and the second particle beam path. 6. The system of claim 1, further including a third particle beam path through which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient, the third particle beam path being oriented at least 100 degrees from the first particle beam path. 7. The system of claim 1, further including a third particle beam path through which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient, the third particle beam path being in a different plane than a plane defined by the first particle beam path and the second particle beam path. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to move a first particle beam nozzle to the first particle beam path, and to separately move a second particle beam nozzle to the first particle beam path. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is configured to move a first particle beam nozzle to the first particle beam path, and to separately move a second particle beam nozzle to the first particle beam path, the first particle beam nozzle and the second particle beam nozzle being configured for different types of treatments. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is further configured to move a collimator between the first particle beam path and the second particle beam path. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the second particle beam path is configured to deliver the particle beam to the patient from below the patient. 12. A method comprising: generating a first particle beam of high-energy particles; directing the first particle beam of high-energy particles along a first particle beam path having first particle beam transport optics; modifying the first particle beam of high-energy particles using a particle beam nozzle; treating a first patient using the first particle beam of high-energy particles modified using the particle beam nozzle; selecting a second particle beam path having second particle beam transport optics; moving the particle beam nozzle from the first particle beam path to the second particle beam path under control of a processing unit; generating a second particle beam of high-energy particles; directing the second particle beam of high-energy particles along the second particle beam path; modifying the second particle beam of high energy particles using the particle beam nozzle; and treating the first patient or a second patient using the second particle beam of high-energy particles modified using the particle beam nozzle. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the high-energy particles include protons. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the first particle beam path and the second particle beam path are oriented significantly more than 90 degrees apart. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the first particle beam path is configured to deliver the first particle beam from above the first patient and the second particle beam path is configured to deliver the second particle beam from below the first patient or the second patient. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein moving the particle beam nozzle includes moving a gantry. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein moving the particle beam nozzle includes using a transport system. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein moving the particle beam nozzle includes positioning the particle beam nozzle using an encoder. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein moving the particle beam nozzle occurs while the first patient is at a treatment station. 20. The method of claim 12, further including opening a shutter in the second particle beam path. 21. The method of claim 12, wherein the processing unit is configured for moving the particle beam nozzle from the first particle beam path to the second particle beam path in less than one hour. 