A method and apparatus are disclosed for classifying materials utilizing a computerized touch sensitive screen or other computerized pointing device for operator identification and electronic marking of spatial coordinates of materials to be extracted. An operator positioned at a computerized touch sensitive screen views electronic images of the mixture of materials to be sorted as they are conveyed past a sensor array which transmits sequences of images of the mixture either directly or through a computer to the touch sensitive display screen. The operator manually "touches" objects displayed on the screen to be extracted from the mixture thereby registering the spatial coordinates of the objects within the computer. The computer then tracks the registered objects as they are conveyed and directs automated devices including mechanical means such as air jets, robotic arms, or other mechanical diverters to extract the registered objects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying and sorting selected material objects from a mixture of material objects comprising steps of: (a) conveying a mixture of material objects into and through an inspection zone; (b) irradiating said mixture of material objects with incident electromagnetic radiation while in said inspection zone; (c) measuring the electromagnetic radiation emanating from said irradiated mixture of material objects; (d) processing .[.said measured.]. .Iadd.measurements of .Iaddend.electromagnetic radiation to produce electronic images of said irradiated material objects and presenting said electronic images for visual display; (e) interactively .[.selecting.]. .Iadd.designating.Iaddend., from said visual display of material objects, selected material objects to be sorted from said mixture of material objects .Iadd.by using a computerized pointing device operable by a human operator.Iaddend.; and (f) .[.using an automated device to separate.]. .Iadd.separating .Iaddend.said selected material objects from said mixture of material objects. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said .[.interactive selecting of material objects to be sorted is performed by a human operator using a computerized pointing device.]. .Iadd.separating comprises using an automated device to separate said selected material objects from said mixture of material objects.Iaddend.. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein said interactive .[.selecting.]. .Iadd.designating .Iaddend.of material objects to be sorted by a human operator is analyzed by computerized learning and control algorithms so that identifications and .[.selections.]. .Iadd.designations .Iaddend.for the said .[.selecting.]. .Iadd.designating .Iaddend.of material items to be sorted is passed from the human operator to the computerized algorithms. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein said mixture of material objects is comprised of solid waste materials. 5. The method according to claim 3 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the microwave wavelength range. 6. The method according to claim 3 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the ultraviolet wavelength range. 7. The method according to claim 3 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the visible light wavelength range. 8. The method according to claim 3 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the infrared wavelength range. 9. The method according to claim 3 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the x-ray wavelength range. 10. The method according to claim 3 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the gamma ray wavelength range. 11. The method according to claim 2 wherein said mixture of material objects is comprised of solid waste materials. 12. The method according to claim 2 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the microwave wavelength range. 13. The method according to claim 2 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the ultraviolet wavelength range. 14. The method according to claim 2 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the visible light wavelength range. 15. The method according to claim 2 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the infrared wavelength range. 16. The method according to claim 2 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the x-ray wavelength range. 17. The method according to claim 2 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the gamma ray wavelength range. 18. The method according to claim 1 wherein said interactive .[.selecting.]. .Iadd.designating .Iaddend.of material objects to be sorted .[.is.]. performed by a human operator .[.and.]. is analyzed by computerized learning and control algorithms so that .[.decisions.]. .Iadd.identifications and designations .Iaddend.for the .[.selecting.]. .Iadd.designating .Iaddend.of material items to be sorted is passed from the human operator to the computerized algorithms. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein said mixture of material objects is comprised of solid waste materials. 20. The method according to claim 18 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the microwave wavelength range. 21. The method according to claim 18 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the ultraviolet wavelength range. 22. The method according to claim 18 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the visible light wavelength range. 23. The method according to claim 18 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the infrared wavelength range. 24. The method according to claim 18 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the x-ray wavelength range. 25. The method according to claim 18 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the gamma ray wavelength range. 26. The method according to claim 1 wherein said mixture of material objects is comprised of solid waste materials. 27. The method according to claim 1 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the microwave wavelength range. 28. The method according to claim 1 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the ultraviolet wavelength range. 29. The method according to claim 1 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the visible light wavelength range. 30. The method according to claim 1 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the infrared wavelength range. 31. The method according to claim 1 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the x-ray wavelength range. 32. The method according to claim 1 wherein said incident electromagnetic radiation is in the gamma ray wavelength range. 33. An apparatus for identifying .[.and sorting.]. selected material objects from a mixture of material objects comprising: (a) a conveyor that conveys a mixture of material objects into and through an inspection zone; (b) an electromagnetic radiation source that irradiates said mixture of material objects within said inspection zone with incident electromagnetic radiation; (c) a sensor that examines said material objects within said inspection zone and measures electromagnetic radiation emanating from said material objects; (d) a .[.microprocessor.]. .Iadd.computer system .Iaddend.that processes .[.said measured.]. .Iadd.measurements of .Iaddend.electromagnetic radiation to produce electronic images of said material objects as they pass through said inspection zone and a display coupled to said .[.microprocessor.]. .Iadd.computer system .Iaddend.that presents a visual display of said electronic images; .[.and.]. (.Iadd.e) a computerized pointing device; and .Iaddend. .[.(e).]. .Iadd.(f) .Iaddend.a human operator interface to said visual display such that an operator may .[.select.]. .Iadd.designate .Iaddend.selected material objects to be sorted from said mixture of objects .Iadd.using the computerized pointing device.Iaddend..[.; and (f) an automated device that separates said selected material objects from said mixture of material objects.]. . 34. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said mixture of material objects is comprised of solid waste materials. 35. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said sensor includes a CCD camera. 36. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said conveyor is taken from a group consisting of a belt conveyor, a vibrating pan conveyor, a slide, and a free fall trajectory. 37. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source includes a lamp emitting radiation in the visible range. 38. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said display includes a computer monitor. 39. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said human operator interface includes a touch sensitive screen. 40. The apparatus according to claim .[.33.]. .Iadd.52 .Iaddend.wherein said automated device includes an air ejector. 41. The apparatus according to claim .[.33.]. .Iadd.52 .Iaddend.wherein said automated device includes a robotic arm. 42. The apparatus according to claim 41 wherein said robotic arm includes a suction cup end effector. 43. The apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said suction cup includes means to rotate said suction cup upward and which further includes means for disconnecting vacuum to said suction cup and means to provide compressed air to said suction cup to propel an object held by said suction cup into a receiving chute or bin. 44. The apparatus according to claim 41 wherein said robotic arm includes a driven and retractable spike end effector. 45. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation emanating from said material objects as they pass through said inspection zone is passed through a filter to pass only selected wavelengths prior to measuring said electromagnetic radiation. 46. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source provides incident electromagnetic radiation in the microwave wavelength range. 47. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source provides incident electromagnetic radiation in the ultraviolet wavelength range. 48. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source provides incident electromagnetic radiation in the visible wavelength range. 49. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source provides incident electromagnetic radiation in the infrared wavelength range. 50. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source provides incident electromagnetic radiation in the x-ray wavelength range. 51. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said electromagnetic radiation source provides incident electromagnetic radiation in the gamma ray wavelength range. .Iadd.52. The apparatus according to claim 33, further comprising an automated device that separates said selected material objects from said mixture of material objects..Iaddend. .Iadd.53. The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the computer system comprises computerized learning and control algorithms so that identifications and selections for the selecting of material items to be sorted is passed from the human operator to the computerized algorithms..Iaddend. .Iadd.54. The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the visual display is remote from the inspection zone..Iaddend. .Iadd.55. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (e) is performed remotely from the location where step (a) is performed..Iaddend. .Iadd.56. The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the computer system electronically tracks positions of selected material objects as they are further conveyed..Iaddend. .Iadd.57. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of electronically tracking positions of selected material objects as they are further conveyed..Iaddend. .Iadd.58. The apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the apparatus visually tags and displays selected material objects..Iaddend. .Iadd.59. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of visually tagging and displaying selected material objects..Iaddend. 