A system and methods for integrating laboratory instrumentation and applications to provide a unified control and coordination architecture under a common interface. The system provides mechanisms for detection of various hardware and software components wherein the individual functionalities and input/output data types for each component are automatically recognized and incorporated into a centralized control system that provides live monitoring of the operational status of available components.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control and communications system for a laboratory, the system comprising: a client component configured to control or monitor the operation of at least one biological analyzer; at least one analyzer component associated with the at least one biological analyzer configured to receive instructions from the client component and translate the instructions into commands capable of inducing the associated biological analyzer to conduct an analysis and provide data indicative of the analysis; at least one directory configured to provide information to the client component as to the logical location and parameters of said at least one analyzer component such that the client component is able to control or monitor the at least one biological analyzer by referencing the information provided by the at least one directory to induce the at least one biological analyzer to conduct the analysis; and a messaging service configured to communicate with the at least one analyzer component and the client component such that a new biological analyzer can be configured to be included in the laboratory by associating at least one of the analyzer components with said new biological analyzer and updating the at least one directory with information as to the logical location of the analyzer component allowing the client component to control or monitor the new biological analyzer using the parameters provided by the at least one directory. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the biological analyzer is a biological data analyzer. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the biological data analyzer comprises an application configured to analyze biological sample constituents selected from the group consisting of: DNA, RNA or protein. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the biological analyzer comprises an instrument configured to perform at least one of the functions selected from the group consisting of: single nucleotide polymorphism analysis and structural analysis. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one biological analyzer comprises at least one instrument selected from the group consisting of: thermal cyclers, sequence detection instruments, and electrophoresis instruments. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one biological analyzer comprises at least one robotic instrument configured to identify and physically manipulate at least one biological sample. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one directory is configured to respond to requests by the client component for information about a requested biological analyzer providing the logical location of the analyzer component associated with the requested biological analyzer thereby providing a mechanism for the client component to communicate with the biological analyzer via the messaging service. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one server component configured to provide data to the at least one directory that describes the parameters associated with a particular biological analyzer. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one directory is configured to respond to requests by the client component for information about a requested server component providing the logical location of the server component thereby providing a mechanism for the client to communicate with the server via the messaging service. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the client component controls and monitors the operation of the one or more biological analyzers using a generic instruction set translated into appropriate biological analyzer-specific commands by the analyzer component. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the client component communicates with the one or more biological analyzers using a generic communication set translated into appropriate biological analyzer-specific communications by the at least one directory. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the information provided by the at least one directory includes information identifying one or more of the following: biological analyzer type, biological analyzer groups, biological analyzer serial numbers, available biological analyzers and physical localities for biological analyzers; and the at least one directory provides at least a portion of the information to the client component as requested allowing available biological analyzers in the laboratory to be identified. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein: the information contained in the at least one directory identifies each biological analyzer and includes a topic list under which messages are published by the at least one analyzer component associated with each biological analyzer; the messaging service provides a mechanism for the client component to register and receive messages published by the analyzer components that correspond to topics in the topic list selected by the client component; and the messaging service responds to publication requests for messages under an associated topic from an analyzer component sending the message to each of the at least one client components that registered to receive messages for that topic. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the directory is implemented using the Java Naming and Directory Interface and the messaging service is implemented using a Java Messaging service. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein each analyzer component provides for at least one of the following functionalities: control of the biological analyzer, receiving biological analyzer status information, receiving biological analyzer history information, transmitting information to the biological analyzer and receiving information from the biological analyzer. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein each analyzer component comprises software modules, including: a state model module configured to maintain a state of the biological analyzer within a corresponding state model, wherein the client component instructions cause transitions within the state model; and a translation module, which translates instructions received from the client component implementing commands for effectuating transitions within the state model and translates these instructions into commands recognized by the biological analyzer. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameters of said at least one biological analyzer comprise at least one of the following: container parameters, assay parameters, and information relating to manual control parameters for a selected biological analyzer. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameters of said at least one analyzer component comprise XML instructions. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one directory is configured to include information regarding available software applications and wherein new software applications may be integrated into the system by updating the at least one directory with appropriate information regarding the new software application. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein a hardware sharing layer provides a mechanism for multiple or simultaneous connection to at least one biological analyzer by multiple client components. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the hardware sharing layer supports Java and non-Java based client components. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the hardware sharing layer supports web-browser based connectivity. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the hardware sharing layer allows a selected client component to be informed of other client component activity. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein the hardware sharing layer improves flexibility by operating substantially independently of underlying communications layers and biological analyzer specific implementations. 25. A method for controlling the operation of a laboratory, the method comprising: associating at least one analyzer component with at least one biological analyzer wherein the at least one analyzer component translates received instructions into commands recognized by the at least one biological analyzer directing the at least one biological analyzer to conduct analyses and provide data indicative of the analyses; maintaining a directory providing information as to the logical location and parameters of each analyzer component within the laboratory allowing a client component to access the at least one biological analyzer and implement at least one process to direct the at least one biological analyzer to conduct the analyses; and adding a new biological analyzer to the laboratory by associating at least one analyzer component with the newly added biological analyzer and updating the directory as to the logical location of the biological analyzer such that the new biological analyzer is discoverable and accessible by the client component providing a mechanism to implement at least one process to direct the new biological analyzer to conduct analyses. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising maintaining in the directory at least one group of instructions for each of the biological analyzers within the laboratory such that the client components can access the directory and determine which of the at least one group of instructions are implemented by each analyzer component allowing the client component to access a biological analyzer implementing a selected process. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein each biological analyzer accessed during the implementation of the selected process is assigned to the selected process upon its onset. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein each biological analyzer accessed during the implementation of the selected process is selected from one or more of biological analyzers capable of conducting the analysis. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein resource utilization is improved by selection of the biological analyzer just prior to the access of the biological analyzer. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising transmitting signals between the at least one client component and the at least one analyzer component using a generic list of instructions that are translated by the analyzer component into specific commands to control the biological analyzer. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the analyzer component translation is provided by a translation protocol used to translate the generic list of instructions into specific commands that the biological analyzer is programmed to implement. 32. The method of claim 25, wherein the biological analyzer is instructed to analyze DNA, RNA or protein constituents of biological samples. 33. The method of claim 25, wherein the biological analyzer is instructed to perform single nucleotide polymorphism analysis or structural analysis. 34. The method of claim 25, further comprising maintaining at least one set of biological type information for each biological analyzer such that the client component can determine biological analyzer type parameters by accessing a server that maintains the biological type information. 35. The method of claim 25, further comprising transmitting a signal to the client component indicating those biological analyzers available in the laboratory. 36. The method of 25, further comprising: maintaining in the directory a list of topics under which messages are published by the at least one analyzer component associated with each biological analyzer; registering the at least one client component with a messaging service such that the client component receives messages published by at least one analyzer component corresponding to topics selected by the client component; and transmitting messages for each topic to the messaging service so that the messages are disseminated to client components registered to receive messages under selected topics. 37. The method of claim 25, further comprising responding to a request by the client component for information about a requested biological analyzer or biological analyzer type with a response containing at least one logical location for at least one analyzer component associated with the requested biological analyzer or with a logical location for a server containing biological analyzer type information for the requested biological analyzer type so that the client component can access the requested biological analyzer or biological analyzer type information through a messaging service. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein responding to the request allows management of the at least one biological analyzers by the client component at a high-level without requiring the client component to posses specific details of the biological analyzer wherein such details are provided by the directory. 39. The method of claim 25, wherein the directory is configured to include information identifying at least one software application configured for use in the laboratory and wherein additional new software applications can be integrated within the laboratory by updating the directory to include information about the new software application. 