Provided herein are substrates for matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometric analysis. Each spot includes 3-hydroxypicolinic acid matrix and no analyte.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate for matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometric analysis, which comprises a surface having an array of spots, wherein each spot: comprises 3-hydroxypicolinic acid matrix and no analyte, and has an amount of the matrix resulting from deposition of a reproduced, defined and controlled 0.2 to 20 nanoliter volume of a solution comprising the matrix and an evaporating solvent. 2. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a flat surface, a flat surface with pits or a membrane. 3. The substrate of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises a membrane. 4. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises material selected from the group consisting of silica, glass, cellulose, silicon, metal, plastic, polymer and metal-grafted polymer. 5. The substrate of claim 4, wherein the substrate comprises silicon. 6. The substrate of claim 5, which is a flat silicon wafer. 7. The substrate of claim 6, wherein the silicon wafer comprises pits. 8. The substrate of claim 6, wherein the spots are about 2.25 millimeters apart. 9. The substrate of claim 6, wherein the spots are about 1.125 millimeters apart. 10. The substrate of claim 6, wherein the silicon wafer comprises a hydrophilic flat surface. 11. The substrate of claim 4, wherein the substrate comprises a metal. 12. The substrate of claim 4, wherein the substrate comprises a plastic. 13. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a metal-grafted polymer. 14. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the substrate is chemically functionalized. 15. The substrate of claim 14, wherein the substrate is chemically functionalized with beads. 16. The substrate of claim 14, wherein the substrate is chemically functionalized with a dendritic material. 17. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the solution consists essentially of the matrix and the evaporating solvent. 18. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the solution consists of the matrix and the evaporating solvent. 19. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the evaporating solvent is CH.sub.3 CN. 20. The substrate of claim 1, wherein each spot is a flat disk. 21. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the amount of matrix is reproducible from spot to spot. 22. The substrate of claim 1, wherein each spot consists essentially of matrix. 23. The substrate of claim 1, wherein each spot consists of matrix. 24. A substrate for matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometric analysis, which comprises a surface having an array of spots, wherein each spot comprises 3-hydroxypicolinic acid matrix resulting from the deposition of a reproduced, defined and controlled nanoliter scale volume and no analyte; the substrate is a flat silicon chip; and the center of each spot is about 2.25 millimeters or less from the center of an adjacent spot. 25. The substrate of claim 24, wherein each spot consists essentially of matrix. 26. The substrate of claim 24, wherein each spot consists of matrix. 27. The substrate of claim 24, wherein the silicon wafer comprises pits. 28. The substrate of claim 24, wherein the center of each spot is about 2.25 millimeters from the center of an adjacent spot. 29. The substrate of claim 24, wherein the center of each spot is about 1.125 millimeters or less from the center of an adjacent spot. 30. The substrate of claim 29, wherein the center of each spot is about 1.125 millimeters from the center of an adjacent spot. 31. The substrate of claim 29, wherein the center of each spot is about 0.5 millimeters from the center of an adjacent spot. 32. The substrate of claim 24, which comprises a hydrophilic flat surface. 