The use of microfluidic structures enables high throughput screening of protein crystallization. In one embodiment, an integrated combinatoric mixing chip allows for precise metering of reagents to rapidly create a large number of potential crystallization conditions, with possible crystal formations observed on chip. In an alternative embodiment, the microfluidic structures may be utilized to explore phase space conditions of a particular protein crystallizing agent combination, thereby identifying promising conditions and allowing for subsequent focused attempts to obtain crystal growth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a microfluidic flow channel network formed in a first elastomer layer, the microfluidic flow channel network comprising a first set of inlet branches in fluid communication with a junction and with a reagent source, a second set of inlet branches in fluid communication with the junction and with a buffer source, and a mixing structure in fluid communication with the junction and with an outlet; a first control channel network formed in a second elastomer layer adjacent to the first elastomer layer, the first control channel network adjacent to the first inlet branch set to define a first multiplexer structure configured to flow a select reagent into the junction; and a second control channel network formed in the second elastomer layer, the second control channel network adjacent to the second inlet branch set to define a second multiplexer structure configured to flow a select buffer into the junction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the junction comprises a second flow channel intersecting a first flow channel at first and second points separated by a distance. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first flow channel is branched along the distance. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mixing structure comprises a closed circuit configured to be isolated from the junction and the outlet. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mixing structure comprises a substantially circular shape. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the flow channel network further comprises an injector channel in fluid communication with the mixing structure. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second elastomer layer defines at least three control channels overlying the flow channel network to define a peristaltic pumping structure configured to flow fluid through one of the first inlet branch set, the second inlet branch set, and the closed circuit. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a sample storage structure in fluid communication with the outlet and configured to retain a sample from the mixing structure. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the sample storage structure comprises an elongated flow channel. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the elongated flow channel is dead-ended. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein an end of the elongated flow channel opposite the inlet is gated by a valve. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a multiplexer structure governing fluidic access to the elongated flow channel. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the storage structure comprises an array of storage vessels connected by rows and columns of flow channels. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the array of storage vessels comprises paired vessels in fluid communication through a valved connecting channel. 