An apparatus and process for manufacturing changes of a substrate in a work region which is 100.times.100.times.100 microns or smaller is described. The apparatus uses a plasma source adjacent to the work region to produce radiation or matter which changes the surface. An atomic force microscope or laser can be used in addition. The process and apparatus can be used to produce MEMS devices on a substrate for use in a wide variety of applications.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for manufacturing changes of a substrate which comprises: (a) providing a substrate with a surface on a stage which provides a 100.times.100.times.100 microns or smaller work region which allows positionally accurate three dimensional movements in a work environment; and (b) impinging beams of matter or radiation from an adjacent plasma source having a beam with a cross-sectional width of 100 microns or less into the work region to modify the surface of the substrate in at least one dimension. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein method of the plasma source is computer controlled. 3. An apparatus which comprises: (a) a stage for a substrate to be modified in a work region which is 100.times.100.times.100 microns or less on the substrate; and (b) a plasma source which can impinge a beam of matter or radiation from an adjacent plasma which is 100 microns or less in cross-sectional width into the work region so as to modify the surface of the substrate in at least one dimension. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein method of the plasma source is moveable and computer controlled. 5. A process for manufacturing devices by modifications of a substrate on a micron or less scale which comprises: (a) providing a substrate with a surface which provides a 100.times.100.times.100 microns work region or less on a stage of an apparatus which allows precisely accurate three dimensional movement in the work region; (b) viewing the substrate with an imaging device with a screen for visualization of the work region of the substrate in three dimensions; (c) impinging beams of matter or radiation from a plasma source adjacent to the work region having a beam cross-sectional width of 100 microns or less in width into the work region on the surface to modify the substrate in at least one dimension in the work region; and (d) viewing the modified surface of the substrate with the imaging device to determine that the substrate has been modified to provide the device. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the beam is free radicals, ions or atoms as the matter which modifies the substrate. 7. The process of claim 5 wherein the beam is from an ion or electron source which modifies the substrate. 8. The process of claim 5 wherein a laser beam is used for detecting the modification of the surface by the imaging device. 9. The process of claim 5 wherein the imaging device is an atomic force microscope with a probe contacting the surface of the substrate to determine the modifications of the substrate over time during the process. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein the probe enables manipulation of components placed on the substrate to position the components in the work region. 11. The process of claim 9 wherein the probe is used to cut into the surface of the substrate. 12. The process of claim 5 wherein the beam is a plasma which modifies the surface of the substrate by etching. 13. The process of claim 5 wherein the beam is a plasma which modifies the surface of the substrate by depositing a material on the surface from the plasma. 14. The process of claim 13 wherein the material deposited is a bonding material for a component mounted on the surface of the substrate. 15. The process of claim 5 wherein the device is a MEMS device. 16. The process of claim 5 wherein the beam is used to modify the surface to enhance visualization of the surface. 