The present invention provides sequences and reagents for preparing microarrays with internal controls. Specifically, the present invention defines and provides sequences that are not present in the hybridizing mRNA or cDNA, and therefore can be used both as hybridization controls and for inter-spot normalization.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating an alien sequence comprising steps of: A) providing a naturally-occurring sequence; B) determining one or more natural sequence statistics of the naturally-occurring sequence; C) applying a Hidden Markov Model algorithm to the one or more natural sequence statistics of the naturally-occurring sequence to generate an alien sequence, wherein the sequence statistic is selected from the group consisting of: codon occurrence, codon boundary di-nucleotide frequencies, and combinations thereof; D) generating and displaying the alien sequence, with the proviso that, at an adjustable frequency, at least one of the natural sequence statistics of the naturally-occurring sequence is switched to a sequence statistic that is inversely proportional to the natural sequence statistic, such that the alien sequence comprises intermittent highly improbable sequence patterns or subsequences throughout its length. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustable frequency comprises a frequency of about 1 in 5. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustable frequency comprises a frequency of about 1 in 10. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the alien sequence is about 50 to about 70 nucleotides in length. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustable frequency comprises a frequency between 1 in 5 and 1 in 10. 6. A method comprising steps of: A) generating an alien sequence according to claim 1, B) generate an array comprising a solid support and a plurality of nucleic acid probes attached to the solid support at discrete locations, wherein at least one of the probes is said generated alien sequences, C) providing a hybridizing mixture comprising a plurality of nucleic acids; and D) hybridizing the hybridizing mixture to a nucleic acid array. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of providing a hybridizing mixture comprises providing a mixture containing at least one anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid whose sequence comprises a sequence complementary to the alien probe. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising a step of: measuring hybridization between the anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid and the alien probe. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein: the hybridizing mixture contains both the anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid and at least one experimental hybridizing nucleic acid of unknown quantity; and the plurality of probes attached to the microarray includes at least one cognate probe whose sequence is complementary to at least part of the experimental hybridizing nucleic acid. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising a step of: measuring hybridization between the experimental hybridizing nucleic acid and the cognate probe. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising a step of: comparing the measured hybridization between the anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid and the alien probe with the measured hybridization between the experimental hybridizing nucleic acid, thereby determining how much hybridizing nucleic acid was present in the hybridizing mixture. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of providing a hybridizing mixture comprises providing a mixture containing at least one anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid whose sequence comprises a sequence complementary to the alien probe and also containing at least one experimental hybridizing nucleic acid, the method further comprising steps of: processing the hybridizing mixture such that the anti-alien and experimental hybridizing nucleic acids are simultaneously subjected to identical treatments; hybridizing the hybridizing mixture to the array; and measuring hybridization of the anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid to the alien probe such that information about efficiency or accurateness of the processing or hybridizing steps is revealed. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of providing a hybridizing mixture comprises providing a known amount of at least one anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid whose sequence comprises a sequence complementary to the alien probe, the method further comprising steps of: hybridizing the hybridizing mixture to the array; and measuring hybridization of the anti-alien hybridizing nucleic acid to the alien probe such that information about quality of the array is revealed. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of providing a hybridizing mixture does not include providing experimental hybridizing nucleic acids, and the hybridizing step is performed prior to exposing the array to experimental hybridizing nucleic acids. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one alien probe is present in each discrete location on the array. 16. The method of claim 6, wherein the adjustable frequency comprises a frequency of about 1 in 5. 17. The method of claim 6, wherein the adjustable frequency comprises a frequency of about 1 in 10. 18. The method of claim 6, wherein the alien sequence is about 50 to about 70 nucleotides in length. 19. The method of claim 6, wherein the adjustable frequency comprises a frequency between 1 in 5 and 1 in 10. 