The invention described herein provides systems and methods for multi-modal imaging with light and a second form of imaging. Light imaging involves the capture of low intensity light from a light-emitting object. A camera obtains a two-dimensional spatial distribution of the light emitted from the surface of the subject. Software operated by a computer in communication with the camera may then convert two-dimensional spatial distribution data from one or more images into a three-dimensional spatial representation. The second imaging mode may include any imaging technique that compliments light imaging. Examples include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computer topography (CT). An object handling system moves the object to be imaged between the light imaging system and the second imaging system, and is configured to interface with each system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object and including an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity, and a camera configured to capture light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity, wherein the camera is configured to capture light between about 10.sup.3 and about 10.sup.10 photons/second/centimeter squared/steradian; a second imaging system configured to provide imaging data for the internal portion of the object and having a receiving area that allows the internal portion to be imaged while the object is in the receiving area; and an object handling system for transferring the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is a magnetic resonance imaging system comprising: a tubular cavity passing through a magnetic resonance imaging magnet, the tubular cavity comprising the receiving area that receives the object while resting on a stage included in the object handling system. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising at least one processing device in logical communication with the light imaging system, in logical communication with the second imaging system, and in logical communication with the object handling system, wherein the processor combines information provided by the second imaging system with information provided by the light imaging system. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the processor combines spatial information provided by the magnetic resonance imaging system with functional information provided by the light imaging system. 5. The system of claim 2 wherein the object handling system comprises a portable stage with no metal parts. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is a computer tomography imaging system comprising: an X-ray producer configured to emit X-rays that pass through the object while resting on a portable stage included in the object handling system and positioned in the receiving area; and an array of X-ray sensors that receive the X-rays. 7. The system of claim 6 further comprising a processing device in logical communication with the light imaging system, in logical communication with the second imaging system, and in logical communication with the object handling system, wherein the processor combines spatial information provided by the computer tomography system with information provided by the light imaging system. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the processor combines three-dimensional spatial information provided by the computer tomography imaging system with three-dimensional functional information provided by the light imaging system. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the object handling system comprises a portable stage that supports the object during light imaging in the light imaging system and imaging in the second imaging system. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the object handling system is configured to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system without substantially moving the object on the portable stage. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is configured to produce spatial information for the internal portion. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the imaging chamber is configured such that the interior cavity is substantially light tight from the space outside the imaging chamber. 13. The system of claim 1 further comprising a light seal included in the object handling system that is configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber and provide a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the imaging chamber while the portable stage is within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the object handling system moves the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein an exterior wall of the imaging chamber comprises a moveable interface having: a hole that receives the portable stage therethrough a first circular bearing disposed between the exterior wall and a wall of the moveable interface and permits rotation between the exterior wall and the wall of the moveable interface; a second circular bearing that permits rotation between the wall of the moveable interface and the object handling system. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is a nuclear medicine imaging system comprising: one or more sensors that detect radioactive emissions produced by a radioactive substance within the object. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the nuclear medicine imaging system is one of a positron emission tomography system and a single photon emission computed tomography system. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein the second imaging system is a positron emission tomography system comprising: a circular gamma ray detector array, which includes a set of scintillation crystals each connected to a photomultiplier tube. 19. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is an ultrasound imaging system that comprises: a probe configured to generate sound waves that travel through the object and configured to detect reflected waves produced in the object. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the ultrasound imaging system further comprises: a processor configured to send electrical currents to the probe that determine sound wave emissions from the probe and configured to calculate a distance from the probe to a reflecting surface using a speed of sound in object. 21. A method for obtaining multiple types of imaging data for an object, the method comprising: capturing light data emitted from a light source located inside the object while the object is in the interior cavity of a light imaging system, wherein the camera is configured to capture light between about 10.sup.3 to about 10.sup.10 photons/second/centimeter squared/steradian when the light data is captured; obtaining imaging data of an integral portion of the object while the object is in a receiving area of a second imaging system; and transferring the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the transfer occurs without substantially moving the object on a portable stage that supports the object in both the interior cavity and the receiving area. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the second imaging system is a magnetic resonance imaging system. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising: combining spatial information provided by the magnetic resonance imaging system with functional information provided by the light imaging system. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising: combining three-dimensional spatial information provided by the magnetic resonance imaging system with three-dimensional functional information provided by the light imaging system. 26. The method of claim 24 further comprising: combining spatial information provided by the computer tomography imaging system with functional information provided by the light imaging system. 27. The method of claim 26 further comprising: combining three-dimensional spatial information provided by the computer tomography imaging system with three-dimensional functional information provided by the light imaging system. 28. The method of claim 21 wherein the second imaging system is a computer tomography imaging system and obtaining imaging data comprises receiving the imaging data using an array of X-ray sensors that detect the X-rays emitted from the object. 29. The method of claim 21 further comprising sealing the imaging chamber, while the portable stage is within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber, using a light seal included in the object handling system that is configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber. 30. The method of claim 21 further comprising moving the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber. 31. The method of claim 21 further comprising converting surface light image data into light data internal to the object surface to obtain a three-dimensional representation of the light source. 32. The method of claim 31 further comprising obtaining anatomical information regarding the object from the second imaging system and using the anatomical information to obtain the three-dimensional representation of the light source located inside the object. 