A canister filter for use with a swimming pool water circulation and filtration system includes a lower manifold with two pump fittings so that two pumps may be connected to one filtration canister. The canister also has an upper manifold with two fittings for connections to different main drains, an equilizer port fitting, and a relief port fitting. The canister housing may optionally contain a venturi tube that can be used to augment the suction of a single pump to allow the elimination of a second pump, or, alternatively, allow additional main drains to be added to the pool without increasing the number of pumps. The single canister filter can thus be used with two pumps and drains or two sets of drains, while providing relief in the event the drains are blocked.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A canister for use in filtering sediment from a swimming pool, said canister comprising: a housing having a top and a bottom; an upper manifold carried by said top of said housing, said upper manifold having a first drain fitting formed therein and a relief port fitting formed therein; a lower manifold carried by said bottom of said housing, said lower manifold having a first pump fitting and a second pump fitting; and a mesh bag filter carried within said housing between said upper manifold and said lower manifold so that, when said first drain fitting is connected to a source of water and said first and said second pump fittings are each connected to a pump, said pump can pump said water from said source into said first drain fitting, through said mesh bag filter and out of said first and said second pump fittings, and said mesh bag filter can filter debris from said water. 2. The canister as recited in claim 1, wherein said upper manifold has a second drain fitting formed therein. 3. The canister as recited in claim 1, wherein said upper manifold has an equilizer port fitting formed therein. 4. The canister as recited in claim 1, further comprising a venturi carried within said housing, said venturi having an inlet, an opposing outlet and a vent, said vent providing additional suction inside said housing when a fluid flows between said inlet and said outlet. 5. The canister as recited in claim 4, wherein said venturi is located below said mesh bag filter. 6. The canister as recited in claim 4 wherein said inlet of said venturi is connected to the output of said pump. 7. The canister as recited in claim 1, further comprising an end cap dimensioned to fit on and close said second pump fitting. 8. A canister for use in filtering sediment from a swimming pool, said canister comprising: a housing having a top and a bottom; an upper manifold carried by said top of said housing, said upper manifold having a first drain fitting, a second drain fitting, and a relief port fitting formed therein; a lower manifold carried by said bottom of said housing, said lower manifold having a first pump fitting and a second pump fitting; and a mesh bag filter carried within said housing between said upper manifold and said lower manifold so that, when said first drain fitting is connected to a source of water and said first and said second pump fittings are each connected to a pump, said pump can pump said water from said source into said first drain fitting, through said mesh bag filter and out of said first or said second pump fittings, and said mesh bag filter can filter debris from said water. 9. The canister as recited in claim 8, wherein said upper manifold has an equilizer port fitting formed therein. 10. The canister as recited in claim 8, further comprising a plenum carried by said upper manifold for permitting access to said mesh bag filter. 11. A canister for use in filtering sediment from a swimming pool, said canister comprising: a housing having a top and a bottom and an interior; an upper manifold carried by said top of said housing, said upper manifold having a drain fitting formed therein; a lower manifold carried by said bottom of said housing, said lower manifold having a pump fitting; a mesh bag filter carried within said housing between said upper manifold and said lower manifold so that, when said drain fitting is connected to a source of water and said pump fitting is connected to a pump, said pump can pump said water from said source into said drain fitting, through said mesh bag filter and out of said pump fitting, and said mesh bag filter can filter debris from said water as said water passes through said interior of said housing; and a venturi carried within said housing, said venturi having an inlet, an opposing outlet and a vent to said interior of said housing, said venturi providing additional suction to said interior of said housing when a fluid flows between said inlet and said outlet. 12. A water circulation system for use with a swimming pool, said canister comprising: a main drain; a pump having a pressure side and a suction side; a canister in fluid communication with said pump and said main drain, said canister including a housing having a top and a bottom and in interior, an upper manifold carried by said top of said housing, said upper manifold having a drain fitting formed therein and connected to said main drain, a lower manifold carried by said bottom of said housing, said lower manifold having a pump fitting connected to said suction side of said pump, a venturi carried within said housing, said venturi having an inlet, an opposing outlet and a vent, said vent providing additional suction inside said housing when a fluid flows between said inlet and said outlet, and a mesh bag filter carried within said housing between said upper manifold and said lower manifold so that said pump can pump said water from said main drain into said drain fitting, through said mesh bag filter and out of said pump fitting to said suction side of said pump, said mesh bag filtering debris from said water as said water passes within said interior of said housing, and said pump can pump water from said pressure side of said pump through said inlet of said venturi to said outlet of said venturi, thereby increasing suction inside said housing via said vent. 