Techniques are described for control of a robot system, wherein the robot system includes a plurality of individual wheeled robot modules interconnected by at least one compliant member. The technique includes developing a kinematic control model of the robot system from a combination of the kinematic characteristics of the individual wheeled robot modules and the stiffness properties of the compliant member. Development of the kinematic control model for a reconfigurable robot system is enhanced by the scalable nature of the technique.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling motion of a robot system wherein the robot system includes a plurality of individual wheeled robot modules interconnected by at least one partially compliant member, the method comprising: developing at least one scalable kinematic model corresponding to one of the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules; deriving a system kinematic model of the robot system based on a combination of the at least one scalable kinematic model and stiffness properties of the at least one partially compliant member; and steering the robot system by dynamically controlling torque applied to wheels on the plurality of wheeled robots to bend the at least one partially compliant member in a desired direction based on dynamic changes in the system kinematic model that occur as the at least one partially compliant member flexes wherein the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules are under control of an electronics system using the system kinematic model. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein developing at least one scalable kinematic model comprises developing a single scalable kinematic model corresponding to a plurality of substantially identical individual wheeled robot modules. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein developing at least one scalable kinematic model comprises developing N scalable kinematic models corresponding to N different individual wheeled robot module configurations. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein deriving a system kinematic model of the robot system further comprises forming a frame stiffness matrix wherein the frame stiffness matrix represents coupling between the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules through the at least one partially compliant member. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein steering robot system further comprises maximizing wheel traction forces. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein steering the robot system further comprises sensing a relative posture of the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein steering the robot system further comprises maintaining a predefined mechanical constraint on the at least one partially compliant member. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the predefined mechanical constraint is to limit force applied to the at least one partially compliant member to a bending force. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising moving the individual wheeled robot modules in accordance with the planned motions to move the robotic system. 10. A method of controlling motion of a robot system wherein the robot system includes a plurality of individual wheeled robot modules interconnected by at least one partially compliant member, the method comprising developing a kinematic model of the robot system for steering the robot system by dynamically controlling torque applied to wheels on the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules to flex the at least one partially compliant member in a desired direction based on dynamic changes in the system kinematic model, the method being implemented within an electronics system. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising accounting for force-deflection coupling between the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules through the at least one partially compliant member. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising accounting for post-buckling force-deflection of the compliant member. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising adjusting planned motions of the plurality of individual wheeled robot modules based on sensed deflection in the compliant member. 14. The system of claim 10, further comprising executing the individual wheeled robot module motion commands to move the robotic system. 