A method for concurrent data migration includes classifying files to be migrated into plural jobs, selecting media to which to migrate each job, and using plural drives concurrently to write the jobs to the media. The selection of a medium is performed in a way that prevents the number of writeable media from exceeding the number of available drives, unless no allocated medium has sufficient space to store any files in a migration job. A medium is preferentially selected that has already been allocated for writing, has space to store at least one file in the job, is not in use for another job, and can be robotically mounted on a drive. If such a medium-does not exist, then the set of available media is canvassed to locate an alternative medium.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of managing a plurality of data storage media, each of said media being designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, said method comprising: designating a quantity of said plurality of media as being in the writeable state, said quantity being equal to a concurrency value; determining that none of the media designated in the writeable state has sufficient space to store specified data; designating an additional one of said plurality of media as being in the writeable state whereby the aggregate number of media in the writeable state exceeds said concurrency value; and writing said specified data to the additional medium, wherein said plurality of media comprise double-sided media, each side of the double-sided media being separately designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, and wherein said determining act comprises: determining that no side of said plurality of media is in the writeable state and has sufficient space to store said specified data; and wherein said designating act comprises: identifying one of said double-sided media having a first side in the non-writeable state and having a second side whose state has not been designated; and designating said second side as being in the writeable state. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said act of determining that none of the media designated in the writeable state has sufficient space to store said specified data comprises: retrieving, from a database, a record corresponding to each medium in the writeable state, said database storing a record corresponding to each of said media that is in either the writeable state or the non-writeable state, each of said records indicating for each medium that is in the writeable state the amount of space available for writing on said medium; and comparing the amount of free space indicated by each record with the size of said specified data. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said plurality of media includes one or more non-designated media that are not in either the writeable state or the non-writeable state, and wherein said database does not contain entries for said non-designated media. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of media are mountable on one or more drives, said drives being associated with a device, said device having a library which stores media and a robotic mechanism which mounts media stored in said library on said drives, and wherein said determining act comprises: determining that none of said plurality of media in the writeable state located within said device has sufficient space to store said specified data; and determining that none of said plurality of media located outside of said drive device is in the writeable state. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said concurrency value is equal to a number of drives that are available for the migration of data. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said specified data comprises a plurality of data objects, and wherein said method further comprises persisting in a memory the locations on which each of said data objects is stored. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more data objects to be stored on said media. 8. A computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions to perform a method of managing a plurality of data storage media, each of said media being designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, said method comprising: designating a quantity of said plurality of media as being in the writeable state, said quantity being equal to a concurrency value; determining that none of the media designated in the writeable state has sufficient space to store specified data; designating an additional one of said plurality of media as being in the writeable state whereby the aggregate number of media in the writeable state exceeds said concurrency value; and writing said specified data to the additional medium, wherein said plurality of media comprise double-sided media, each side of the double-sided media being separately designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, and wherein said determining act comprises: determining that no side of said plurality of media is in the writeable state and has sufficient space to store said specified data; and wherein said designating act comprises: identifying one of said double-sided media having a first side in the non-writeable state and having a second side whose state has not been designated; and designating said second side as being in the writeable state. 9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein said act of determining that none of the media designated in the writeable state has sufficient space to store said specified data comprises: retrieving, from a database, a record corresponding to each medium in the writeable state, said database storing a record corresponding to each of said media that is in either the writeable state or the non-writeable state, each of said records indicating for each medium that is in the writeable state the amount of space available for writing on said medium; and comparing the amount of free space indicated by each record with the size of said specified data. 10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein said plurality of media includes one or more non-designated media that are not in either the writeable state or the non-writeable state, and wherein said database does not contain entries for said non-designated media. 11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein said plurality of media are mountable on one or more drives, said drives being associated with a device, said device having a library which stores media and a robotic mechanism which mounts media stored in said library on said drives, and wherein said determining act comprises: determining that none of said plurality of media in the writeable state located within said device has sufficient space to store said specified data; and determining that none of said plurality of media located outside of said drive device is in the writeable state. 12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein said concurrency value is equal to a number of drives that are available for the migration of data. 13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein said specified data comprises a plurality of data objects, and wherein said method further comprises persisting in a memory the locations on which each of said data objects is stored. 14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises: identifying one or more data objects to be stored on said media. 15. A method of storing a quantity of data on one of a plurality of media, each of said media being designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, said method comprising: determining that the number of said media in a writeable state is greater than or equal to a first number; determining whether any of said media in a writeable state have sufficient space to store said data; if any of said media in a writeable state have sufficient space to store said data, writing said data to a first of said media in the writeable state; and if none of said media in said writeable state have sufficient space to store said data: identifying a second medium, said second medium not being designated as being in either the writeable state or the non-writeable state; designating said second medium as being in the writeable state; and writing said data to said second medium, wherein said media comprise double-sided media, each of the double-sided media being separately designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, wherein a determination as to none of said media in said writeable state having sufficient space to store data is made by performing acts comprising: determining that no side of said plurality of media is in the writeable state and has sufficient space to store said specified data; and wherein said designating act comprises: identifying one of said double-sided media having a first side in the non-writeable state and having a second side whose state has not been designated; and designating said second side as being in the writeable state. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: determining that said first medium is presently in use for the reading and writing of data; and waiting for said first medium to become available prior to writing said data to said first medium. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said first medium is presently in use for the reading or writing of data, and wherein said waiting act comprises: waiting for said use to complete. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said second medium comprises the second side of a medium having a first and a second side, said first side being in the non-writeable state and said second side not being designated as being in either the writeable or non-writeable state. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said first number comprises a number of drives available for writing data onto media. 20. A computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions for performing a method of storing a quantity of data on one of a plurality of media, each of said media being designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, said method comprising: determining that the number of said media in a writeable state is greater than or equal to a first number; determining whether any of said media in a writeable state have sufficient space to store said data; if any of said media in a writeable state have sufficient space to store said data, writing said data to a first of said media in the writeable state; and if none of said media in said writeable state have sufficient space to store said data: identifying a second medium, said second medium not being designated as being in either the writeable state or the non-writeable state; designating said second medium as being in the writeable state; and writing said data to said second medium, wherein said media comprise double-sided media, each of the double-sided media being separately designatable as being in a writeable state or a non-writeable state, wherein a determination as to none of said media in said writeable state having sufficient space to store data is made by performing acts comprising: determining that no side of said plurality of media is in the writeable state and has sufficient space to store said specified data; and wherein said designating act comprises: identifying one of said double-sided media having a first side in the non-writeable state and having a second side whose state has not been designated; and designating said second side as being in the writeable state. 21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises: determining that said first medium is presently in use for the reading and writing of data; and waiting for said first medium to become available prior to writing said data to said first medium. 22. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein said first medium is presently in use for the reading or writing of data, and wherein said waiting act comprises: waiting for said use to complete. 23. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein said second medium comprises the second side of a medium having a first and a second side, said first side being in the non-writeable state and said second side not being designated as being in either the writeable or non-writeable state. 24. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein said first number comprises a number of drives available for writing data onto media. 