A substrate protection and transport system and method for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool. The system includes one or more removable substrate transport cassettes that support a substrate. The cassette can include a base portion and top portion, and can include a seal. Each cassette has at least one vent and at least one filter. The system further includes a box having a base and lid. The box holds one or more cassette-substrate arrangements. A storage rack having shelves for holding the box-cassette-substrate arrangement is also provided. Further, an entry-exit module having a loadlock is provided for transitioning the cassette-substrate arrangement from atmospheric pressure to vacuum. The entry-exit module can include a shuttle and/or elevator for transporting the cassette-substrate arrangement. During transitioning, the filter(s) and vent(s) restrict particles within the loadlock from entering the cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate transport system for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool, comprising: one or more removable substrate transport cassettes, each removable substrate transport cassette having at least one vent and at least one filter, and each removable substrate transport cassette supporting one substrate forming a cassette-substrate arrangement, wherein said at least one filter and said at least one vent are located opposite a patterned side of the substrate; a box having a base and a lid, wherein said box holds one or more of said cassette-substrate arrangements, forming a box-cassette-substrate arrangement; a first storage rack having one or more shelves for holding said box-cassette-substrate arrangement; and an entry-exit module having a loadlock that transitions said cassette-substrate arrangement from atmospheric pressure to vacuum, said at least one vent and said at least one filter restricting particles within said loadlock from entering said cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate. 2. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein said entry-exit module further comprises an atmospheric de-podder. 3. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein said entry-exit module further comprises an elevator that raises and lowers said cassette-substrate arrangement. 4. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein said entry-exit module further comprises a shuttle that engages said cassette-substrate arrangement and transports said cassette-substrate arrangement into said loadlock. 5. The substrate transport system of claim 1, further comprising a process chamber that receives said cassette-substrate arrangement after said cassette-substrate arrangement has been transitioned to vacuum. 6. The substrate transport system of claim 5, further comprising a second storage rack within said process chamber, said second storage rack having a plurality of shelves to store said cassette-substrate arrangement. 7. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein each removable substrate transport cassette compnses: a base portion and a top portion; one or more base portion locators disposed within said base portion that supports one or more lower corners of the substrate; and one or more upper portion locators disposed within said top portion in which one or more upper corners of the substrate are fitted. 8. The substrate transport system of claim 7, wherein each removable substrate transport cassette further comprises a seal that seals said base portion and said top portion after the substrate has been positioned within the removable substrate transport cassette. 9. The substrate transport system of claim 8, wherein said seal is permeable to gases but substantially impermeable to particles. 10. The substrate transport system of claim 8, wherein said seal is comprised of a raised surface with protruding concentric vertical flanges that fit into one or more corresponding grooves on said top portion. 11. The substrate transport system of claim 8, wherein said seal is impermeable to gases and substantially impermeable to particles. 12. The substrate transport system of claim 8, wherein said seal is an O-ring elastomer seal. 13. The substrate transport system of claim 7, wherein each removable substrate transport cassette further comprises an edge band surrounding one or more side edges of said base portion, wherein said edge band impedes the migration of particles from outside the removable substrate transport cassette to inside and further wherein said edge band provides a surface to support said top portion. 14. A method for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool, comprising: (a) loading the substrate into a removable substrate transport cassette to produce a cassette-substrate arrangement, such that at least one vent and at least one filter of said removable substrate transport are located opposite a patterned side of the substrate; (b) loading said cassette-substrate arrangement into a box to produce a box-cassette-substrate arrangement, said box comprised of a base and a lid; (c) transporting said box-cassette-substrate arrangement to a shelf of a first storage rack; (d) transporting said box-cassette-substrate arrangement out of vacuum from said first storage rack to an entry-exit module; (e) unlatching a lid of said box from a base of said box; (f) lowering said base on an elevator, said base supporting said cassette-substrate arrangement; (g) engaging said cassette-substrate arrangement with a shuttle; (h) using said shuttle to transport said cassette-substrate arrangement into a loadlock; and (i) transitioning said loadlock from atmospheric pressure to vacuum, wherein during transitioning, said at least one vent and said at least one filter restrict particles within said loadlock from entering said cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising transporting said cassette-substrate arrangement from said loadlock to a process chamber after completing said transitioning step (i). 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising storing said cassette-substrate arrangement on a shelf in a second storage rack located within said process chamber. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said storing step comprises inserting said cassette-substrate arrangement so that an edge band of said removable substrate transport cassette is above a set of ledges associated with a shelf of an in-vacuum library. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising lowering said removable substrate transport cassette so that a base portion of said removable substrate transport cassette rests on a surface of said shelf and a top portion of said removable substrate transport cassette rests on said set of ledges associated with said shelf. 19. A substrate transport system for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool, comprising: one or more removable substrate transport cassettes, each removable substrate transport cassette having a base portion and a top portion, each removable substrate transport cassette having at least one vent and at least one filter, and each removable substrate transport cassette supporting one substrate forming a cassette-substrate arrangement; a box having a base and a lid, wherein said box holds one or more of said cassette-substrate arrangements, forming a box-cassette-substrate arrangement; a first storage rack having one or more shelves for holding said box-cassette-substrate arrangement; an entry-exit module having a loadlock that transitions said cassette-substrate arrangement from atmospheric pressure to vacuum, said at least one vent and said at least one filter restricting particles within said loadlock from entering said cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate; a process chamber that receives said cassette-substrate arrangement after said cassette-substrate arrangement has been transitioned to vacuum; and a second storage rack within said process chamber, said second storage rack having a plurality of shelves with associated sets of ledges, wherein the removable substrate transport cassette can be stored on a particular shelf by resting the top portion of the removable substrate transport cassette on a set of ledges associated with the particular shelf and lowering the base portion of the removable substrate transport cassette onto a surface of the shelf. 20. A method for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool, comprising: (a) loading the substrate into a removable substrate transport cassette to produce a cassette-substrate arrangement, wherein said removable substrate transport cassette has at least one vent and at least one filter; (b) loading said cassette-substrate arrangement into a box to produce a box-cassette-substrate arrangement, said box comprised of a base and a lid; (c) transporting said box-cassette-substrate arrangement to a shelf of a first storage rack; (d) transporting said box-cassette-substrate arrangement out of vacuum from said first storage rack to an entry-exit module; (e) unlatching a lid of said box from a base of said box; (f) lowering said base on an elevator, said base supporting said cassette-substrate arrangement; (g) engaging said cassette-substrate arrangement with a shuttle; (h) using said shuttle to transport said cassette-substrate arrangement into a loadlock; (i) transitioning said loadlock from atmospheric pressure to vacuum, wherein during transitioning, said at least one vent and said at least one filter restrict particles within said loadlock from entering said cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate; (j) transporting said cassette-substrate arrangement from said loadlock to a process chamber; (k) storing said cassette-substrate arrangement on a shelf in a second storage rack located within said process chamber, wherein storing comprises inserting said cassette-substrate arrangement so that an edge band of said removable substrate transport cassette is above a set of ledges associated with a shelf; and (l) lowering said removable substrate transport cassette so that a base portion of said removable substrate transport cassette rests on a surface of said shelf and a top portion of said removable substrate transport cassette rests on said set of ledges associated with said shelf. 