A pick up and delivery system for use with mobile robots which have a body with a horizontal upper surface and at least one vertical side. The robot has at least one shelf, each of which contains a stop bar containing a retaining device. The system further uses multiple stations, each of which contain at least one pallet retaining surface to contain at least two pallets. The pallet retaining surfaces are provided with a holding device at the pick up area and a holding device at the delivery area. Pallets are used to retain the items being transferred with each of the pallets having a securing device that interacts with the holding device and retaining device. The strength of the holding device at the pick up area is less than the holding device at the delivery area, with the robot's retaining device having a strength between the strength of the holding devices. The mobile robot picks up a pallet from a first station, and delivers the pallet to a second station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pick up and delivery system for use with at least one mobile robot traveling on a surface, said system comprising: at least one fixed station, said at least one fixed station having a pick up position and a delivery position, said pick up position having: at least one pallet holding member, said at least one pallet holding member being affixed to said pick up position, and said delivery position having: at least one pallet delivery member, said at least one pallet delivery member being affixed to said delivery position; said at least one mobile robot having at least a first retaining member and a second retaining member; and at least one pallet, said at least one pallet having a first end and a second end and a length segment between said first and second ends, said first end having a first securing member and said second end having a second securing member, wherein: said first securing member adapted to interact with said at least one pallet holding member and said at least one pallet delivery member, and said second securing member adapted to interact with said first retaining member and said second retaining member, and wherein: said first retaining member interacts with said second securing member to remove said at least one pallet from said at least one pallet holding member and retain said at least one pallet on said first retaining member, and said delivery member interacts with said first securing member to remove said at least one pallet from said second retaining member and retain said at least one pallet on said at least one delivery member. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one pallet holding member, said first and second pallet securing members and said first and second retaining members are magnets. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one pallet holding member and said first and second securing members are hooks and said first and second retaining members are hook receiving members. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said at least one fixed station further comprises a locking member, said locking member locking said at least one pallet onto said hooks until unlocked by said at least one mobile robot or a user. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said at least one mobile robot further comprises a lock releasing member, said lock releasing member unlocking said locking member to permit said at least one robot to remove said at least one pallet. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one pallet holding member, said first and second securing members and said first and second retaining members are hook and loop material. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said surface is at least substantially horizontal and wherein said pallet length segment is at least substantially parallel to said surface. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said surface is at least substantially horizontal and wherein said pallet length segment is at least substantially perpendicular to said surface. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one robot simultaneously picks up one said at least one pallet from said at least one fixed station and delivers another said at least one pallet to said at least one fixed station. 