An automated process for performing MEMS packaging including automatically attaching a die to a chip carrier, resulting in a chip carrier assembly, automatically moving the chip carrier assembly into a vacuum chamber, wherein the vacuum chamber includes one or more lids therein, automatically securing a lid to the chip carrier assembly within the vacuum chamber, thereby forming a packaged die, and automatically removing the packaged die from the vacuum chamber. Unique vacuum chambers suitable for MEMS packaging are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for packing a die, comprising: automatically attaching a die to a chip carrier, resulting in a chip carrier assembly; automatically moving the chip carrier assembly into a vacuum chamber, wherein the vacuum chamber includes one or more lids therein; automatically securing a lid to the chip carrier assembly within the vacuum chamber, thereby forming a packaged die; and automatically removing the packaged die from the vacuum chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the chip carrier assembly is automatically moved into one of two or more vacuum chambers, depending on availability. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the automatically attaching a die to a chip carrier step includes: automatically moving a chip carrier to a first station, wherein a die attach material is applied to at least part of the chip carrier; and automatically moving a chip carrier to a second station, wherein a die is brought into engagement with the die attach material. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the automatically attaching a die to a chip carrier step further includes: automatically providing wire bonds between one or more pads on the die to one or more pads on the chip carrier. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the first station includes a wire bonding machine. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the second station includes an automatic component assembly machine. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of automatically providing a solder ring to the chip carrier before automatically moving the chip carrier assembly into the vacuum chamber. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the solder ring is automatically provided by an automatic component assembly machine. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the chip carrier assembly is automatically provided to a queuing device prior to automatically moving the chip carrier assembly into the vacuum chamber. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the vacuum chamber includes a lid handler. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the lid handler includes a heater for heating the lids. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the lids include a getter, and the lid handler heater is used to activate the lid getter. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of automatically moving the chip carrier assembly into the vacuum chamber is performed by a robot. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of automatically securing the lid to the chip carrier assembly within the vacuum chamber includes the steps of applying heat and pressure. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of automatically securing the lid to the chip carrier assembly within the vacuum chamber includes holding the lid with a lid handler. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of heating the lid handler to heat the lid prior to the step of automatically securing the lid to the chip carrier assembly within the vacuum chamber. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the lid includes a getter, and the heating step heats the lid handler sufficiently to activate the getter. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of automatically removing the packaged die from the vacuum chamber is performed by a robot. 19. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of heating the chip carrier assembly in the vacuum chamber to a first temperature for a bake out time. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the lids include a getter, the method further comprising the step of heating the lids in the vacuum chamber to a second temperature. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of: automatically moving the chip carrier assembly from the vacuum chamber to a second vacuum chamber after the chip carrier assembly is heated for the bake out time. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the lids include a getter, the method further comprising the step of heating the lids in the second vacuum chamber to a second temperature before the chip carrier assembly is automatically moved into the second chamber. 