The present invention is a method and apparatus for the automatic loading and advancement of component feeder tape in a component feeder for use with a pick-and-place system. The feeder employs sensing technology to determine when a component tape leader is inserted into a tape guide, and subsequently auto-loads the feeder with the tape, including initiating the peeling of cover tape. Subsequently, the feeder operates to sense the presence of parts or components in the component tape pockets and to advance the component tape to a position where the first component is presented at the pick location. The feeder is also capable of detecting repeatable features in the component tape in order to automatically determine the component tape pitch.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatically loading a component tape into a component tape feeder, comprising; detecting, the insertion of a leading edge of a component tape, into a tape guide; in response to detecting the insertion of the leading edge of the component tape, self-threading the component tape into a cover tape removal position; automatically initiating removal of a cover tape, from the surface of the component tape, to expose components therein, wherein removal of the cover tape involves self-threading the cover tape into a first drive nip; advancing the component tape into a second tape drive nip, wherein the component tape is self threaded into the second drive nip; detecting the spacing of pockets in the component tape and the presence of components in the pockets; and advancing the component tape into a pickup location, where a first pocket having a component detected therein is positioned at the pickup location for retrieval. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising disposing of a removed cover tape by advancing the removed cover tape into a reservoir in conjunction with the self-threaded removal of the cover tape. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically calculating the component tape pitch as a function of the motion of the tape through the second drive nip, and in response to the detected spacing of pockets, said tape pitch being generally constant over the length of the component tape. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein commencing self-threading feeding operation further comprises: successively responding to the retrieval of a component from the pickup location; and advancing the component tape a distance equal to the tape pitch. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising discharging a depleted component tape; detecting at least one empty pocket near an end of a component tape; signaling the end of the component tape; and self-threading a new component tape from a new tape reel, into the component tape feeder to minimize an interruption in the cycle time of the feeder. 6. A method of operating a component tape feeder in an auto-loading mode comprising the steps of: detecting the insertion of a component tape into a tape guide; in response to detecting the insertion of the component tape, automatically advancing, with a first component tape drive nip, the component tape to a cover tape removal position; initiating the removal of a cover tape from the surface of the component tape to expose components therein; automatically advancing the component tape to a second tape drive nip; detecting the spacing of pockets in the component tape and the presence of components in the pockets; automatically advancing the component tape to a pickup location, where a first pocket having a component present therein is positioned at the pickup location for retrieval; automatically calculating the component tape pitch as a function of detected spacing of pockets; automatically comparing a first component tape pitch of a newly loaded component tape with a second component tape pitch of an immediately preceding tape; and signaling a validation error if the first and second component tape pitches are not equal to one another. 7. A method of operating a component tape feeder in an auto-loading mode, comprising the steps of: detecting the insertion of a component tape into a tape guide; in response to detecting the insertion of the component tape, automatically advancing, with a first component tape drive nip, the component tape to a cover tape removal position; automatically initiating the removal of a cover tape from the surface of the component tape to expose components therein; automatically advancing the component tape to a second tape drive nip; detecting the spacing of pockets in the component tape and the presence of components in the pockets; automatically advancing the component tape to a pickup location, where a first pocket having a component present therein is positioned at the pickup location for retrieval; and requiring a validation signal, indicating that the component tape is a valid component tape, prior to the step of automatically advancing the component tape to a pickup location. 8. A method of operating an auto-loading component tape feeder and automatically calculating the component tape pitch of a component tape in the feeder, comprising the steps of: advancing the component tape under the control of a component tape drive, said drive being driven by a stepper motor where each step is known to correspond to a particular linear displacement of the component tape; self-threading the component tape to a location where a cover tape is separated from the component tape; while advancing the component tape, monitoring a sensor capable of detecting the presence of a repeatable feature of the component tape at a spacing equivalent to the pitch of the component tape; and in response to the detection of a first and subsequent repeatable feature by the sensor, determining the intervening linear displacement of the component tape by the component tape drive in order to automatically calculate the component tape pitch. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the repeatable feature is a pocket edge. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the repeatable feature is a pocket hole. 11. A method of operating an auto-loading component tape feeder, comprising the steps of: self-threading a first component tape to a location where a cover tape is separated from the component tape; detecting the presence of a component in each pocket of a first component tape; energizing a component tape drive to advance the first component tape a distance equal to the distance between the last component picked and the next component in the first component tape; detecting at least one empty pocket at an end of the first component tape; signaling the end of the first component tape; and in response to the end of the first component tape, self-threading a second component tape to a pickup location for retrieval, so as to avoid an interruption in the cycle time of the feeder. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of detecting a component in each pocket further includes: receiving, from a component sensor positioned for determining the presence of a component in each of the plurality of pockets, signals indicating the presence of a component in a pocket; and using said signals to control the component tape drive and to assure continuous advancement of components at said pickup location. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the component sensor generates said signal as a function of a variable eddy current in response to the presence of a component. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting a component in a pocket further includes; using a toroid inductor having a gap containing a non-magnetic material therein, generating a magnetic field; canceling the magnetic field, about the gap, generated by the toroid; and detecting the presence of a component in proximity of the gap, in response to a change in the inductance of the toroid. 15. A method of self-threading component tape onto component tape feeder, comprising; inserting a component tape into a portion of a tape feeder; engaging the component tape within a transport mechanism of the tape feeder without any operator intervention within the feeder; and self-threading the component tape to a location where a cover tape is separated from the component tape to reveal components for retrieval. 