Fast and highly accurate mass spectrometry-based processes for detecting a particular nucleic acid sequence in a biological sample are provided. Depending on the sequence to be detected, the processes can be used, for example, to diagnose a genetic disease or chromosomal abnormality; a predisposition to a disease or condition, infection by a pathogenic organism, or for determining identity or heredity.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process for determining the order of base specifically terminated nucleic acid fragments of a target nucleic acid molecule, comprising the steps of: a. obtaining a nucleic acid molecule, comprising the target nucleic acid sequence and, at one end, a tag; b. generating base specifically terminated nucleic acid fragments from the target nucleic acid; and c. analyzing the fragments by a mass spectrometry format, thereby determining the order of the base specifically terminated nucleic acid fragments in the target nucleic acid molecule. 2. A process of claim 1, wherein in step b), a nuclease is contacted with the target nucleic acid to generate the base specifically terminated nucleic acid fragments. 3. A process of claim 2, wherein the nuclease is a restriction enzyme that can recognize and cleave at least one restriction site in the target nucleic acid. 4. A process of claim 2, wherein the target nucleic acid is a deoxyribonucleic acid and the nuclease is a deoxyribonuclease. 5. A process of claim 2, wherein the target nucleic acid is a ribonucleic acid and the nuclease is a ribonuclease. 6. A process of claim 5, wherein the ribonuclease is selected from the group consisting of: the G-specific T.sub.1 ribonuclease, the A-specific U.sub.2 ribonuclease, the A/U specific PhyM ribonuclease, the U/C specific ribonuclease A, the C-specific chicken liver ribonuclease and crisavitin. 7. A process of claim 1, wherein in step b), the base specifically terminated nucleic acid fragments are generated by performance of a combined amplification and base-specific termination reaction, wherein a first polymerase facilitates amplification and a second polymerase facilitates termination. 8. A process of claim 7, wherein the combined amplification and base-specific termination reaction is performed using a first polymerase, which has a relatively low affinity towards at least one chain terminating nucleotide, and a second polymerase, which has a relatively high affinity towards at least one chain terminating nucleotide. 9. A process of claim 8, wherein the first and second polymerases are thermostable DNA polymerases. 10. A process of claim 9, wherein the thermostable DNA polymerases are selected from the group consisting of: Taq DNA polymerase, AmpliTaq FS DNA polymerase, Deep Vent (exo-) DNA polymerase, Vent DNA polymerase, Vent (exo.sup.-) DNA polymerase, Vent DNA polymerase, Vent (exo.sup.-) DNA polymerase, Deep Vent DNA polymerase, Thermo Sequenase, exo(-) Pseudococcusfiuriosus (Pfu) DNA polymerase, AmpliTaq, Ultman, 9 degree Nm, Tth, Hot Tub, Pyrococcus furiosus (Pfu) and Pyrococcus woesei (Pwo) DNA polymerase. 11. A process of claim 1, wherein the base specifically terminated nucleic acid fragments generated in step b) include mass modified nucleotides. 12. A process of claim 1, wherein the tag comprises a 3' tag. 13. A process of claim 1, wherein the tag comprises a 5' tag. 14. A process of claim 12 or 13, wherein the tag is a non-natural tag. 15. A process of claim 14, wherein the non-natural tag is selected from the group consisting of: an affinity tag and a mass marker. 16. A process of claim 15, wherein the affinity tag facilitates immobilization of the nucleic acid to a solid support. 17. A process of claim 16, wherein the affinity tag is biotin or a nucleic acid sequence that binds to a capture nucleic acid sequence that is bound to a solid support. 