The invention is directed to data cartridges including a plurality of data storage disks. The invention applies the multi-disk data cartridges to a "jukebox" system in which one of the data cartridges is inserted into a computing device that de-cartridges and positions the data storage disks on one or more disk drives for reading or recording. A multi-disk data cartridge may comprise a cartridge housing with dimensions that conform to a magnetic tape cartridge housing standard form factor. The data cartridges may include blue disk media, such as Blu-Ray and HD-DVD. In order to integrate blue disk media into the data cartridge described herein, the blue disk media may comprise dimensions that conform to a non-standard blue disk form factor. In other cases, a cartridge housing may conform to a non-standard form factor based on dimensions of a standard form factor blue disk.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A data cartridge comprising: a cartridge housing; a spindle within the cartridge housing; and a plurality of data storage disks stacked on the spindle in the cartridge housing, wherein the cartridge housing is configured to be opened by a computing device when the data cartridge is inserted into the computing device so that the computing device can unspindle the plurality of data storage disks. 2. The data cartridge of claim 1, wherein the cartridge housing comprises dimensions that substantially conform to a form factor of a cartridge housing standard. 3. The data cartridge of claim 2, wherein the cartridge housing conforms to a 9940 cartridge form factor. 4. The data cartridge of claim 2, wherein the cartridge housing conforms to a linear tape-open (LTO) cartridge form factor. 5. The data cartridge of claim 2, wherein the cartridge housing conforms to a digital linear tape (DLT) cartridge form factor. 6. The data cartridge of claim 1, wherein the disks within the data cartridge collectively define a storage capacity greater than approximately 200 gigabytes. 7. The data cartridge of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data storage disks comprise optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head. 8. The data cartridge of claim 7, wherein the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head substantially conform to a form factor of a disk standard including a diameter of approximately 120 mm and a thickness of approximately 1.2 mm including a cover layer. 9. The data cartridge of claim 7, wherein the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head conform to one of a Blu-Ray standard or an HD-DVD standard. 10. The data cartridge of claim 7, wherein the optical disk media compatible with a blue laser drive head substantially conform to a form factor including a diameter between approximately 120 mm and 93 mm and a thickness between approximately 1.2 mm and 0.4 mm. 11. The data cartridge of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of blue disks do not include a cover layer. 12. The data cartridge of claim 7, wherein the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head comprise 1-layer, 2-layer, 4-layer, or 8-layer blue disks. 13. The data cartridge of claim 1, wherein the cartridge housing comprises a cartridge shell and a base, wherein the computing device unlocks the cartridge shell from the base and drops the base and the data storage disks out of the cartridge shell. 14. The data cartridge of claim 1, wherein the cartridge housing comprises a cartridge shell and a cover affixed to the cartridge shell via a corner pivot mechanism, wherein the computing device pivots the cover about the corner pivot mechanism to expose the data storage disks stacked within the cartridge shell. 15. A system comprising: a data cartridge with a cartridge housing that encloses a plurality of optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head, wherein the cartridge housing comprises a spindle and the plurality of optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head are stacked on the spindle; a computing device that receives the data cartridge and opens the cartridge housing to expose the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head; and a plurality of disk drive stations within the computing device, wherein the computing device positions different ones of the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head in the disk drive stations to read data from the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive head or write data to the optical disk media compatible with a blue-laser drive bead. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the cartridge housing comprises dimensions that substantially conform to a form factor of a cartridge housing standard. 17. A data cartridge comprising: a cartridge housing substantially conforming to a form factor of a standard data storage tape cartridge and defining an inner dimension within the cartridge housing less than approximately 120 millimeters that prohibits a 120 millimeter diameter disk from fitting within the housing; and a plurality of data storage disks stacked in the cartridge housing, the data storage disks having diameters of approximately 80 millimeters and being compatible with a blue-laser drive head, wherein the cartridge housing comprises a spindle and the plurality of disks are stacked on the spindle, and wherein the cartridge housing is configured to be opened by a computing device when the data cartridge is inserted into the computing device so that the computing device can unspindle the plurality of data storage disks. 