A weather strip installation device for mechanically installing weather strip along the opening of a vehicle door is disclosed. The device includes a frame outlining said opening, and a plurality of contact pads enclosing the frame. A selectively movable unit is disposed between the frame and the contact pads, wherein the selectively movable unit is operable to push each of the contact pads outwardly from the frame. In the first preferred embodiment the movable unit is a plurality of expandable bladders disposed between the contact pads and the peripheral edge of the frame. In the second preferred embodiment, the movable unit is an extensible arm rotatably attached to the frame. The extensible arm includes a roller disposed between the frame and contact pads that presses against the contact pads thereby installing the weather strip along the opening of the door as the extensible arm rotates about the frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A weather strip installation device for installing weather strip along the opening of a vehicle door, the opening including a lining for receiving the weather strip, the weather strip installation device comprising: a frame having a peripheral edge, said frame for supporting the device within the opening of the vehicle door; a plurality of contact pads enclosing said frame; and a plurality of paired links pivotably coupled together and enclosing said frame, said plurality of paired links supporting each of said plurality of contact pads, wherein each one of said plurality of paired links is spaced apart from the other, and each one of said plurality of contact pads is disposed between each of said paired links to enclose said frame; a selectively movable unit mounted to the peripheral edge of the frame, wherein said selectively movable unit pressing each of said plurality of contact pads against the weather strip thereby installing the weather strip along the opening of the vehicle door. 2. A device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said frame defining an inner circumference and said frame including a frame support extending across said inner circumference of said frame to help the frame maintain its shape. 3. A device as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of contact pads having a groove extending along the exterior surface of the contact pad, wherein the groove centers the weather strip along the opening of the vehicle door. 4. A device as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of contact pads are arranged adjacent to each other. 5. A device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said frame further including a bracing arm disposed, said bracing arm extending outwardly from said frame and engaging a door mounting structure adjacent the opening of the vehicle door, such as a door hinge or a striker, thereby bracing said weather strip installation device within said door opening. 6. A device as set forth in claim 5 further wherein said selectively movable unit being a plurality of expandable bladders disposed between said contact pads and said peripheral edge of said frame, wherein each of said plurality of expandable bladders pressing said plurality of contact pads against said weather strip thereby installing said weather strip along the opening of the vehicle door. 7. A pressing system as set forth in claim 6 wherein each of said plurality of expandable bladders are adjacent to the other and said plurality of expandable bladders are sequentially expandable such that each of said plurality of bladders expand and deflate in an undulating manner. 8. A device as set forth in claim 5 wherein said selectively movable unit being an extensible arm having a roller disposed between said peripheral edge of said frame and said plurality of contact pads, said extensible arm rotatably attached to said frame, wherein said extensible arm is moveable along a path defined by said opening of said door and pressing said roller against each of said plurality of contact pads thereby installing said weather strip along the opening of said door. 9. A device as set forth in claim 8 wherein said extensible arm further including a piston, said piston pressing said roller against said plurality of contact pads as said extensible arm travels along said path thereby installing said weather strip along said opening of said door. 10. A device as set forth in claim 5 wherein said frame further including a plurality of extendable members, each of said plurality of extendable members attached to one of said plurality of contact pads and pressing said one of said plurality of contact pads against the opening of said door to help secure said device within said opening. 11. A device as set forth in claim 5 wherein said frame further including a frame arm support for supporting the device in such a manner as to facilitate the placement of the device within the opening of the vehicle door. 