A method of making an article having both a polymeric substrate and a metallic spray deposited layer is disclosed. The coefficients of thermal expansion of the polymeric substrate and the metallic layer are preferably similar.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of making an article comprising: providing a substrate being at least partially constructed of a polymeric material, said substrate having an active surface; spray depositing a first metal layer on said active surface by making at least one pass with at least one spray gun so that at least some of the metal is captured in small pockets formed in the polymeric material of said substrate; and spray depositing a second metal layer on said first metal layer, the second metal layer being selected from the group consisting of nickel, aluminum, stainless steel, silver, gold or copper, wherein the polymeric material of said substrate and the metal of said first metal layer have the same coefficient of thermal expansion. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of roughening said active surface to form the small pockets prior to said spray depositing step. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein said roughening step includes sandblasting. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the polymeric material comprises an epoxy and carbon/graphite fibers embedded therein, and the first metal layer comprises a nickel and iron composition having approximately 30-42% by weight nickel. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the polymeric material comprises an epoxy and carbon/graphite fibers embedded thereon, and the first metal layer comprises a nickel and iron composition having approximately 36% by weight nickel. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first metal layer extends approximately between 0.040-0.060 inches above said active surface. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein said substrate is cylindrically shaped. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said spraying step includes spraying the first metal layer around a circumference and at least partially along a length of said active surface. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said spraying step includes rotating said substrate. 10. A method of making an article comprising: providing a substrate being at least partially constructed of a polymeric material, said substrate having an active surface and the polymeric material being an epoxy with carbon/graphite fibers embedded therein; and spray depositing a first metal layer on said active surface by making at least one pass with at least one spray gun so that at least some of the metal is captured in small pockets formed in the polymeric material of said substrate, the first metal layer including a nickel and iron composition having approximately 36% by weight nickel, wherein the polymeric material of said substrate and the metal of said first metal layer have the same coefficient of thermal expansion. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising the step of roughening said active surface to form the small pockets prior to said spray depositing step. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein said roughening step includes sandblasting. 13. The method according to claim 10, further comprising the step of spray depositing a second metal layer on said first metal layer. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the second metal layer is selected from the group consisting of nickel, aluminum, stainless steel, silver, gold or copper. 15. The method according to claim 10, wherein the first metal layer extends approximately between 0.040-0.060 inches above said active surface. 16. The method according to claim 10, wherein said substrate is cylindrically shaped. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein said spraying step includes spraying the first metal layer around a circumference and at least partially along a length of said active surface. 18. The method according to claim 10, wherein said spraying step includes rotating said substrate. 