A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for a server device, which stores one or more webpages for commanding and/or controlling the server device, to communicate with a client device in a home network, the method comprising: receiving a first request signal requesting service device characteristic data, wherein the first request signal is generated by the client device; sending the server device characteristic data to the client device in response to the first request signal, wherein the server device characteristic data includes one or more properties of the server device; receiving a second request signal requesting a first web page stored in the server device, wherein the second request signal is generated by the client device in response to the server device characteristic data; and sending the first web page to the client device in response to the second request signal, wherein the first web page is a top-level page for commanding and/or controlling the server device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device comprises a home device and includes at least one controllable function. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: creating a menu for selecting said server device among a plurality of server devices to activate said controllable function; and displaying said menu on a browser based device. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said menu comprises a web page including at least one hypertext link to the web page contained within said server device. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein: creating the menu further includes dynamically creating the device link page from the home network, and associating a hypertext link with each device control, wherein the hypertext link provides a link to at least one type of graphical and textual information contained in the server device and associated with the device control; and displaying said menu includes displaying said device link page. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said device link page comprises a first web page or a first html page including at least one hypertext link to a second web page or a second html page contained within said server device. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said device link page comprises a first web page or a first html page including at least one hypertext link to a second web page or a second html page contained within said server device. 8. The method of claim 2, further including detecting whether the server device is currently connected to the home network. 9. The method of claim 2, further including detecting an active status of the server device currently connected to the home network. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein upon said server device being powered on a unique IP address for said server device is generated. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the client device is a web browser device. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a network address of the first web page. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a device ICON image which represents a particular type of the server device. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a device ICON image which represents a particular state of the server device. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a device LOGO image which represents a manufacturer of the server device. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a command and/or control signal which is generated by the client device in response to the first web page; and performing a controllable function which corresponds to the command and/or control signal. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a third request signal requesting a second web page stored in the server device, wherein the third request signal is generated by the client device in response to the first web page; and sending the second web page to the client device in response to the third request signal, wherein the second web page includes additional information about the server device, wherein the first web page includes at least one hypertext link to the second web page. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving a command and/or control signal which is generated by the client device in response to the second web page; and performing a controllable function which corresponds to the command and/or control signal. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the client device creates and displays a third web page which represents a list of server devices connected to the network, and the third web page is a device link page which includes at least one hypertext link to the first web page. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device stores one or more control states of the server device. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device characteristic data includes one or more capabilities of the server device. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the server device characteristic data includes data specification associated with the one or more capabilities of the server device. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving a command and/or control signal which is generated by the client device in response to the one or more capabilities of the server device; and performing a controllable function which corresponds to the command and/or control signal, wherein the command and/or control signal includes information about a second server device, and the controllable function includes communicating with the second server device using the information about the second server device. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the information about the second server device includes one or more capabilities of the second server device and data specification associated with the one or more capabilities of the second server device. 25. A server device, which stores one or more webpages for commanding and/or controlling the server device, to communicate with a client device in a home network, the server device comprising: a physical layer configured for: receiving a first request signal requesting service device characteristic data, wherein the first request signal is generated by the client device; sending the server device characteristic data to the client device in response to the first request signal, wherein the server device characteristic data includes one or more properties of the server device; receiving a second request signal requesting a first web page stored in the server device, wherein the second request signal is generated by the client device in response to the server device characteristic data; and sending the first web page to the client device in response to the second request signal, wherein the first web page is a top-level page for commanding and/or controlling the server device. 26. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device comprises a home device and includes at least one controllable function. 27. The server device of claim 25, wherein upon said server device being powered on a unique IP address for said server device is generated by a configuration manager. 28. The server device of claim 25, wherein the client device is a web browser device. 29. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a network address of the first web page. 30. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a device ICON image which represents a particular type of the server device. 31. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a device ICON image which represents a particular state of the server device. 32. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device characteristic data includes a device LOGO image which represents a manufacturer of the server device. 33. The server device of claim 25, the physical layer further operates for: receiving a command and/or control signal which is generated by the client device in response to the first web page; and performing a controllable function which corresponds to the command and/or control signal. 34. The server device of claim 25, wherein the physical layer further operates for: receiving a third request signal requesting a second web page stored in the server device, wherein the third request signal is generated by the client device in response to the first web page; and sending the second web page to the client device in response to the third request signal, wherein the second web page includes additional information about the server device, wherein the first web page includes at least one hypertext link to the second web page. 35. The server device of claim 34, wherein the physical layer further operates for: receiving a command and/or control signal which is generated by the client device in response to the second web page; and performing a controllable function which corresponds to the command and/or control signal. 36. The server device of claim 25, wherein the client device dynamically creates and displays a third web page which represents a list of server devices connected to the network, and the third web page is a device link page which includes at least one hypertext link to the first web page. 37. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device stores one or more control states of the server device. 38. The server device of claim 25, wherein the server device characteristic data includes one or more capabilities of the server device. 39. The server device of claim 38, wherein the server device characteristic data includes data specification associated with the one or more capabilities of the server device. 40. The server device of claim 38, wherein the physical layer further operates for: receiving a command and/or control signal which is generated by the client device in response to the one or more capabilities of the server device; and performing a controllable function which corresponds to the command and/or control signal, wherein the command and/or control signal includes information about a second server device, and the controllable function includes communicating with the second server device using the information about the second server device. 41. The server device of claim 40, wherein the information about the second server device includes one or more capabilities of the second server device and data specification associated with the one or more capabilities of the second server device. 