The present invention provides a robot for use inside an open abdominal cavity during minimally-invasive surgery. The robot may include various sensors, imaging devices or manipulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: (a) a body sized to operate within a cavity of an animal; (b) a translational mobility component coupled with the body; (c) a motor coupled with the translational mobility component; (d) a power supply coupled with the motor; (e) a controller component coupled with the body; wherein the robot is configured to apply translational pressure on any a surface for purpose of mobility or immobility. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the mobility component comprises at least one wheel. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the mobility component comprises a first wheel and a second wheel, wherein the first and second wheels are configured to rotate independently of each other. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein the body has a substantially cylindrical shape. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the body is shaped substantially like a cylinder, sphere, snake, or small vehicle. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein the robot is configured to travel forward and backward along a path that is perpendicular to the length of the body. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller is wirelessly coupled with the motor. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises a wireless transmitter and wherein the robot further comprises a wireless receiver. 9. The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller is physically coupled with the motor. 10. The robot of claim 1, wherein the cavity is an abdominal cavity. 11. The robot of claim 1, wherein the cavity is a peritoneal cavity. 12. The robot of claim 10, wherein the peritoneal cavity has been insufflated with a gas. 13. The robot of claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical component comprises a manipulator device. 14. The robot of claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical component comprises a sensor device. 15. The robot of claim 1, wherein the at least one surgical component comprises a manipulator device and a sensor device. 16. A mobile robot comprising: (a) a body sized to operate within a cavity of an animal, the body comprising a single axle; (b) first and second mobility components coupled to the single axle, the first and second mobility components configures for translational movement; (c) at least one motor coupled with the first and second mobility components; (d) a power supply coupled with the at least one motor; (e) a controller component coupled with the at least one motor; and (f) at least one surgical component coupled with the body. 17. The robot of claim 16, wherein the at least one motor is configured to independently propel each of the first and second mobility components, whereby the body can be steered. 18. The robot of claim 16, wherein the robot is capable of changing direction with a zero radius turn. 19. The robot of claim 16, wherein the robot is configured to apply translational pressure on a surface for purpose of mobility or immobility. 20. The robot of claim 16, wherein the cavity is an abdominal cavity. 21. The robot of claim 16, wherein the cavity is a peritoneal cavity. 