A system and method of fabricating tank car outer jackets are provided that include supporting a plurality of coils of sheet metal on a plurality of coil supports such that the central longitudinal axes of the plurality of coils are generally parallel to a central longitudinal axis of a mandrel adjacent the plurality of coils. A plurality of sheets of sheet metal are unwound from the plurality of coils by rotating each of the plurality of coils generally about the respective central longitudinal axes of each of the plurality of coils. As the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel, adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are welded together using a plurality of automated welding torches proximate the mandrel. The plurality of automated welding torches may be coupled for communication with a programmable logic controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating tank car outer jackets, comprising: supporting a plurality of coils of sheet metal on a plurality of coil supports such that the central longitudinal axes of the plurality of coils are generally parallel to a central longitudinal axis of a mandrel adjacent the plurality of coils; unwinding a plurality of sheets of sheet metal from the plurality of coils by rotating each of the plurality of coils generally about the respective central longitudinal axes of each of the plurality of coils; winding the plurality of sheets of sheet metal onto the mandrel; welding together adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal, using a plurality of automated welding torches proximate the mandrel, as the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel; and the plurality of automated welding torches being coupled for communication with a programmable logic controller. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel at the same time. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising cutting portions from one or more of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal using a plurality of automated cutting torches as the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of automated cutting torches are coupled for communication with the programmable logic controller. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising welding and cutting sections of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal before the sections of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal contact the mandrel. 6. The method of claim 3, further comprising cutting sections of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal after the sections of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal have contacted the mandrel. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising welding together adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal after the sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal contact the mandrel. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising arranging the plurality of coil supports such that adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal overlap as the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising holding overlapping sections of the adjacent sheets of sheet metal together, using a plurality of tensioning wheels proximate the plurality of automated welding torches, as the overlapping sections of the adjacent sheets of sheet metal are welded together. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sensing that at least one of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal is not properly aligned with the mandrel using a coil alignment sensor; the coil alignment sensor being coupled for communication with an actuator of the one of the plurality of coil supports corresponding to the at least one of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal; adjusting the alignment of the at least one of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal as the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel by activating the actuator; and the actuator being operable to move the one of the plurality of coil supports corresponding to the at least one of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal along a track to which the one of the plurality of coil supports is coupled. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising compressing the ends of each of the plurality of coils approximately perpendicular to the respective longitudinal axis of each of the plurality of coils to prevent each of the plurality of coils from expanding along the respective longitudinal axis of each of the plurality of coils as the plurality of coils are rotated on the plurality of coil supports. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: unwinding the welded plurality of sheets of sheet metal from the mandrel; and cutting portions from the welded plurality of sheets of sheet metal using a plurality of automated cutting torches as the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are unwound from the mandrel. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising continuing winding the plurality of sheets of sheet metal onto the mandrel and welding together adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal until a length of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal wound onto the mandrel is sufficient to form at least two tank car outer jackets. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising arranging the plurality of coil supports such that adjacent edges of adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal abut as the plurality of sheets of sheet metal are wound onto the mandrel. 15. A method of fabricating tank car outer jackets, comprising: coupling a plurality of sheets of sheet metal to an elongate tubular mandrel; each of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal being adjacent and touching at least one other of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal such that the plurality of sheets of sheet metal form a continuous width of sheet metal; rotating the mandrel approximately one revolution about a central longitudinal axis of the mandrel; welding each of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal together with adjacent sheets of the plurality of sheets of sheet metal using a plurality of welding torches; and wherein the rotating and welding occur at the same time such that a welded length of the continuous width of sheet metal corresponding to a circumference of the mandrel results. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: cutting portions from the plurality of sheets of sheet metal using a plurality of cutting torches; and wherein the cutting occurs at the same time as the rotating and welding such that a welded and cut tank car outer jacket results. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising controlling the rotating, welding, and cutting using a programmable logic controller coupled for communication with the mandrel, the plurality of welding torches, and the plurality of cutting torches. 