An apparatus for precisely steering a beam of light by making use of a hybrid inter optical alignment that occurs when a beam steering mechanism is micro-machined with respect to a crystallographic orientation of a substrate.
Claims I claim: 1. A micro-machined optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a single substrate having one or more cavities formed within said substrate's upper surface; a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam along a primary optical axis; a micro-machined cavity formed in a portion of said substrate upper surface that is in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a means for controllably altering direction and optical properties of said beam provided within said micro-machined cavity, wherein said means comprises: a gimbaled micro-optical element nested into one or more sets of gimbaled hinge means, wherein each set of gimbaled hinge means defines an independent axis of rotation of said gimbaled micro-optical element with respect to a frame holding an outermost set of said gimbaled hinge means and said outermost frame is connected at one edge with an upper surface of said substrate by a cantilever hinge means; a plurality of independently addressable electrodes disposed for positioning said gimbaled micro-optical element; a plurality of electrical lines in direct electrical communication with said independently addressable electrodes; and an electronic control means in communication with said electrical lines, such that said gimbaled micro-optical element is electrically driven to a predetermined angular orientation with respect to said outer most frame. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a secondary optical element means for accommodating a beam of light, said secondary optical element means disposed adjacent to said micro-machined cavity; an alignment means for aligning said secondary optical element adjacent to said micro-machined cavity, such that the secondary optical element is substantially centered above the micro-machined cavity and the optical axis of the secondary optical element is aligned to a predetermined angle with respect to a surface normal emanating from and upper surface of said substrate. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electronic control means applies a time varying voltage potential on said electrical lines. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electronic control means applies a time varying current on said electrical lines. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the gimbaled hinge means is a cantilever hinge. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the gimbaled hinge means is a torsion hinge. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is an optical grating. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is a partial mirror. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is a refractive element. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is a partially reflecting dielectric stack. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is an optical element with electrically controllable reflectivity. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is an electrically controllable optical element. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein conductive lines are provided across said gimbaled hinges and are in direct communication with said micro-optical element. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is partially transmissive. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a fiber optic waveguide is disposed adjacent to said micro-machined cavity. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the micro-optical element is a polarizing element. 17. A projection apparatus comprising: an adjacent grouping of two or more independently controllable optical beam steering apparatuses according to claim 1; and a plurality of light sources to provide said light beam for each said optical beam steering apparatus. 18. An apparatus according to claim 17 wherein each said light source provides an independent wavelength. 19. A projection apparatus comprising: an adjacent grouping of two or more independently controllable optical beam steering apparatuses according to claim 2; and a plurality of light sources to provide said light beam for each said optical beam steering apparatus. 20. An apparatus according to claim 19 wherein each said light source provides an independent wavelength. 