A system for automated excision of one or more samples from a sample media, including by using a device for electronically capturing one or more traits of samples in the media, using a microprocessor linked to the device to analyze the captured traits by comparison to reference databases, identifying samples of interest at location coordinates in the sample media, and automatically excising and processing the samples through the use of a novel robotic excision tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automated excision of one or more samples from a sample media, comprising: a device for electronically capturing one or more traits respectively associated with one or more samples present in a sample media, a microprocessor for analyzing one or more of the electronically captured traits of one or more of said samples, and a robotic excision tool for excision of at least one sample from the sample media, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to excise at least one sample from the sample media based on one or more of the electronically captured traits of the sample. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to deposit the excised sample into a sample receptacle. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the electronically captured traits comprise one or more location coordinates for the sample in the sample media. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to excise the sample at the location coordinates for the sample. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample media is located on a substrate. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the substrate, the sample media, or both contain reference marks. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample media comprises a two-dimensional electrophoresis gel sample. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises biomolecules. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein electronic capture of one or more traits comprises scanning a sample media to generate image data with respect to one or more samples, comparing one or more aspects of said image data against a database of image data, and as a result of said comparison, generating location coordinate data for a sample in the sample media. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to excise at least one sample from the sample media based on the location coordinate data. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to irrigate the sample media with fluid from a fluid reservoir. 12. A system of claim 1, wherein the robotic excision tool has an excision cutting tip that is interchangeable and has means to grip and eject the interchangeable tip and the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to grip and eject the interchangeable tip. 13. A system for automated excision of one or more samples from a sample media, comprising: a microprocessor for analyzing one or more electronically captured traits respectively associated with one or more samples present in a sample media, and a robotic excision tool for excision of at least one sample from the sample media, wherein the microprocessor is provided with one or more electronic traits associated with a sample and commands the robotic excision tool to excise the sample from the sample media based on one or more of the electronically captured traits. 14. A method for automating the excision of one or more samples from a sample media, comprising the steps of: providing a robotic excision tool for excision of at least one sample from the sample media, providing a microprocessor for analyzing one or more electronically captured traits of one or more of said samples, the microprocessor operable in conjunction with the robotic excision tool, and electronically capturing one or more traits respectively associated with one or more samples present in the sample media and providing such traits to the microprocessor, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to excise at least one sample from the sample media based on one or more of the electronically captured traits of one or more of the samples. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the steps of: comparing one or more of the captured traits against a database of reference traits, as a result of such comparison, selecting a sample of interest from one or more samples present in the sample media, establishing location coordinates of said sample, and providing such location coordinates to the microprocessor, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to excise said sample from the sample media based on one or more of the location coordinates of said sample. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the sample media is located on a substrate. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the substrate, the sample media, or both contain reference marks. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the sample media comprises a two-dimensional gel electrophoresis sample. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein the sample comprises biomolecules. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to irrigate the sample media with fluid from a fluid reservoir. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein the robotic excision tool has an excision cutting tip that is interchangeable and has means to grip and eject the interchangeable tip and the microprocessor commands the robotic excision tool to grip and eject the interchangeable tip. 