An improved cleaning fluid supply housing assembly for a cascade-type substrate scrubber having a sliding piston configured with a flange with recesses so that the piston is out of contact with the rotating part of the brush core mandrel bearing assembly. Rather, the piston flange outer face only contacts the stationary outer race of the mandrel bearing. The water supply piston is also configured with a full bore to minimize the pressure on the end of the mandrel. A tolerance-controlled leak through the bearing is provided by the configuration of the piston flange to provide a flushing of the area in which wear might be a source of particle generation by a controlled tolerance leak upstream of the brushes. These features substantially eliminate the source of particle generation from contact wear and the contribution of such wear particles into the interface between the brush and the substrate surface being cleaned.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An improved irrigation seal assembly for a cascade-type substrate scrubber comprising in operative combination: a) an idler bearing housing including sequential stepped bores, a first large bore for receiving an idler bearing and a smaller bore for receiving a piston, and a cleaning/rinsing fluid input port; b) a slideable piston having a cylindrical body sized for sliding fit in said piston bore, and a disk-shaped flange at one end sized to fit in said idler bearing bore; i) said piston having a central bore; and ii) said flange having at least one recess in the outer face; c) an idler bearing having an inner, rotatable race into which a brush mandrel is securable, and an outer, stationary race that is received in said idler bearing bore of said housing; d) a mandrel securable in said bearing inner race for retaining cleaning brushes, having a central bore for fluid conduit to irrigate said brushes from the inside out; e) said flange recess is positioned coordinate with the end of said mandrel to provide a controlled tolerance gap between the outer face of said flange and the end of said mandrel, said piston central bore is substantially equal to the bore of said mandrel bore, and said flange marginal edge contacts the outer stationary race of said idler bearing so that pressure on said piston bears only on said outer race; and f) said housing piston bore is axially longer than said piston to permit said piston to slide from an operating position adjacent the end of said mandrel to a retracted position to permit removal of said mandrel. 2. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 1 wherein said flange recess provides clearance between said flange and said idler bearing inner race so that the tolerance gap provides a controlled leak of cleaning fluid from said piston bore out said bearing to divert wear particulates away from said mandrel fluid conduit bore. 3. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 2 wherein said idler bearing outer race surface is concave to permit angular motion of said mandrel when removing said mandrel from said housing idler bearing bore. 4. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 2 wherein said piston bore includes a recess at its bottom to permit fluid pressure to cause said piston to move into said operating position from said retracted position. 5. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 4 wherein said housing input port includes a radial bore communicating with said piston bore. 6. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 5 wherein said piston end opposite said flange is chamfered to said piston bore. 7. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 2 wherein said flange recess is stepped. 8. Improved irrigation seal assembly as in claim 2 wherein said housing includes a seal member for sealing said housing in a scrubber assembly sump. 