An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part including a part support, a sprayer, a part measurer including a digital camera and a display device, all of which are positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures at least two dimensions of the section. The digital camera takes at least one picture of the entire section of the part while the part is being coated and enables a user to accurately determine the cross section of the part to the optimum finished part configuration and size and also detect defects, blemishes or coating irregularities formed on the section. The apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts, the number of defective parts and increases the overall efficiency.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a part measurer including at least one digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support such that the at least one digital camera is external to a part supported by the part support, wherein the at least one digital camera is operable with a processor to take at least one dimension measurement of a section of the part supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer while the sprayer applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said at least one dimension measurement of the section and a desired dimension of the section of the part. 2. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras. 3. The coating apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least two of the digital cameras are operable to take digital pictures of the section being coated. 4. The coating apparatus of claim 2, wherein the digital cameras are operable to take at least one digital picture of different planes of the section being coated. 5. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one digital camera is operable to take digital pictures of different planes of the section of the part being coated. 6. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part measurer includes a laser generator and a laser receiver. 7. The coating apparatus of claim 6, wherein the laser generator is positioned adjacent to one side of the part support and said laser receiver is positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the part support. 8. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one digital camera is selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, a digital television camera and a DVT camera. 9. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one digital camera is mounted on a movable support. 10. The coating apparatus of claim 9, wherein the movable support is rotatable. 11. The coating apparatus of claim 1, which includes at least one shield connected to the part support. 12. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 13. The coating apparatus of claim 1, which includes a plurality of sprayers. 14. The coating apparatus of claim 1, which includes a display device operable to display at least one of said measurements of the section of the part. 15. The coating apparatus of claim 14, wherein the display device is operable to display a digital motion picture of the section of the part as the section of the part is being coated by the sprayer. 16. The coating apparatus of claim 14, wherein the display device is operable to display a digital picture of the section of the part as the section of the part is being coated by the sprayer. 17. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part is selected from the group consisting of: round parts, tapered parts, beveled parts, threaded parts and angled parts. 18. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sprayer includes at least one powder coating sprayer operable to apply a layer of powder coating to the section of the part. 19. The coating apparatus of claim 18, wherein the powder coating sprayer is operable to apply a plurality of layers of powder coating to the section of the part. 20. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sprayer includes at least one electrostatic sprayer operable to electrostatically apply at least one layer of coating to the section of the part. 21. The coating apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sprayer is operable to apply at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 22. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a part measurer including at least one digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support such that the at least one digital camera is external to a part supported by the part support, wherein the at least one digital camera is operable with a processor to take at least one dimension measurement of at least two different portions of a section of the part supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer while the sprayer applies an amount of coating to said section of the part based on said at least one dimension measurement of the section and a desired dimension of the section. 23. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras. 24. The coating apparatus of claim 23, wherein at least two of the digital cameras are operable to take pictures of different portion of the section of the part. 25. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the at least one digital camera is selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, a digital television camera and a DVT camera. 26. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the at least one digital camera is mounted on a movable support. 27. The coating apparatus of claim 26, wherein the movable support is rotatable. 28. The coating apparatus of claim 22, which includes a display device operable to display a digital motion picture of the section of the part as the section of the part is being coated by the sprayer. 29. The coating apparatus of claim 22, which includes a display device operable to display a digital picture of the section of the part as the section of the part is being coated by the sprayer. 30. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the part is selected from the group of parts consisting of: round parts, tapered parts, beveled parts, threaded parts and angled parts. 31. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the sprayer includes at least one powder coating sprayer operable to apply a layer of powder coating to the section of the part. 32. The coating apparatus of claim 31, wherein the powder coating sprayer is operable to apply a plurality of layers of powder coating to the section of the part. 33. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the sprayer includes at least one electrostatic sprayer operable to electrostatically apply at least one layer of coating to the section of the part. 34. The coating apparatus of claim 22, wherein the sprayer is operable to apply at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 35. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support configured to support a part; a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support, the laser generator being operable to project a laser beam onto a section of the part supported by the part support, said laser receiver operable to receive the laser beam to take a dimension measurement of said section of the part; a digital camera positioned adjacent to the part support such that the digital camera is external to the part supported by the part support, wherein the digital camera is operable with a processor to take at least one dimension measurement of the section of the part being coated; and a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support, said sprayer operable to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said at least one dimension measurement of the section and a desired dimension of the section of the part. 36. The coating apparatus of claim 35, wherein the digital camera is selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, digital television camera and a DVT camera. 37. The coating apparatus of claim 35, which includes at least one additional digital camera. 38. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer including at least one digital camera, a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure dimensions of at least two different portions of a section of a part which is supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer while the sprayer applies an amount of coating to said section of the part based on said dimension measurements of the section and a desired dimension of the section; and said laser generator and laser receiver are each being mounted in a housing, each said housing including a protective device, at least one of the protective devices including a protective material provider and a protective material receiver, wherein a protective material is attached to the protective material provider and the protective material receiver. 39. The coating apparatus of claim 38, wherein the digital camera is one of the digital cameras selected from the group consisting of: a digital motion picture camera, a digital television camera and a DVT camera. 40. The coating apparatus of claim 38, wherein the digital camera includes a movable support. 41. The coating apparatus of claim 40, wherein the support is rotatable. 42. The coating apparatus of claim 38, which includes a display device operable to display a digital motion picture of the part as the part is being coated by the sprayer. 43. The coating apparatus of claim 38, which includes a display device operable to display a digital picture of the part as the part is being coated by the sprayer. 44. The coating apparatus of claim 38, wherein the protective material provider includes a first roller and the protective material receiver includes a second roller. 45. The coating apparatus of claim 38, wherein the protective material includes a transparent film. 46. The coating apparatus of claim 38, wherein the protective material receiver includes an actuator, wherein the protective material receiver is rotatably connected to the actuator. 47. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer including a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure dimensions of a section of a part which is supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer while the sprayer applies an amount of coating to said section of the part based on said dimension measurements of the section and a desired dimension of the section; and said laser generator and laser receiver are each being mounted in a housing, each said housing including a protective device, at least one of the protective devices including a protective material provider and a protective material receiver, wherein a protective material is attached to the protective material provider and the protective material receiver. 48. The coating apparatus of claim 47, wherein the protective material provider includes a first roller and the protective material receiver includes a second roller. 49. The coating apparatus of claim 47, wherein the protective material includes a transparent film. 50. The coating apparatus of claim 47, wherein the protective material receiver includes an actuator, wherein the protective material receiver is rotatably connected to the actuator. 51. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer including a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure dimensions of a section of a part which is supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer, wherein the sprayer is operable to apply an amount of coating to said section of the part based on said dimension measurements of the section and a desired dimension of the section; and said laser generator and laser receiver are each being mounted in a housing, each said housing including a protective device, at least one of the protective devices including a protective material provider and a protective material receiver, wherein a protective material is attached to the protective material provider and the protective material receiver. 52. The coating apparatus of claim 51, wherein the protective material provider includes a first roller and the protective material receiver includes a second roller. 53. The coating apparatus of claim 51, wherein the protective material includes a transparent film. 54. The coating apparatus of claim 51, wherein the protective material receiver includes an actuator, wherein the protective material receiver is rotatably connected to the actuator. 