The present invention provides novel microfluidic devices and methods for preventing/ameliorating formation of precipitate blockages in microfluidic devices. In particular the devices and methods of the invention utilize microchannels of specific cross-sectional configuration and of specific arrangement as well as application of AC current orthogonal to the direction of fluid flow, in order to preventing/ameliorating formation of precipitate blockages in microfluidic devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic device which is structurally configured to reduce precipitate blockage in a microchannel of the device, comprising: a) a first microchannel comprising a first region upstream of one or more second region, which second region is upstream of one or more third region, which second region comprises a greater cross-sectional area than the first region or the third region; b) at least a second microchannel, which second microchannel fluidly intersects with the second region of the first microchannel; c) a source of a first fluidic material, which source is fluidly coupled to the first microchannel; d) a source of a second fluidic material, which source is fluidly coupled to the second microchannel, wherein the first and second fluidic materials form a precipitate when mixed; e) a fluid direction system which, during operation of the device, controllably moves the first fluidic material through the first microchannel and the second fluidic material through the second microchannel into the second region of the first microchannel thereby forming a mixture and a precipitate in the second region of the first microchannel which precipitate is present at a concentration which does not inhibit flow of the mixture into the third region of the microchannel. 2. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the first fluidic material comprises DMSO. 3. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second fluidic material comprises a buffer. 4. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second fluidic material comprises water. 5. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second region of the first microchannel is at least 2 times or more greater in cross-sectional area than the first or third region of the first microchannel. 6. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second region of the first microchannel is at least about 5 times or more greater in cross-sectional area than the first or third region of the first microchannel. 7. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second region of the first microchannel is at least about 10 times or snore greater in cross-sectional area than the first or third region of the first microchannel. 8. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second region of the first microchannel is at least about 15 times or more greater in cross-sectional area than the first or third region of the first microchannel. 9. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the second region of the first microchannel is at least about 20 times or more greater in cross-sectional area than the first or third region of the first microchannel. 10. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the cross-sectional area of the second region is great enough to prevent precipitate blockage of the microchannel by the precipitate concentration. 11. The microfluidic device of claim 1, the device further comprising wherein the first microchannel is structurally configured to permit application of an AC electric field orthogonal to a direction of fluid flow in the first microchannel. 