The device comprises an autoclave (1), a solvent tank or bottle (2), a tank (3) for gravity collection and cooling of the residual solution arriving form autoclave (1) for its later recovery, a dosification tank for concentrated reagent (4), dosed according to the weight of cellulosic material treated, a tank (5) which is connected by quick sockets to the system in order to recharge tank (2), a compressor unit (C), a refrigeration system (R) and a vacuum pump (8). The described system is controlled by a programmable robot aided by a screen on which are selected the stages of the procedure and the type of procedure itself, according to the amount of cellulosic materials to be treated, forming a transportable unit, and to a certain extent a portable one.
Claims I claim: 1. A device for mass deacidification, elimination of free acidity and disinfestation of cellulosic materials comprising an autoclave with pressure and temperature control, and capable of receiving the cellulosic materials to be treated; a solvent bottle fluidly connected to the autoclave; a first loading cell receiving the solvent bottle and programmed to determine the amount of solvent for each process; a dosification tank in fluid communication with the autoclave containing a concentrated reagent and capable of introducing the correct amount of reagent depending on the weight of the material to be treated; and a tank for gravity collection of the residual solution arriving from the autoclave for its subsequent recovery wherein the residual solution collection tank has a heating system for heating to distill the solvent contained in the residual solution. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the residual solution collection tank has a refrigeration system used during emptying of autoclave. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the connection between autoclave and the residual solution collection tank can be opened and closed by a manual or an automatic valve. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the solvent bottle has an external refrigeration system or a heating system. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the solvent bottle has a refrigeration system comprising a hermetic compressor, a condenser and a refrigerating jacket which envelopes the top part of solvent bottle. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the device has a de-icing system to eliminate frost on the jacket covering the solvent bottle which forms during the distillation process, comprising a fan driven by a motor and a heating resistance. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the device has a valve in said jacket for automatic outlet of condensates. 8. The device of claim 4, wherein the device has a heat exchanger connected to the solvent bottle and the residual solution collection tank which optimizes the refrigeration of the solvent bottle and uses the heat generated to heat the residual solution collection tank. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the residual solution collection tank has an inlet for a cleaning fluid, selected from the group consisting of anhydrous n-propanol, and air. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the residual solution collection tank has an evacuation valve for the suspension formed after the distillation process. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein a vacuum pump is connected to the autoclave. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has a second loading cell on which is placed the dosification tank of concentrated reagent. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has a programmable robot for controlling the processes of the unit automatically. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the device has a touch screen from which the type and stages of the process may be selected according to the amount of material to be treated. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the device has a series of pneumatic valves (NV1, NV2, NV3, NV4, NV5, NV6, NV7, NV8) controlled by the robot and activated by the touch screen connected to the robot. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the device has a set of electrovalves (EV1, EV2) which open or close passages in several stages of the process. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has a series of manual valves (VM1, VM2, VM3, VM4, VM5, VM6, VM7, VM8, VM9, VM10) related to maintenance, replacing liquids or inlet of reagents and solvent. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has a recharging bottle connected to the system for recharging the solvent bottle according to the losses caused during the process. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein the autoclave has a lid with a hermetic seal, a pressure gauge, a safety valve, a temperature control thermocouple inside the autoclave, a pressure and vacuum measurement system, an external temperature control gauge and heating bands on the outside wall of autoclave. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has as safety measures a safety valve in the upper section of the solvent bottle and a safety valve in the upper part of residual solution collection tank. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein the device has a filter indicating humidity absorption in a connection duct between the solvent bottle to the autoclave. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein the dosification tank of concentrated reagent is connected to the autoclave so that the correct amount of concentrated reagent passes directly to the autoclave where the final desired concentration will be later obtained by direct conduction of solvent from the solvent bottle to the inner chamber of the autoclave. 23. The device of claim 22, wherein the autoclave has an inlet for solvent and concentrated reagent which is alternately connected to the dosification tank of concentrated reagent or to the pure solvent bottle. 24. A method of treating a cellulose-containing material comprising, in an autoclave: exposing a cellulose-containing material to at least one cycle of oscillating pressure comprising exposing the cellulose-containing material to atmospheric pressure and exposing the cellulose-containing material to a vacuum; conveying a deacidifying amount of a deacidifying agent and a carrier into the autoclave under a vacuum; and impregnating said cellulose-containing material with said deacidifying agent and carrier mixture and wherein the carrier comprises HCF 227, n-propanol, or both and further comprising draining the residual mixture from the autoclave to a residual solution tank; distilling the collected remaining mixture within the residual solution tank to produce a vapor; and conveying the vapor to a solvent bottle. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the number of oscillating pressure cycles is from about 10 to about 50. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the number of oscillating pressure cycles is sufficient to reduce the water content of the cellulose-containing material to less than about 2.5% by weight. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the cellulose-containing material has a water content from about 2% to about 2.5% by weight. 28. The method of claim 24, wherein vacuum has a pressure from about 30 millibars to about 40 millibars. 29. The method of claim 24, wherein a temperature in the autoclave is less than about 50.degree. C. 30. The method of claim 24, wherein a constant temperature is maintained in the autoclave. 31. The method of claim 24, wherein the deacidifying agent is conveyed into the autoclave by the autoclave vacuum. 32. The method of claim 24, wherein the carrier is conveyed into the autoclave before the deacidifying agent is conveyed into the autoclave. 33. The method of claim 24, wherein the deacidifying agent is a carbonate of magnesium di-n-propylate. 34. The method of claim 24, wherein the amounts of deacidifying agent and carrier conveyed into the autoclave are metered to achieve a predetermined concentration of deacidifying agent. 35. The method of claim 24, wherein the capacity of the autoclave is about 80 liters, the number of oscillating pressure cycles is between about 10 and about 50, the duration of each oscillating pressure cycle is about 8 minutes, and the mass of the cellulose-containing material is from about 20 kg to about 60 kg. 36. The method of claim 24 further comprising conveying a metered amount of deacidifying agent to a premixing chamber; conveying a metered amount of carrier to a premixing chamber; and mixing said deacidifying agent and carrier wherein the contents of the premixing chamber are not conveyed into the autoclave until mixing is substantially complete. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the deacidifying agent conveyed to the premixing chamber is in solution at a concentration of from about 50% to about 70% by weight. 38. The method of claim 36, wherein the carrier conveyed to the premixing chamber is preheated. 39. The method of claim 36, wherein the deacidifying agent in the mixture prior to conveyance into the autoclave has a concentration from about 2.0% to about 4.5% by weight. 40. The method of claim 36, wherein the method is automated. 41. The method of claim 24, wherein a duration of impregnation is about three hours. 42. The method of claim 24, wherein the residual mixture is conveyed to the residual solution tank by gravity, heat, or both gravity and heat. 43. The method of claim 24 further comprising condensing the vapor to form a distillate. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein condensation of the vapor occurs in the solvent bottle. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the solvent bottle has a temperature of less than about 25.degree. C. 46. The method of claim 24 further comprising removing the cellulose-containing material from the autoclave during distillation. 47. The method of claim 46 further comprising exposing in said autoclave a second cellulose-containing material to at least one cycle of oscillating pressure comprising exposing the cellulose-containing material to atmospheric pressure and exposing the cellulose-containing material to a vacuum; during the distillation. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the method is automated. 49. The method of claim 24 further comprising exposing the cellulose-containing material to an atmosphere substantially free of oxygen. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the atmosphere substantially free of oxygen comprises nitrogen, carbon dioxide, HCF 227 or combinations thereof. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein the atmosphere substantially free of oxygen in the autoclave has a pressure from about 30 millibars to about 2 bars. 52. The method of claim 49, wherein a duration of exposure to the atmosphere substantially free of oxygen is sufficient to kill substantially all insects and/or insect larvae. 53. The method of claim 49, wherein a duration of exposure to the atmosphere substantially free of oxygen is from about 4 hours to about 6 hours. 54. The method of claim 24, wherein the method is automated. 55. The method of claim 24, wherein the method is automated. 56. The method of claim 24 further comprising a results control stage at the end of the process. 57. The method of claim 56, wherein the results control stage comprises determining the magnesium distribution in the treated material before and after treatment by means of a scanning electron microscope (SEM), and by identification and quantitative determination by scanning with an electronic microprobe and determination of the pH with a plane electrode in several parts of the pages selected by random sampling. 58. The method of claim 57 further comprising making transverse cuts in the cellulose-containing material in order to observe the distribution of magnesium particles along the incision. 59. A method of treating cellulose-containing materials comprising: in an autoclave, exposing a first cellulose-containing material to at least one cycle of oscillating pressure comprising exposing the first cellulose-containing material to atmospheric pressure and exposing the first cellulose-containing material to a vacuum; conveying a metered amount of deacidifying agent to a premixing chamber; conveying a metered amount of carrier to a premixing chamber; mixing said deacidifying agent and carrier in the premixing chamber; conveying a deacidifying amount of a deacidifying agent and a carrier into the autoclave under a vacuum; impregnating said first cellulose-containing material with said mixture; conveying remaining mixture to a residual solution tank; distilling the collected remaining mixture to produce a vapor; conveying the vapor to a solvent bottle; condensing the vapor within the solvent bottle to produce a distillate; removing the first cellulose-containing material from the autoclave during said distillation; and exposing a second cellulose-containing material, during distillation, to at least one cycle of oscillating pressure comprising exposing the second cellulose-containing material to atmospheric pressure and exposing the second cellulose-containing material to a vacuum. 60. A method of treating cellulose-containing materials comprising: in an autoclave, exposing a first cellulose-containing material to at least one cycle of oscillating pressure comprising exposing the first cellulose-containing material to atmospheric pressure and exposing the first cellulose-containing material to a vacuum; conveying a metered amount of deacidifying agent and a metered amount of carrier into the autoclave wherein the deacidifying agent is conveyed into the autoclave at the same time as or after the carrier is conveyed into the autoclave; impregnating said first cellulose-containing material with said mixture; conveying remaining mixture to a residual solution tank; distilling the collected remaining mixture to produce a vapor; conveying the vapor to a solvent bottle; condensing the vapor within the solvent bottle to produce a distillate; removing the first cellulose-containing material from the autoclave during said distillation; and exposing a second cellulose-containing material, during distillation, to at least one cycle of oscillating pressure comprising exposing the second cellulose-containing material to atmospheric pressure and exposing the second cellulose-containing material to a vacuum. 