An autonomous floor cleaning robot includes a transport drive and control system arranged for autonomous movement of the robot over a floor for performing cleaning operations. The robot chassis carries a first cleaning zone comprising cleaning elements arranged to suction loose particulates up from the cleaning surface and a second cleaning zone comprising cleaning elements arraigned to apply a cleaning fluid onto the surface and to thereafter collect the cleaning fluid up from the surface after it has been used to clean the surface. The robot chassis carries a supply of cleaning fluid and a waste container for storing waste materials collected up from the cleaning surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous cleaning robot comprising: a chassis supported for transport over a cleaning surface, the chassis being defined by a fore-aft axis and a perpendicular transverse axis; a first collecting apparatus, attached to the chassis and configured to collect loose particulates from the cleaning surface across a cleaning width, said cleaning width being disposed generally parallel with the transverse axis; a liquid applicator, attached to the chassis and configured to apply a cleaning fluid onto the cleaning surface; and, wherein the arrangement of the first collecting apparatus with respect to the liquid applicator causes the first collecting apparatus to precede the liquid applicator over the cleaning surface when transporting the chassis in a forward direction. 2. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 1 further comprising: a smearing element attached to the chassis and configured to smear the cleaning fluid applied onto the cleaning surface to more uniformly spread the cleaning fluid over the cleaning surface; and, wherein the arrangement of the liquid applicator with respect to the smearing element causes the liquid applicator to precede the smearing element over the cleaning surface when transporting the chassis in a forward direction. 3. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 1 further comprising: a scrubbing element configured to scrub the cleaning surface; and, wherein the arrangement of the liquid applicator with respect to the scrubbing element causes the liquid applicator to precede the scrubbing element over the cleaning surface when transporting the chassis in the forward direction. 4. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 3 further comprising: a second collecting apparatus configured to collect waste liquid from the cleaning surface, the waste liquid comprising the cleaning fluid applied by the liquid applicator plus any contaminates, removed from the cleaning surface by the clean fluid; and, wherein the arrangement of the scrubbing element with respect to the second collecting apparatus causes the scrubbing element to precede the second collecting apparatus over the cleaning surface as the chassis is transported in the forward direction. 5. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 4 further comprising a first waste storage container, attached to the chassis, and arranged to receive the loose particulates therein. 6. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 5 further comprising a second waste storage container, attached to the chassis, and arranged to receive the waste liquid therein. 7. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 6 further comprising a cleaning fluid storage container, attached to the chassis and configured to store a supply of the cleaning fluid therein and to deliver the cleaning fluid to the liquid applicator. 8. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 7 wherein said cleaning fluid comprises water. 9. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 8 wherein said cleaning fluid comprises water mixed with any one of soap, solvent, fragrance, disinfectant, emulsifier, drying agent and abrasive particulates. 10. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 8 further comprising an interface module attached to the chassis and configured to provide an interface between an element external to the robot and at least one element attached to the chassis. 11. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 10 wherein the element external to the robot comprises one of a battery-charging device, a data processor, a device for autonomously filling the cleaning fluid storage container with cleaning fluid, and a device for autonomously emptying the waste liquid container. 12. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 6 wherein each of said first and said second waste containers are configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and to be emptied by the user. 13. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 12 wherein said cleaning fluid storage container is configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and to be filled by the user. 14. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 4 further comprising a combined waste storage container, attached to the chassis and configured to receive the loose particulates from the first collecting apparatus and to receive the waste liquid from the second collecting apparatus therein. 15. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 14 wherein the waste storage container is configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and to be emptied by the user. 16. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 15 further comprising a cleaning fluid storage container, attached to the chassis and configured to store a supply of the cleaning fluid therein and to deliver the cleaning fluid to the liquid applicator. 17. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 16 wherein said cleaning fluid storage container is configured to be user removable from the chassis and to be filled by the user. 18. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 4 further comprising: an integrated liquid storage container, attached to the chassis, and formed with two separate container portions comprising; a waste storage container portion configured to receive the loose particulates from the first collecting apparatus and the waste liquid from the second collecting apparatus therein; and, a cleaning fluid storage container portion configured to store a supply of the cleaning fluid therein and to deliver the cleaning fluid to the liquid applicator. 19. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 18 wherein said integrated liquid storage container is configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and for the cleaning fluid storage container to be filled by and for the waste storage container to be emptied by the user. 20. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 1 further comprising: a second collecting apparatus configured to collect waste liquid from the cleaning surface, the waste liquid comprising the cleaning fluid applied by the liquid applicator plus any contaminates, removed from the cleaning surface by the cleaning fluid; and, wherein the arrangement of the liquid applicator with respect to the second collecting apparatus causes the liquid applicator to precede the second collecting apparatus over the cleaning surface as the chassis is transported in the forward direction. 21. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 20 further comprising: a smearing element attached to the chassis and configured to smear the cleaning fluid applied onto the cleaning surface to more uniformly spread the cleaning fluid over the cleaning surface; and, wherein the arrangement of the liquid applicator with respect to the smearing element causes the liquid applicator to precede the smearing element over the cleaning surface when transporting the chassis in a forward direction. 22. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 21 further comprising a waste storage container, attached to the chassis and configured to receive the loose particulates from the first collecting apparatus and to receive the waste liquid from the second collecting apparatus therein. 23. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 22 wherein the waste storage container is configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and to be emptied by the user. 24. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 23 further comprising a cleaning fluid storage container, attached to the chassis and configured to store a supply of the cleaning fluid therein and to deliver the cleaning fluid to the liquid applicator. 25. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 24 wherein said cleaning fluid storage container is configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and to be filled by the user. 26. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 21 further comprising: an integrated liquid storage container, attached to the chassis, and formed with two separate container portions comprising; a waste storage container portion configured to receive the loose particulates from the first collecting apparatus and to receive the waste liquid from the second collecting apparatus therein; and, a cleaning fluid storage container configured to store a supply of the cleaning fluid therein and to deliver the cleaning fluid to the liquid applicator. 27. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 26 wherein said integrated liquid storage container is configured to be removable from the chassis by a user and for the cleaning fluid storage container to be filled by and for the waste storage container to be emptied by the user. 28. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 20 wherein the first collecting apparatus comprises: an air jet port, attached to the chassis disposed at a first edge of the cleaning width and configured to blow a jet of air across the cleaning width proximate to the cleaning surface, to thereby force loose particulates on the cleaning surface to move away from the first edge in a direction generally parallel with the transverse axis; an air intake port, attached to the chassis and disposed at a second edge of the cleaning width, opposed from the first edge and proximate to the cleaning surface for suctioning up the loose particulates; a waste storage container configured to receive the loose particulates from the air intake port, and, a fan assembly configured to generate a negative pressure within the waste storage container. 29. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 28 wherein the fan assembly is further configured to generate a positive air pressure at the air jet port. 30. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 28 wherein the second collecting apparatus comprises: a squeegee attached to the chassis and formed with a longitudinal ridge disposed proximate to the cleaning surface and extending across the cleaning width for providing a liquid collection volume at a forward edge of the ridge, said longitudinal ridge collecting waste liquid within the liquid collection volume as the chassis is transported in the forward direction; a vacuum chamber partially formed by the squeegee disposed proximate to the longitudinal ridge and extending across the cleaning width; a plurality of suction ports passing through the squeegee for providing a plurality of fluid passages for fluidly connecting the liquid collection volume and the vacuum chamber; and, a vacuum for generating a negative air pressure within the vacuum chamber for drawing waste liquid collected within the liquid collection volume into the vacuum chamber. 31. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 30 further comprising: a waste storage container configured to receive the waste liquid from the vacuum chamber, at least one fluid conduit fluidly connecting the vacuum chamber and the waste storage container; and, a fan assembly configured to generate a negative air pressure within the waste storage container and the vacuum chamber to thereby suction waste liquid from the cleaning surface and deposit the waste liquid in the waste storage container. 32. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 31 wherein the fan assembly is configured to generate a positive air pressure at the air jet port. 33. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 20 wherein the second collecting apparatus comprises: a squeegee attached to the chassis and formed with a longitudinal ridge disposed proximate to the cleaning surface and extending across the cleaning width for providing a liquid collection volume at a forward edge of the ridge, said longitudinal ridge collecting waste liquid within the liquid collection volume as the chassis is transported in the forward direction; a vacuum chamber partially formed by the squeegee disposed proximate to the longitudinal ridge and extending across the cleaning width; a plurality of suction ports passing through the squeegee for providing a plurality of fluid passages for fluidly connecting the liquid collection volume and the vacuum chamber; and, a vacuum for generating a negative air pressure within the vacuum chamber for drawing waste liquid collected within the liquid collection volume into the vacuum chamber. 34. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 33 further comprising: a waste storage container configured to receive the waste liquid from the vacuum chamber, at least one fluid conduit fluidly connecting the vacuum chamber and the waste storage container; and, a fan assembly configured to generate a negative air pressure within the waste storage container and the vacuum chamber to thereby suction waste liquid up from the cleaning surface and deposit the waste liquid in the waste storage container. 35. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 1 further comprising: a motive drive subsystem attached to chassis for transporting the chassis over the cleaning surface; a power module attached to the chassis for delivering electrical power to each of a plurality of power consuming subsystems attached to the chassis; and, a master control module attached to the chassis for controlling the motive drive module, the first collecting apparatus, and the liquid applicator, to autonomously transport the robot over the cleaning surface and to autonomously clean the cleaning surface. 36. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 35 further comprising: a sensor module configured to sense conditions external to the robot and to sense conditions internal to the robot and to generate electrical sensor signals in response to sensing said conditions; a signal line for communicating the electrical sensor signals to the master control module; and, a controller incorporated within the master control module for implementing predefined operating modes of the robot in response to said conditions. 37. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 36 further comprising: a user control module configured to receive an input command from a user and to generate an electrical input signal in response to the input command; a signal line for communicating the electrical input signal to the master control module; and, a controller incorporated within the master control module for implementing predefined operating modes of the robot in response to the input command. 38. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 37 further comprising an interface module attached to the chassis and configured to provide an interface between an element external to the robot and at least one element attached to the chassis. 39. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 38 wherein the element external to the robot comprises one of a battery-charging device and a data processor. 40. An autonomous cleaning robot for transporting cleaning elements over a cleaning surface comprising: a chassis, supported in rolling contact with the cleaning surface for transporting the chassis in a forward direction defined by a fore-aft axis, the chassis being further defined by a transverse axis; a first cleaning zone comprising cleaning elements attached to the chassis and arranged to collect loose particulates from the cleaning surface across a cleaning width, the cleaning width being disposed generally perpendicular with the fore-aft axis; a second cleaning zone comprising cleaning elements attached to the chassis and arranged to apply a cleaning fluid onto the cleaning surface and to collect a waste liquid from the cleaning surface across the cleaning width, said waste liquid comprising the cleaning fluid plus any contaminates removed from the cleaning surface by the cleaning fluid; and, a motive drive subsystem controlled by a master control module and powered by a power module, the motive drive subsystem, master control module and power module each being electrically interconnected and attached to the chassis configured to autonomously transporting the robot over the cleaning surface and to clean the cleaning surface. 41. An autonomous cleaning robot according to claim 40 wherein the robot is configured with a circular cross-section having a vertical center axis and wherein said fore-aft axis, said transverse axis and said vertical axis are mutually perpendicular and wherein the motive drive subsystem is configured to rotate the robot about the center vertical axis for changing the orientation of the forward travel direction. 