A robotics module for a storage library includes a robot assembly and a cable mechanism within a housing. A cable is routed around the cable mechanism. An end of the cable is connected to the robot assembly to communicate with the robot assembly. The cable mechanism enables the cable to be pulled out from cable mechanism as the robot assembly moves away from the housing. The cable mechanism prevents the cable from being retracted back into the cable mechanism after the robot assembly has moved out of the housing by wedging the cable with a roller. The cable mechanism enables the cable to be retracted back into the cable mechanism while the robot assembly is in the housing by pulling the roller away from the cable. A retraction handle assembly enables the cable to be manually retracted back into the cable mechanism while the robot assembly is in the housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library comprising: a frame; a plurality of cells supported within the frame for holding media elements; and a module supported in the frame, the module having a housing and a robot assembly operable for moving away from the housing in order to move toward the cells and manipulate media elements supported by the cells, the module further having a communications cable routed around a cable mechanism within the housing, one end of the communications cable being connected with the robot assembly for enabling communications with the robot assembly, the cable mechanism being operable for enabling a portion of the communications cable to be pulled out from the cable mechanism as the robot assembly moves away from the housing. 2. The library of claim 1 wherein: the cable mechanism is further operable for preventing the pulled out communications cable portion from being retracted back into the cable mechanism after the robot assembly has moved out of the housing. 3. The library of claim 2 wherein: the cable mechanism is further operable for enabling the pulled out communications cable portion to be retracted back into the cable mechanism while the robot assembly is in the housing. 4. The library of claim 3 wherein: the cable mechanism enables the pulled out communications cable portion to be manually retracted back into the cable mechanism while the robot assembly is in the housing. 5. The library of claim 3 wherein: the cable mechanism includes a tension spring assembly which is configured to wedge the communications cable with a roller biased under a torque load to prevent the pulled out communications cable portion from being retracted back into the cable mechanism after the robot assembly has moved out of the housing. 6. The library of claim 5 wherein: the tension spring assembly is configured to pull away the roller from the communications cable while the robot assembly is in the housing to enable the pulled out communications cable portion to be retracted back into the cable mechanism. 7. The library of claim 6 wherein: the cable mechanism further includes a retraction handle assembly, wherein the retraction handle assembly enables a user to manually retract the pulled out communications cable portion back into the cable mechanism while the robot assembly is in the housing. 8. The library of claim 1 wherein: the module is removably supportable out of the frame when the robot assembly is in the housing and the communications cable is retracted back into the cable mechanism. 9. The library of claim 1 wherein: the module is removably supportable into the frame when the robot assembly is in the housing and the communications cable is retracted into the cable mechanism. 10. The library of claim 1 wherein: the robot assembly includes a platform and the end of the communications cable connected to the robot assembly forms a loop around an extension of the platform, wherein the platform extension applies a force on the cable loop as the robot assembly moves away from the housing causing the portion of the communications cable to be pulled out from the cable mechanism. 11. The library of claim 10 wherein: the force applied by the platform extension on the cable loop is caused by the weight of the platform as the robot assembly moves down and away from the housing. 