A mobile communications device comprising a location sensing system, producing a location output; a memory, storing a set of locations and associated events; a telecommunications device, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to determine a priority thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile system, comprising: an input for receiving a signal representing a position of the system; an input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system and a mobile system-specific authorization status, said varying condition comprising at least one of a road condition, a traffic condition and a weather condition; a device selectively providing access to the information in dependence on a mobile system-specific authorization status; a cryptographic processor for decrypting at least a portion of the received information, wherein said cryptographic processor is controlled in dependence on the received authorization status; a memory for storing data relating to a prospective route for the system; and a user interface selectively presenting a prioritized indication based on a relation of the position of the system, the prospective route for the system, the authorization status, and the varying condition remote from the system, wherein said stored data relating to a prospective route for the system is automatically adapted in dependence on a relation of the position of the system, and the varying condition remote from the system. 2. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving a signal representing a position of the system receives global positioning system information. 3. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving a signal representing inertial reference information. 4. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving a signal representing a position of the system receives terrestrial network location signals. 5. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system receives said information communicated through a radio frequency receiver. 6. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system represents a road condition. 7. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system represents a traffic condition. 8. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system is acquired through an automated environmental sensor. 9. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system receives data which is analyzed locally by the system to determine a nature of the condition. 10. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system receives data which is analyzed remotely from the system to determine a nature of the condition. 11. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates with a stationary database system. 12. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates with at least one mobile transmitter. 13. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates through at least one mobile transceiver which acts as a communications intermediary from a source of said information relating to a position of the varying condition. 14. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates through at least one stationary transmitter which acts as a communications intermediary from a source of said information relating to a position of the varying condition. 15. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates with a plurality of sources of said information. 16. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates through a cellular network. 17. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system communicates through the Internet. 18. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said memory for storing data relating to a prospective route for the system stores an itinerary. 19. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said memory for storing data relating to a prospective route for the system stores an itinerary defined by a user through a user interface. 20. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said memory for storing data relating to a prospective route for the system is part of an automated vehicle navigation system. 21. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said user interface comprises a graphic interface. 22. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein user interface comprises a voice interface. 23. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said user interface comprises a map. 24. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said user interface prioritizes a plurality of said indications. 25. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said user interface presents a plurality of said indications to a user in priority sorted order. 26. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein said user interface further presents said indication based on a position and a nature of the varying condition remote from the system. 27. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein the authorization status comprises a status of a subscription, wherein said cryptographic processor is controlled in dependence on the subscription status. 28. The mobile system according to claim 1, further comprising an input for receiving advertising information associated with a location, the user interface further presenting at least one item of advertising information based on a relation of the position of the system and the location. 29. The mobile system according to claim 1, wherein the received information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system is received as encrypted information through a satellite radio receiver. 30. The mobile system according to claim 1, further comprising a memory for storing an advertisement subsidy amount, responsive to presentation of advertisements through the user interface. 31. A method, comprising the steps of: representing a position of a mobile system; receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the mobile system and a system-specific authorization status, said varying condition comprising at least one of a road condition, a traffic condition and a weather condition; selectively making available the received information by decrypting at least a portion of received information, in dependence on the received system-specific authorization status; storing data relating to a prospective route for the mobile system; and presenting a prioritized indication based on a relation of the position of the mobile system, the prospective route for the mobile system, the authorization status, and the varying condition remote from the mobile system, wherein said data relating to a prospective route for the mobile system automatically adapts the stored data based on a relation of the position of the mobile system, and the varying condition remote from the mobile system. 32. The method according to claim 31, wherein said position of the mobile system is determined by a system selected from the group consisting of one or more of a global positioning system, an inertial reference system, and a terrestrial network location system. 33. The method according to claim 31, wherein said information relating to a position to a position of a varying condition remote from the mobile system is received through a radio frequency receiver, said information comprising one or more of the group consisting of a sensed environmental condition, road condition; a traffic condition; and a weather condition. 34. The method according to claim 31, wherein said input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the mobile system communicates through at least one mobile transceiver which acts as a communications intermediary from at least one source of said information relating to a position of the varying condition. 35. The method according to claim 31, further comprising the step of adapting the output based on past experience. 36. The method according to claim 31, further comprising the step of prioritizing a plurality of indications. 37. The method according to claim 31, wherein the authorization status comprises a subscription status, and wherein said decrypting is selectively controlled in dependence on the subscription status. 38. The method according to claim 31, wherein the authorization status is dependent on a mobile system subscription maintenance. 39. A mobile vehicle, comprising: a position detection sub-system; an input for receiving protected information relating to a position of a time-varying condition remote from the vehicle and a system-specific authorization status, said time-varying condition comprising at least one of a road condition, a traffic condition and a weather condition; a device selectively providing access to the protected information in dependence on the received system-specific authorization status; at least a portion of the protected information being encrypted and the device comprising a cryptographic processor for decrypting at least a portion of the received protected information, in dependence on the system-specific authorization status; a memory for storing data relating to a prospective route for the vehicle; and a user interface within said vehicle for presenting a prioritized indication to a driver based on a relation of the position of the vehicle, the prospective route for the vehicle, and the varying condition remote from the vehicle, wherein said stored data relating to a prospective route for the vehicle is automatically adapted based on a relation of the position of the vehicle, and the time-varying condition remote from the vehicle. 40. A mobile system, comprising: an input for receiving a signal representing a position of the system; an input for receiving information relating to a position of a varying condition remote from the system and a system-specific authorization status, said varying condition comprising at least one of a road condition, a traffic condition and a weather condition; an input for receiving advertising information associated with a location; a cryptographic processor for decrypting at least a portion of received information, wherein said cryptographic processor is controlled in dependence on the received system-specific authorization status; a memory for storing data relating to a prospective route for the system; and a user interface presenting a prioritized indication based on a relation of the position of the system, the prospective route for the system, and the varying condition remote from the system, wherein said stored data relating to a prospective route for the system is automatically adapted based on a relation of the position of the system, and the varying condition remote from the system. 41. The mobile system according to claim 40, wherein said user interface presents at least one item of advertising information in dependence on a relation of the position and the location. 42. The mobile system according to claim 40, wherein a presentation of advertising information is associated with a subsidy for use of the received information. 43. The mobile system according to claim 40, wherein advertising information is selectively presented in dependence on a subscription status. 