This invention relates generally to the targeting and biopsy of tissue for medical purposes, and more particularly to a targeted biopsy system which allows planning of tissue to be sampled, targeting of specific areas of tissue in reference to the plan, capturing the tissue sample and recording the source location of the tissue sample, particularly for use in collecting tissue samples from the prostate gland. A further purpose of this invention is to provide a targeted treatment system which allows planning of tissue to be treated, targeting of specific areas of tissue in reference to the plan, and delivering the treatment to the targeted tissue.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for targeted treatment comprising: a redirecting guide having a guide body and an elongate guide channel; an ultrasonic system having an ultrasonic system CPU, an ultrasonic probe and a display monitor that cooperate to generate and display ultrasonic images of a target tissue mass, wherein said ultrasonic probe comprises a probe tip adapted such that said guide body of said redirecting guide sits atop said probe tip and can be moved in different rotative positions and different longitudinal positions relative to said probe tip; an assembly for controlling rotational position and longitudinal position of said guide body of said redirecting guide relative to said probe tip; a targeting software system that displays ultrasonic images generated by the ultrasonic system in a transverse image display and a sagittal image display that are simultaneously displayed on said display monitor, wherein said wherein said transverse image displays a transverse image sampled by said ultrasonic probe at a respective depth within said probe tip, wherein said sagittal image display displays a longitudinal image sampled at a respective angular orientation within said probe tip, wherein projections of a plurality of paths are simultaneously displayed on said transverse image display and said sagittal image display, each said path defined by a corresponding rotative position and longitudinal position of said guide body of said redirecting guide relative to said probe tip as controlled by said assembly; and a treatment delivering means which may be inserted into and through the elongate guide channel of said redirecting guide for treating a particular portion of the target tissue mass whose images are displayed on said monitor, wherein said particular portion of the target tissue mass corresponds to a given path defined by a corresponding rotative position and longitudinal position of said guide body of said redirecting guide relative to said probe tip as controlled by said assembly. 2. System according to claim 1, wherein: said given path is one of said plurality of paths projected onto said transverse image display and said saggital image display on said monitor. 3. System according to claim 1, wherein: a respective path is shown as a line in the image plane of one of the transverse image display and the saggital image display. 4. System according to claim 1, wherein: a respective path is shown as a graphical element in the image plane of one of the transverse image display and the saggital image display. 5. System according to claim 4, wherein: the graphical element is depicted where the respective needle path pierces the image plane of the given image display. 6. System according to claim 4, wherein: the graphical element comprises a circle. 7. System according to claim 1, wherein: said treatment delivery means comprises a cannula. 8. System according to claim 1, wherein: said treatment delivery means deposits a material in the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 9. System according to claim 8, wherein: the material may be a solid, liquid or gas. 10. System according to claim 8, wherein: the material is organic or a living organism. 11. System according to claim 8, wherein: the material acts as a marker. 12. System according to claim 8, wherein: the material provides treatment to the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 13. System according to claim 1, wherein: said treatment delivery means deposits and removes a material in the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 14. System according to claim 13, wherein: the material may be a solid, liquid or gas. 15. System according to claim 13, wherein: the material is organic or a living organism. 16. System according to claim 13, wherein: the material acts as a marker. 17. System according to claim 13, wherein: the material provides treatment to the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 18. System according to claim 1, wherein: said treatment delivery means removes a previously-deposited material in the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 19. System according to claim 18, wherein: the material may be a solid, liquid or gas. 20. System according to claim 18, wherein: the material is organic or a living organism. 21. System according to claim 18, wherein: the material acts as a marker. 22. System according to claim 18, wherein: the material provides treatment to the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 23. System according to claim 1, wherein: said treatment delivery mean applies energy to the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 24. System according to claim 23, wherein: the energy comprises light. 25. System according to claim 23, wherein: the energy acts to apply heat or cold to the particular portion of the target tissue mass. 26. System according to claim 1, further comprising: a path location registry which indicates horizontal and rotation position of a respective path in reference to the ultrasonic probe, wherein the assembly has position information which correlates to the path location registry. 27. System according to claim 1, wherein: said redirecting guide comprises an entrance opening and exit opening adjacent opposed ends of the guide channel, the entrance opening receiving the treatment delivery means, the exit opening allowing for the treatment delivery means to exit therefrom, wherein the guide channel has a bend portion that redirects the treatment delivery means such that a portion of the treatment delivery means that exits from the exit opening of the redirected guide is angled away from the probe tip. 28. System according to claim 1, wherein: said redirecting guide is selectively positioned or rotated relative to the probe consistent with a number of planned treatment locations. 29. System according to claim 1, wherein: said redirecting guide is provided with demarcations or other indications of position relative to the probe tip. 30. System according to claim 1, wherein: said transverse image display and said sagittal image display are simultaneously displayed in a side-by-side arrangement on said display monitor. 31. System according to claim 1, wherein: said transverse image display and said sagittal image display are simultaneously displayed adjacent one another on said display monitor. 32. System according to claim 1, wherein: said transverse image display and said sagittal image display are simultaneously displayed with interface means for initiating addition of a user-specified path to said plurality of paths. 33. System according to claim 1, wherein: said transverse image display and said sagittal image display are simultaneously displayed with interface means for initiating removal of a user-specified path from said plurality of paths. 34. System according to claim 1, wherein: said transverse image display and said sagittal image display are simultaneously displayed with interface means for initiating addition of a user-specified path to said plurality of paths. 