A robotic system, and corresponding method, performs the function of a human scrub technician in an operating room. A device, and associated method for using the device, performs one, or more, of the following functions: instrument identification, instrument localization, instrument handling, interaction with a human, and integration of functions through a cognitive system. A method for movement of the device comprises the steps of modeling the arm of the robot to create a model comprising elements of finite mass joined by junctions, using an algorithm to calculate results of the effect of applying force to the elements of the model, using attractive, replusive and postural forces in the algorithm, and using the results of the model to direct motion of the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manipulating a surgical instrument or product in an operating room by a robotic system, comprising: initiating a search for the instrument or product; autonomously identifying the instrument or product by a characteristic feature; autonomously determining the location of the instrument or product; autonomously picking up the instrument or product; autonomously moving the instrument or product from a first location to a second location; and autonomously releasing the instrument or product, wherein each step is performed by the robotic system and the robotic system is capable of selecting an instrument or product, presenting the instrument or product to a surgeon, and retrieving the instrument or product after use. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the search is initiated by the robotic system in response to a human command. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the search is initiated in response to a human command made by voice and received by a voice recognition system. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the search is initiated by artificial intelligence. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the search is initiated autonomously by the robot. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by size. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by color. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by aspect ratio. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by bar coding. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by use of an electromagnet. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by an electromagnet that can be controlled by the robotic system to turn off at the appropriate time to release the surgical instrument or product to a surgeon. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by use of suction. 13. A robotic system for manipulating a surgical instrument or product in an operating room which is capable of responding to a request for a surgical instrument or product, autonomously identifying a surgical instrument or product by use of machine vision, autonomously picking up the surgical instrument or product, autonomously moving the surgical instrument or product, and autonomously releasing the surgical instrument or product, wherein the robotic system is capable of selecting an instrument or product, presenting the instrument or product to a surgeon, and retrieving the instrument or product after use. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is made by sound. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is made by a human being. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is made by artificial intelligence. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the surgical instrument is identified by size. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by color. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by means of magnetic forces. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by means of a magnet applied to the center of mass of the surgical instrument or product. 21. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is made by the voice of a human being and the surgical instrument or product is identified by color. 22. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is made by the voice of a human being and the surgical instrument or product is picked up by means of magnetic forces. 23. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is by artificial intelligence and the surgical instrument or product is picked up by means of magnetic forces. 24. A robotic system comprising an arm for manipulating a specified object, which system is capable of autonomously picking up the object in response to a spoken word or words and which picks up the object utilizing the arm, wherein the arm moves by means of instructions created by an algorithm wherein calculations are made based upon the analysis of application of attractive, repulsive, and postural theoretical forces to components of a model, said components comprising elements of finite mass joined by junctions, wherein the robotic system is capable of selecting an instrument or product, presenting the instrument or product to a surgeon, and retrieving the instrument or product after use. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the specified object is picked up at, or approximately at, its two-dimensional center-of-mass, as calculated by the device using machine vision. 26. A method for manipulating a surgical instrument or product in an operating room by a robotic system, comprising the steps of: autonomously initiating a search for the instrument or product; autonomously identifying the instrument or product by a characteristic feature; autonomously determining the location of the instrument or product; autonomously picking up the instrument or product; autonomously moving the instrument or product from a first location to a second location; and autonomously releasing the instrument or product, wherein each step is performed by the robotic system and the robotic system is capable of selecting an instrument or product, presenting the instrument or product to a surgeon, and retrieving the instrument or product after use. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the search is initiated by the robotic system in response to a human command. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the search is initiated in response to a human command made by voice and received by a voice recognition system. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by size, color, aspect ratio, or bar coding. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by use of an electromagnet or suction. 31. A robotic system for manipulating a surgical instrument or product in an operating room which is capable of responding to a request for a surgical instrument or product, identifying the surgical instrument or product by use of machine vision, picking up the surgical instrument or product, moving the surgical instrument or product, and releasing the surgical instrument or product, wherein the robotic system is capable of selecting an instrument or product, presenting the instrument or product to a surgeon, and retrieving the instrument or product after use. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the request is made by sound or artificial intelligence. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein the surgical instrument or product is identified by size, color, aspect ratio, or bar coding. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein the surgical instrument or product is picked up by means of magnetic forces or suction. 