A method of maintaining a status of a product item is provided. The product item includes an associated interface surface which has coded data including a plurality of coded data portions indicative of the product item's identity. The method includes, in a sensing device, sensing at least one coded data portion, generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity therefrom, and transferring the indicating data to a computer system. The computer system is responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store. Each coded data portion is indicative of the respective position. The method further includes, generating in the sensing device and using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of at least one of a position of the sensed coded data portion on the interface surface and a position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of maintaining a status of a product item, the product item including tags tiled across a surface thereof, each respective tag encoding an identity of the product item, and position and orientation of the respective tag on the surface, the method including, in a sensing device, the steps of: sensing at least one tag; generating, indicating data indicative of the product item identity, the position of the product item relative to the sensing device, and the orientation of the product item relative to the sensing device; and transferring the indicating data to a computer system, the computer system being responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further includes, in the sensing device: receiving a selection of a status mode; and including in the indicating data the selected status mode. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the status mode is selected using an input provided on the sensing device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least part of the product status information represents an inventory. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least part of the product status information represents a shopping list. 