A monolithic integrated circuit arrangement containing a substrate, a functional unit formed in and/or on the substrate, and an energy supply unit, which is formed in and/or on the substrate and is coupled to the functional unit and has an inductance and a permanent magnet. The inductance and the permanent magnet are arranged such that, under a vibration on the circuit arrangement, the permanent magnet is moved relative to the inductance such that an electrical induced voltage for supplying the functional unit with electrical energy is induced by the inductance.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A monolithic integrated circuit arrangement comprising: a substrate; a functional unit formed in and/or on the substrate; an energy supply unit formed in and/or on the substrate and monolithically integrated with the functional unit, the energy supply unit includes an inductance and a permanent magnet having one or a plurality of comb or tongue structures, wherein, under a vibration on the circuit arrangement, the permanent magnet is moved relative to the inductance thereby inducing an electrical voltage and supplying the functional unit with electrical energy. 2. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the substrate is a semiconductor substrate. 3. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the functional unit is a sensor. 4. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 3, wherein the sensor is one or more of a rotational speed sensor, a temperature sensor, a pressure sensor, a chemical sensor, a gas sensor, a biosensor, a radiation sensor, and a sensor for detecting a vibration frequency. 5. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the monolithic integrated circuit arrangement is fitted to a vibration source. 6. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 5, wherein the vibration source has a motor. 7. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a communication interface for contactless communication with an external control unit. 8. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the energy supply unit has a rectifier device that rectifies an induced voltage of the inductance, for supplying the functional unit with a DC voltage. 9. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the energy supply unit has an energy storage unit, in which electrical charge carriers generated by the induced voltage can be buffer-stored. 10. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 9, wherein the energy storage unit is formed from a capacitance. 11. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inductance is an electrically conductive meander structure. 12. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inductance is an arrangement of a plurality of electrically conductive meander structures formed in the substrate plane one next to another and/or vertically one above another with respect to the substrate plane. 13. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inductance is an electrically conductive spiral structure. 14. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inductance is an arrangement of a plurality of electrically conductive spiral structures formed in the substrate plane one next another and/or vertically above another with respect to the substrate plane. 15. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the permanent magnet is suspended freely above the substrate and is coupled to the substrate by at least one elastic spring element. 16. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the permanent magnet's magnetization direction extends essentially orthogonally with respect to the surface of the substrate. 17. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 15, wherein the at least one elastic spring element and the permanent magnet together are adapted to a predetermined resonant frequency. 18. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 15, further comprising a plurality of elastic spring elements, wherein the plurality of elastic spring elements and the permanent magnet together are adapted to a plurality of different predetermined resonant frequencies or at least one predetermined band of resonant frequencies. 19. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein the permanent magnet is moved relative to the inductance in two mutually orthogonal directions in the substrate plane. 20. The monolithic integrated circuit arrangement as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a magnetic field shielding region formed between the substrate and a combination of the permanent magnet and the inductance, wherein the magnetic field shielding region shields a magnetic field of the permanent magnet in the substrate. 21. A circuit arrangement comprising: a functional unit; an energy supply unit including an inductance and a permanent magnet having one or a plurality of comb or tongue structures, converting vibrational energy into electrical energy, wherein the energy supply unit is monolithically integrated with the functional unit and energizes the functional unit. 