Wet and dry film thickness can be measured non-invasively on structures, such as surfaces associated with vessels, aircraft and buildings, using calibrated microwave sensors. The film is measured by directing microwave energy toward the film. The microwave energy passes through the film and is reflected by a reflective or semi-reflective substrate surface below the film. Properties of the reflected wave are compared with properties of reflected waves that were passed through calibration samples of known thicknesses to determine the unknown thickness of the film. In some embodiments, one or more sensors are maintained at a fixed altitude above the conductive/semi-conductive substrate for measurement, and in other embodiments, one or more sensors are maintained at a fixed altitude above the film. In one embodiment, sensors are associated with a coating applicator, with a first sensor preceding the applicator and a second sensor following the applicator to measure the thickness of the film applied by the applicator by comparing measurements before and after coating.
Claims We claim as follows: 1. A method of determining thickness of a film on a substrate, comprising: directing primary microwave energy from a microwave transmitter toward a film of unknown thickness of a substrate located at a distance from the transmitter; receiving reflected microwave energy returned from the substrate as affected by the film; separating the reflected microwave energy from the primary microwave energy; measuring components of the reflected microwave energy; and determining from the effect of the film on the reflected microwave energy while eliminating the effect of the distance between the microwave transmitter and the substrate on the reflected microwave energy, a thickness value of the film from the components, or functions of the components, of the reflected microwave energy using a stored relationship between the properties of reflected microwave energy and thicknesses of films, the stored relationship being obtained from previous measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses, in which directing microwave energy toward a film on a substrate includes moving a microwave transmitter parallel to the surface of the substrate as part of a robotic or automatic coating application system, the method including measuring a thickness of a wet film overlaying a dry film by employing two sensors--one microwave sensor over the wet film atop the dry film, and another sensor over the dry film--and determining the difference in measurements of the two sensors the wet film thickness. 2. The method of claim 1 in which determining a film thickness from the components of the reflected microwave energy includes comparing the measured components or a function thereof to a pre-determined relationship between film thickness and measured components or a function thereof, the predetermined relationship having been derived from measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising determining the predetermined relationship by directing microwaves toward calibration films of known thicknesses and measuring one or more of the amplitude, phase shift, in-phase component, or quadrature component of the reflected microwave energy. 4. The method of claim 3 in which determining the predetermined relationship includes determining a relationship describing thickness as a function of an in-phase component and a quadrature component. 5. The method of claim 4 in which the predetermined relationship is one that is characterizable as a spiral on a graph showing film thickness plotted against in-phase component on one axis and quadrature component on another axis. 6. The method of claim 4 in which the predetermined relationship is one that is characterizable as a parabola on a graph showing film thickness plotted against shift in phase between the primary wave and the reflected wave. 7. The method of claim 4 in which the predetermined relationship is characterizable as a damped periodic function on a graph showing film thickness plotted against the in-phase component or the quadrature component of the reflected wave. 8. The method of claim 4 in which the predetermined relationship is stored as a table. 9. The method of claim 4 in which the predetermined relationship is stored as one or more mathematical expressions derived from measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses. 10. The method of claim 1 in which determining a thickness value of the film from the components of the reflected microwave energy includes determining a phase angle of the reflected wave and comparing the phase angle with a predetermined relationship between phase angle and film thickness, the predetermined relationship having been derived from measurements of calibration films of known thicknesses. 11. The method of claim 1 in which directing microwave energy toward a film on a substrate includes directing microwave energy toward a wet film. 12. The method of claim 1 in which directing microwave energy toward a film on a substrate includes directing microwave energy toward a dry film. 13. The method of claim 1 in which directing microwave energy toward a film on a substrate includes moving a microwave transmitter parallel to the surface of the substrate at a fixed distance from the substrate surface while directing microwave energy toward the film on the substrate. 14. The method of claim 1 in which directing microwave energy toward a film on a substrate includes moving a microwave transmitter parallel to the surface of the substrate at a fixed distance from an exposed film surface while directing microwave energy toward the film on the substrate. 15. The method of claim 1 in which the range of thicknesses that can be measured is be extended beyond the range of the calibration film target thicknesses by extrapolating using a predetermined relationship that is characterizable as a spiral on a graph showing film thickness parametrically plotted against in-phase component on the x-axis and the quadrature component on the y-axis. 16. The method of claim 1 in which the range of thicknesses that can be measured is greater than the range of the calibration film targets thicknesses by extrapolating using a predetermined relationship characterizable as a damped periodic function, or portion of same, on a graph showing microwave components plotted against distance to the substrate as effected by an intervening coating layer. 17. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining the thickness of an overlaying wet film using a microwave sensor over the wet plus day film and an optical proximity sensor over the dry film to derive wet film thickness. 18. The method of claim 1 in which directing primary microwave energy toward a film of unknown thickness on a substrate includes directing primary energy toward the film from a known distance above the substrate. 19. The method of claim 1 in which directing primary microwave energy toward a film of unknown thickness on a substrate includes directing primary energy toward the film from a known distance above the film. 20. The method of claim 1 in which determining a thickness value of the film includes determining a film thickness of less than 5 mm. 