A wireless data transmission method includes providing a plurality of radio frequency transmitters. A receiver is provided to receive transmissions from the transmitters. A data format including a plurality of transmission time slots is defined. A first subset of the plurality of transmitters that are apt to send the transmissions simultaneously is determined. Each of the transmitters in the first subset is assigned to a different one of the time slots. A second subset of the plurality of transmitters that are apt to send the transmissions non-simultaneously is determined. Each of the transmitters in the second subset is assigned to a same one of the time slots. The transmitters are used to transmit the transmissions to the receiver in accordance with the assigning steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wireless data transmission method, comprising: providing a plurality of radio frequency transmitters; providing a receiver to receive transmissions from the transmitters; defining a data frame format including a plurality of transmission time slots; determining a first subset of the plurality of transmitters that are apt to send the transmissions simultaneously; assigning each of the transmitters in the first subset to a different said time slot; determining a second subset of the plurality of transmitters that are apt to send the transmissions non-simultaneously; assigning each of the transmitters in the second subset to a same said time slot; and using the transmitters to transmit the transmissions to the receiver in accordance with the assigning steps. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining a first subset of the transmitters includes detecting which of the transmitters have transmitted data packets that have collided with data packets transmitted by other ones of the transmitters. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of determining a second subset of the transmitters includes detecting which of the transmitters have not transmitted data packets that have collided with data packets transmitted by other ones of the transmitters. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein each of the transmitters is associated with a respective sensor. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein each of the assigning steps includes transmitting signals from the receiver to the transmitters. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the data frame format includes a plurality of frequency channels. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the transmissions comprise data packets. 8. A wireless data transmission method, comprising: providing a plurality of radio frequency transmitters; providing a plurality of receivers to receive transmissions from the transmitters; configuring each of the receivers to receive the transmissions on a respective one of a plurality of frequency channels; defining a data frame format including a plurality of transmission time slots; determining a first subset of the plurality of transmitters that have previously transmitted said transmissions simultaneously and on a same said frequency channel; assigning each of the transmitters in the first subset to at least one of a different said frequency channel and a different said time slot; determining a second subset of the plurality of transmitters that have not previously transmitted said transmissions both simultaneously and on a same said frequency channel; assigning each of the transmitters in the second subset to a same said frequency channel and a same said time slot; and using the transmitters to transmit the transmissions to the receivers in accordance with the assigning steps. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of determining a first subset of the transmitters includes detecting which of the transmitters have transmitted data packets that have collided with data packets transmitted by other ones of the transmitters. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of determining a second subset of the transmitters includes detecting which of the transmitters have not transmitted data packets that have collided with data packets transmitted by other ones of the transmitters. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein each of the transmitters is associated with a respective sensor. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein each of the assigning steps includes transmitting signals from the receiver to the transmitters. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein the transmissions comprise data packets. 14. The method of claim 8 wherein the receivers are included within a single programmable logic controller. 