Cleaning devices which use cleaning sheets affixed in traps are disclosed. The traps comprise first and second jaws, each comprising base and forward portions, each forward position having a forward surface. The forward portion of the second jaw is flexible in at least a first direction, such as towards a surface over which the device is configured to move. When the second jaw is relaxed, the forward portion of the second jaw is substantially coplanar with the forward portion of the first jaw and the forward surfaces are proximate or touching. When the second jaw is flexed in the first direction (e.g., by the application of a force from a user), the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw moves in the first direction, away from the forward surface of the first jaw. This opens a gap through which a portion of a sheet may be inserted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a body; a platform associated with the body and having a first surface facing away from the body and substantially parallel to and facing towards a surface in an environment in which the robot is configured to move; and a plurality of substantially longitudinal traps attached to a second surface of the platform so that at least two of the traps, including a first trap and a second trap, are positioned on substantially parallel longitudinal lines, the second surface of the platform opposite the first surface of the platform; the first trap configured to receive a first portion of a sheet; the second trap configured to receive a second portion of the sheet, the first portion of the sheet spaced from the second portion of the sheet such that when the first sheet portion is received by the first trap and the second sheet portion is received by the second trap, a third sheet portion between the first and second sheet portions is held against the first surface of the platform; wherein the first trap comprises: a first jaw comprising a base portion and a forward portion having a forward surface; and a semi-rigid second jaw comprising a base portion spaced from the base portion of the first jaw and a forward portion having a forward surface, the forward portion of the first jaw flexible in at least a first direction substantially orthogonal to the forward portion of the first jaw; wherein when the second jaw is relaxed, the forward portion of the second jaw is substantially coplanar with the forward portion of the first jaw and the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw faces the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw; and wherein when the second jaw is flexed in the first direction such as by the application of a force, the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw is spaced further from the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw than it is when the second jaw is relaxed; and wherein the robot is configured to move in the environment in accordance with logic contained in an on-board processor. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the platform is removably attached to the body. 3. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a sensor associated with the body of the robot, a portion of the sensor positioned within a hole in the platform, and the sensor configured to abut the third portion of the sheet received by the first and second traps. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first jaw of the first trap is substantially rigid. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein: the second jaw of the first trap further comprises a seal portion extending from the forward portion of the second jaw such that the forward portion has a forward surface which extends beyond the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw; a second surface adjacent to the forward surface, spaced from the forward portion of the second jaw, and facing substantially the first direction; and a third surface adjacent to the forward surface, between the second surface of the seal portion and a plane defined by the forward portion of the second jaw, and facing substantially opposite the first direction; wherein when the forward portion of the second jaw is relaxed, the third surface of the seal portion abuts a surface of the forward portion of the first jaw and when the forward portion of the second jaw is flexed in the first direction, the third surface of the seal portion is spaced from the surface of the forward portion of the first jaw. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein: the first jaw of the first trap further comprises a seal portion extending from the forward portion of the first jaw such that the forward portion has a forward surface which extends beyond the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw; a second surface adjacent to the forward surface, spaced from the forward portion of the first jaw, and facing substantially opposite the first direction; and a third surface adjacent to the forward surface, between the second surface of the seal portion and a plane defined by the forward portion of the first jaw, and facing substantially the first direction; wherein when the forward portion of the second jaw is relaxed, the third surface of the seal portion abuts a surface of the forward portion of the second jaw and when the forward portion of the second jaw is flexed in the first direction, the third surface of the seal portion is spaced from the surface of the forward portion of the first jaw. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw of the first trap has rounded teeth. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw of the first trap has angular teeth. 9. The robot of claim 1, wherein there is substantially no gap between the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw of the first trap and the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw of the first trap when the second jaw is relaxed. 10. The robot of claim 1, wherein the base portion of the first jaw of the first trap and the forward portion of the first jaw are integrally formed and wherein the base portion of the second jaw and the forward portion of the second jaw are integrally formed. 11. The robot of claim 1, wherein the second trap comprises: a first jaw comprising a base portion and a forward portion having a forward surface; and a semi-rigid second jaw comprising a base portion spaced from the base portion of the first jaw and a forward portion having a forward surface, the forward portion flexible in at least a first direction substantially orthogonal to the forward portion; wherein when the second jaw is relaxed, the forward portion of the second jaw is substantially coplanar with the forward portion of the first jaw and the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw faces the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw; and wherein when the second jaw is flexed in the first direction such as by the application of a force, the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw is spaced further from the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw than it is when the second jaw is relaxed. 12. The robot of claim 1, wherein the platform is rigid. 13. The robot of claim 1, wherein a semi-rigid pad is attached to the first surface of the platform and the third sheet portion is held against a lower surface of the semi-rigid pad. 14. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first trap is further configured such that when the second jaw of the first trap is relaxed, the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw of the first trap and the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw of the first trap are spaced further from each other at a first portion of the first trap than at a second portion of the first trap such that the first trap is not configured to grip a sheet at the first portion; the second trap is further configured such that when the second jaw of the second trap is relaxed, the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw of the second trap and the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw of the second trap are spaced further from each other at a first portion of the second trap than at a second portion of the second trap such that the second trap is not configured to grip a sheet at the first portion; wherein: the first portion of the first trap is substantially parallel to the first portion of the first trap; the structure is thereby configured to allow slack in a portion of a sheet gripped by the first trap and the second trap, the portion of the sheet between the portion of the first trap and the portion of the second trap. 15. A motorized apparatus comprising: a body; a platform associated with the body and having a first surface substantially parallel to and facing towards a surface in the environment over which the apparatus is configured to move; a motorized propulsion system associated with the body and configured to cause the apparatus to move in the environment; and a plurality of substantially longitudinal traps attached to a second surface of the platform so that at least two of the traps, including a first trap and a second trap, are positioned on substantially parallel longitudinal lines, the second surface of the platform opposite the first surface of the platform; the first trap configured to receive a first portion of a sheet; and the second trap configured to receive a second portion of the sheet, the first portion of the sheet spaced from the second portion of the sheet such that when the first sheet portion is received by the first trap and the second sheet portion is received by the second trap, a third sheet portion between the first and second sheet portions is held against the first surface of the platform; wherein the first trap comprises: a first jaw comprising a base portion and a forward portion having a forward surface; and a semi-rigid second jaw comprising a base portion spaced from the base portion of the first jaw and a forward portion having a forward surface, the forward portion of the second jaw flexible in at least a first direction substantially orthogonal to the forward portion of the second jaw; wherein when the second jaw is relaxed, the forward portion of the second jaw is substantially coplanar with the forward portion of the first jaw and the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw faces the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw; and wherein when the second jaw is flexed in the first direction such as by the application of a force, the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw is spaced further from the forward surface of the forward portion of the first jaw than it is when the second jaw is relaxed. 16. The motorized apparatus of claim 15, wherein the platform is magnetically attached to the body. 17. The motorized apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a sensor associated with the body of the motorized apparatus, the sensor configured to abut the third portion of the sheet received by the first and second traps. 18. The motorized apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first jaw of the first trap is substantially rigid. 19. The motorized apparatus of claim 15, wherein the forward surface of the forward portion of the second jaw of the first trap has rounded teeth and the forward portion of the first jaw of the first trap has angular teeth. 20. The motorized apparatus of claim 15, wherein the platform has a length of approximately 248 mm. 