In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, attractive haptic objects are associated with a target region for performing a medical procedure and repulsive haptic objects are associated with anatomical features to be avoided during the medical procedure. A surgeon may perform surgical planning by moving the haptic device around. The surgeon moves the haptic device until a pose is found where haptic cues from the attractive haptic objects are active indicating that a medical device if attached to the haptic device would reach the target region, and haptic cues from the repulsive haptic objects are inactive indicating that the medical device would not penetrate any of the anatomical features to be avoided. During the planning process a virtual tool may be displayed on a display device to indicate the position and/or movement of the medical device if the medical device had been coupled to the haptic device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for intra-operative planning of a medical procedure using a haptic device, comprising: registering said haptic device to at least a portion of an anatomy of a patient on which said medical procedure is to be performed; associating at least one attractive haptic object with a target region of said anatomy; associating at least one repulsive haptic object with at least one anatomical obstacle to be avoided during said medical procedure; providing at least one attractive haptic cue from said at least one attractive haptic object and at least one repulsive haptic cue from said at least one repulsive haptic object to guide a user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy such that a medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles; and providing a special haptic cue in response to canceling of haptic cues from at least two haptic objects. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a representation of at least said portion of said anatomy on a display device. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising registering said representation to said portion of said anatomy. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an input identifying said target region; and displaying a representation of said target region on a display device. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at least one input identifying said at least one anatomical obstacle; and displaying a representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle on a display device. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a virtual tool relative to a representation of said anatomy on a display device, wherein said virtual tool is a representation of said medical device. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising dynamically changing an orientation of said virtual tool displayed on said display device in response to a change in orientation of said haptic device. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: displaying a representation of said target region on said display device; and positioning said haptic device relative to said target region such that at least a portion of said virtual tool displayed on said display device intersects said representation of said target region. 9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: displaying a representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle on said display device; and positioning said haptic device relative to said target region such that said virtual tool displayed on said display device does not intersect said representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a virtual tool relative to a representation of said anatomy on a display device, wherein a position of said virtual tool relative to said representation of said anatomy indicates a position of said medical device relative to said anatomy portion. 11. A method for intra-operative planning of a medical procedure using a haptic device, comprising: displaying a computer reconstructed diagnostic representation of at least an internal portion of an anatomy of a patient on which said medical procedure is to be performed; registering said haptic device, said diagnostic representation, and said anatomy portion with each other; marking said target region on said displayed representation; identifying and marking at least one anatomical obstacle on said displayed representation; superimposing a virtual tool on the displayed representation; dynamically changing a position of said virtual tool displayed on said displayed representation in response to a change in position of said haptic device; associating at least one attractive haptic object with said target region; associating at least one repulsive haptic object with said at least one anatomical obstacle to be avoided during said medical procedure; providing at least one attractive haptic cue from said at least one attractive haptic object and at least one repulsive haptic cue from said at least one repulsive haptic object to guide a user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy such that a medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said providing step comprises guiding said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy in a pose in which said at least one attractive haptic cue is active. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said at least one active attractive haptic cue indicates that said medical device when coupled to said haptic device would intersect said target region. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said providing step further comprises guiding said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy in a pose in which all of said at least one repulsive haptic cues are inactive. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein inactivation of all of said at least one repulsive haptic cues indicates that said medical device when coupled to said haptic device would not intersect any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein said providing step comprises guiding said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy in a pose in which said at least one repulsive haptic cue is inactive. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein an angle of said virtual tool relative to said representation of said anatomy indicates an angle of said medical device relative to said anatomy portion. 18. The method of claim 11, further comprising locking said haptic device in a current pose in response to receiving an input from said; and, after locking the haptic device, activating or coupling the medical device to the haptic device. 19. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining, based at least in part on said at least one attractive haptic cue and said at least one repulsive haptic cue, a pose for said haptic device in which said medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 20. The method of claim 11, further comprising positioning, based at least in part on said at least one attractive haptic cue and said at least one repulsive haptic cue, said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy such that said medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 21. A method for intra-operative planning of a medical procedure using a haptic device, comprising: registering said haptic device to at least a portion of an anatomy of a patient on which said medical procedure is to be performed; associating at least one attractive haptic object with a target region of said anatomy portion; associating at least one repulsive haptic object with at least one anatomical obstacle to be avoided during said medical procedure; and providing (1) at least one attractive haptic cue from said at least one attractive haptic object, (2) at least one repulsive haptic cue from said at least one repulsive haptic object to guide a user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy, and (3) providing a special haptic cue in response to canceling of haptic cues from multiple haptic objects such that a medical device coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles when said medical device is in an operating state. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein said providing step comprises guiding said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy in a pose where said at least one attractive haptic cue is active. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said providing step further comprises guiding said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy in a pose where said at least one repulsive haptic cue is inactive. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising displaying a virtual tool relative to a representation of said anatomy on a display device, wherein said virtual tool is a representation of said medical device in its operating state. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising dynamically changing a position of said virtual tool displayed on said display device in response to a change in position of said haptic device. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising dynamically changing an orientation of said virtual tool displayed on said display device in response to a change in orientation of said haptic device. 27. The method of claim 24, further comprising: displaying a representation of said target region on said display device; and positioning said haptic device relative to said target region such that at least a portion of said virtual tool displayed on said display device intersects said representation of said target region. 28. The method of claim 24, further comprising: displaying a representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle on said display device; and positioning said haptic device relative to said target region such that said virtual tool displayed on said display device does not intersect said representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle. 29. A method for intra-operative planning of a medical procedure using a haptic device, comprising: registering said haptic device to at least one of a portion of an anatomy of a patient on which said medical procedure is to be performed and a displayed representation of said anatomy portion; associating at least one attractive haptic object with a target region of said anatomy portion; associating at least one repulsive haptic object with at least one anatomical obstacle to be avoided during said medical procedure; and determining, based at least in part on at least one attractive haptic cue provided by said at least one attractive haptic object and at least one repulsive haptic cue provided by said repulsive haptic object, a pose for said haptic device relative to said portion of said anatomy where a medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising attaching said medical device to said haptic device and positioning said haptic device in said pose relative to said portion of said anatomy. 31. The method of claim 29, further comprising locking said haptic device in said pose such that said medical device when coupled to said haptic device would intersect said target region. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein said determining step comprises determining, based at least in part on said at least one attractive haptic cue and said at least one repulsive haptic cue, said pose for said haptic device where said at least one attractive haptic cue is active and said at least one repulsive haptic cue is inactive. 33. The method of claim 29, wherein said determining step comprises determining, based at least in part on said at least one attractive haptic cue and said at least one repulsive haptic cue, said pose for said haptic device where said at least one attractive haptic cue is active and all of said at least one repulsive haptic cues are is inactive. 34. A system for intra-operative planning of a medical procedure using a haptic device, comprising: application logic operatively associated with said haptic device and operable to: register said haptic device to at least a portion of an anatomy of a patient to be operated on; provide at least one attractive haptic cue from at least one attractive haptic object associated with a target region of said anatomy on which said medical procedure is to be performed and at least one repulsive haptic cue from a repulsive haptic object associated with at least one anatomical obstacle to be avoided during said medical procedure to guide a user in positioning said haptic device in a pose relative to said target region such that a medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical; and lock in said pose in which the medical device intersects the target region without intersecting any of the at least one anatomical obstacles. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein said application logic is further operable to guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in a pose in which said at least one attractive haptic cue is active. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein said application logic is further operable to guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in a pose in which said at least one repulsive haptic cue is inactive. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein said application logic is further operable to guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in a pose in which all of said at least one repulsive haptic cues are inactive. 38. The system of claim 34, further comprising a display device operable to display a representation of said anatomy. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein said application logic is further operable to register said representation to said anatomy portion. 40. The system of claim 34, further comprising a display device operable to display a representation of said target region. 41. The system of claim 34, further comprising a display device operable to display a representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle. 42. The system of claim 34, wherein said application logic is further operable to provide a special haptic cue in response to canceling of haptic cues from at least two repulsive haptic objects. 43. The system of claim 34, wherein said application logic is further operable to display a virtual tool relative to a representation of said anatomy on a display device, wherein said virtual tool is a representation of said medical device. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein said application logic is further operable to dynamically change a position of said virtual tool displayed on said display device in response to a change in position of said haptic device. 45. The system of claim 43, wherein said application logic is further operable to dynamically change an orientation of said virtual tool displayed on said display device in response to a change in orientation of said haptic device. 46. The system of claim 43, wherein said application logic is further operable to: display a representation of said target region on said display device; and position said haptic device relative to said target region such that at least a portion of said virtual tool displayed on said display device intersects said representation of said target region. 47. The system of claim 43, wherein said application logic is further operable to: display a representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle on said display device; and position said haptic device relative to said target region such that said virtual tool displayed on said display device does not intersect said representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle. 48. The system of claim 34, wherein said application logic is further operable to determine, based at least in part on said at least one attractive haptic cue and said at least one repulsive haptic cue, a pose for said haptic device in which said medical device when coupled to said haptic device intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 49. A haptic surgical system, comprising: a computer-aided surgery system; a haptic device coupled to said computer-aided surgery system and registered to at least one of a portion of an anatomy of a patient on which said medical procedure is to be performed and a displayed representation of said anatomy portion; and intra-operative planning application logic operatively associated with said haptic device and operable to: with a surgical tool in a non-operative or detached state, provide at least one attractive haptic cue from at least one attractive haptic object associated with a target region of said anatomy of the patient and at least one repulsive haptic cue from a repulsive haptic object associated with at least one anatomical obstacle to be avoided during said medical procedure to guide a user in positioning said haptic device relative to said target region such that said surgical tool coupled to said haptic device in an operative and attached state intersects said target region without intersecting any of said at least one anatomical obstacles; and with said surgical tool in said operative and attached state, providing at least one haptic cue to constrain said surgical tool as said surgical tool is moved to said target region. 50. The haptic surgical system of claim 49, wherein said application logic is further operable to: guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in a pose in which said at least one attractive haptic cue is active; and guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in said pose in which said at least one repulsive haptic cue is inactive. 51. The haptic surgical system of claim 50, wherein said at least one active attractive haptic cue indicates that said medical device when in said operating state would intersect said target region. 52. The haptic surgical system of claim 49, wherein said application logic is further operable to: guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in a pose in which said at least one attractive haptic cue is active; and guide said user in positioning said haptic device relative to said anatomy in said pose in which all of said at least one repulsive haptic cues are inactive. 53. The haptic surgical system of claim 52, wherein inactivation of all of said at least one repulsive haptic cues indicates that said medical device when in said operating state would not intersect any of said at least one anatomical obstacles. 54. The haptic surgical system of claim 49, wherein said computer-aided surgery system comprises a display device operable to display a representation of said anatomy, a representation of said target region, and a representation of said at least one anatomical obstacle. 55. A surgical planning method comprising: displaying a diagnostic image of a portion of anatomy of a patient who is a candidate for a surgical procedure; on the image, designating a target region and at least an obstacle to be avoided; associating an attractive haptic object with the target region; associating a repulsive haptic object with each obstacle; registering a haptic device With the diagnostic image; with the haptic device, interacting with the attractive haptic object, and the repulsive haptic object to plan the surgical procedure. 56. The method of claim 55, further including: registering the haptic device with the anatomy portion; and performing the planned surgical procedure with the haptic device. 