A substrate processing method comprising steps for forming a copper film on a surface of a substrate. These steps includes the step of filling a first metal in the trenches so as to form a plated film of the first metal on an entire surface of the substrate by electroplating, wherein the electromagnetic field is adjusted by the virtual anode so that differences of thickness of the plated film between the central portion and the peripheral portion of the substrate being minimized, and polishing and removing the plated film by pressing the substrate to the polishing surface, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion are adjusted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of filling a metal in fine trenches in a surface of a substrate, comprising: forming a metal film on a surface of a substrate having fine trenches in the surface by electroplating, wherein an electric field between an anode and the surface is adjustable by a virtual anode; polishing the surface of the metal film by pressing the surface of the substrate to a polishing surface for removing a portion of the metal film, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion of the substrate are adjustable, and cleaning the polished surface of the substrate with a liquid. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the metal film is a copper film. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising removing the copper film on an edge portion of the peripheral portion of the substrate prior to the polishing. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising removing the copper film on the edge portion of the peripheral portion of the substrate and on a backside surface of the substrate prior to the polishing. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the edge portion is in the range of from 2 to 5 mm width from an edge of the substrate. 6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the removing the copper film on the edge portion of the peripheral portion of the substrate prior to the polishing is performed by etching with a liquid. 7. The method according to claim 2, further comprising depositing a protective layer on a surface of the polished copper film. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the protective layer is a metal layer. 9. The method according to claim 2, wherein the electroplating comprises a first stage electroplating with a first electric current and a second stage electroplating with a second electric current. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the first stage electroplating is performed in a first stage plating device and the second stage electroplating is performed in a second stage plating device. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising measuring a thickness of the metal film prior to the polishing. 12. The method according to claim 1, further comprising annealing the metal film prior to the polishing. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the electric field is adjustable by the virtual anode so that the difference of thicknesses of the metal film between the central portion and the peripheral portion of the substrate is reduced. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at the central portion and the peripheral portion of the substrate are adjustable to reduce a difference of thicknesses of the polished metal film between the central portion and the peripheral portion of the substrate. 15. A method of filling a metal in fine trenches in a surface of a substrate, comprising: forming a copper film on a surface of a substrate having fine trenches in the surface by electroplating, removing the copper film on an edge portion of the peripheral portion of the substrate; cleaning a surface of the copper film on the substrate with a water; polishing the surface of the copper film by pressing the surface of the substrate to a polishing surface for removing a portion of the copper film, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion of the substrate are adjustable, and cleaning the polished surface of the substrate with a liquid. 16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising annealing the copper film prior to the polishing the surface of the copper film. 