An autonomous robot is designed for docking in a docking station. The autonomous robot is configured such that it will locate the docking station and dock therein, before its battery power is exhausted. The docking is such that the autonomous robot is automatically charged, such that its batteries will be fully powered for the subsequent operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for docking an autonomous robot in a docking station comprising: monitoring battery voltage of the robot; initiating docking of the robot in the docking station when the battery voltage has been detected to have fallen to a first predetermined level; locating at least one signal for the docking station; and, while the battery voltage remains between the first predetermined level and a second predetermined level, the second predetermined level less than the first predetermined level, moving the robot toward the docking station. 2. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising: ceasing movement of the robot when the battery voltage has fallen to at least the second predetermined level. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the locating at least one signal for the docking station includes, seeking and detecting a signal from the docking station for a first time and detecting the signal from the docking station for a second time. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, moving the robot toward an obstacle. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, moving the robot along the obstacle to a point proximate the docking station. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, the robot performing at least one wiggle movement toward the docking station. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, terminating movement of the robot when the robot has reached the docking station and is in docking contact with the docking station. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the docking contact includes, at least one electrical contact between the robot and the docking station, the at least one electrical contact facilitating electricity for moving from the docking station to the robot for charging at least one battery in the robot. 9. The method of claim 7, additionally comprising: the robot performing vacuuming. 10. The method of claim 7, additionally comprising: the robot performing lawn mowing. 11. A method for docking an autonomous robot in a docking station comprising: monitoring battery voltage of the robot; initiating docking of the robot in the docking station when the battery voltage has been detected to have fallen to at least a first predetermined level; locating at least one signal for the docking station and confirming that the at least one signal for the docking station has been located; and, while the battery voltage remains between the first predetermined level and a second predetermined level, the second predetermined level less than the first predetermined level, moving the robot toward the docking station. 12. The method of claim 11, additionally comprising: ceasing movement of the robot when the battery voltage has fallen to at least the second predetermined level. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, moving the robot toward an obstacle. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, moving the robot along the obstacle to a point proximate the docking station. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, the robot performing at least one wiggle movement toward the docking station. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein moving the robot toward the docking station includes, terminating movement of the robot when the robot has reached the docking station and is in docking contact with the docking station. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the docking contact includes at least one electrical contact between the robot and the docking station, the at least one electrical contact facilitating electricity for moving from the docking station to the robot for charging at least one battery in the robot. 18. The method of claim 11, additionally comprising: the robot performing vacuuming. 19. The method of claim 11, additionally comprising: the robot performing lawn mowing. 20. An autonomous robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot over a surface; a power system for providing power to the robot, the power system including at least one sensor for detecting power levels; and a control system in communication with the movement system and the power system, the control system including a processor programmed to: monitor the power level of the power system; initiate a docking process for the robot to return to the docking station when the power level has fallen to a first a predetermined level; and, continue the docking process by causing the robot to move toward the docking until the power level has fallen to a second predetermined level, the second predetermined level being less than the first predetermined level. 21. The robot of claim 20, wherein the processor programmed to continue the docking process includes: causing the robot to move into contact with the docking station. 22. The robot of claim 20, wherein the processor is additionally programmed to: cause the robot to stop if the power level has fallen to at least the second predetermined level. 23. An autonomous robot comprising: a movement system for moving the robot over a surface; at least one sensor for detecting a signal for a docking station; a power system for providing power to the robot, the power system including at least one sensor for detecting power levels; and, a control system in communication with the movement system, the at least one sensor for detecting a signal for a docking station, and, the power system; the control system including a processor programmed to: monitor the power level of the power system; initiate a docking process for the robot to return to a docking station when the power level has fallen to a first a predetermined level; and, continue the docking process including: receiving at least one signal from the at least one sensor that a signal for a docking station has been detected; responding to the received at least one signal by causing the movement system to move the robot toward the docking station; and, continuing the docking process including, operating the robot until the power level has fallen to a second predetermined level, the second predetermined level being less than the first predetermined level. 24. The robot of claim 23, wherein the processor programmed to continue the docking process includes: causing the robot to move into contact with the docking station. 25. The robot of claim 23, wherein the processor is additionally programmed to: cause the robot to stop if the power level has fallen to at least the second predetermined level. 