A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system for effecting, via a network, robotic tissue manipulating movement within a patient in response to manual manipulation by a surgeon, the robotic surgical system comprising: a first input device; a first robotic arm; a linkage including a second robotic arm for interacting with the tissue; circuitry coupling the linkage to the network, the circuitry configured to communicating robotic information regarding the linkage over the network as a series of packets, each packet having an identifier indicating the source of the packet, and to interpret the packets from the network using the identifiers so that the second robotic arm is selectively moved in response to movement of the first input device without moving the first robotic arm in response to movement of the first input device. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to transmit the packets onto the network with the identifiers so that the first arm is selectively moved in response to movement of the second input device without moving the first arm in response to movement of the first input device. 3. A processor of a robotic surgical system, the robotic surgical system comprising a plurality of components for effecting robotic tissue manipulating movement within a patient in response to manual manipulation by a surgeon, the processor comprising: an output for transmitting signals to a plurality of robotic arm ports; an input for receiving commands from a plurality of input device ports; a master-slave controller for deriving signals configured to effect movement of each robotic arm in response to movement of an associated input device; and a memory embodying a start-up routine, the start-up routine configured to accommodate a hot plug of a first component of the robotic surgical system into the other components of the robotic surgical system after initialization of the system and without shutting the system down. 4. The processor of claim 3, wherein the first component comprises a robotic arm for manipulating the tissue or an input device for manipulation by the surgeon. 5. The processor of claim 4, wherein the start-up routine is configured to drive data of the first component to default values after booting the system and prior to hot plug of the first component into the system. 