An ellipsometric apparatus provides two impinging focused probe beams directed to reflect off the sample along two mutually distinct and preferably substantially perpendicular directions. A rotating stage rotates sections of the wafer into the travel area defined by two linear axes of two perpendicularly oriented linear stages. As a result, an entire wafer is accessed for measurement with the linear stages having a travel range of only half the wafer diameter. The reduced linear travel results in a small travel envelope occupied by the wafer and, consequently, a small footprint of the apparatus. The use of two perpendicularly directed probe beams permits measurement of periodic structures along a preferred direction while permitting the use of a reduced motion stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ellipsometer for evaluating characteristics of a semiconductor sample comprising: a broadband light source for generating a polychromatic probe beam; a first set of optics for selectively directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample at a non-normal angle of incidence and in a first direction; a second set of optics for selectively directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample at a non-normal angle of incidence and in a second direction different from the first direction; a detector system for selectively receiving the reflected probe beam from one of the first and second directions, said detector system for determining the change in polarization state of the beam induced by the sample and generating output signals in response thereto; and a processor for combining the output signals in a regression analysis to evaluate the characteristics of the sample. 2. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, wherein said broadband light source includes a first and second lamps with at least one of said lamps generating ultraviolet radiation. 3. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, wherein said detector system includes a grating and a CCD detector for generating output signals as a function of wavelength. 4. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, wherein the first direction is substantially perpendicular to the second direction. 5. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, wherein the detector system further includes a polarizing element and a retarding element positioned along the path of the probe beam. 6. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 5, wherein the retarding element is rotatable. 7. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, further including a stage means for moving the sample with respect to the probe beam, said stage means permitting both rotation and linear motion of the sample. 8. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, further including an optical element for selectively directing the probe beam into one of said first or second set of optics. 9. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 8, wherein said optical element is a movable mirror. 10. An ellipsometer as recited in claim 1, further including a movable mirror for selectively directing the beam to the detector system after reflection from the first and second directions. 