An apparatus incorporating small-feature size and large-feature-size components. The apparatus comprise a strap including a substrate with an integrated circuit contained therein. The integrated circuit coupling to a first conductor disposed on the substrate. The first conductor is made of a thermosetting or a thermoplastic material including conductive fillers. A large-scale component having a second conductor is electrically coupled to the first conductor to electrically couple the large-scale component to the integrated circuit. The large-scale component includes a second substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: attaching a first conductor formed on top of a first substrate containing a functional block to a second conductor of a large-scale component, the functional block being embedded in a first substrate and being electrically connected to the first conductor, and the large-scale component being formed on a second substrate; the first conductor being interconnected to the second conductor by an anisotropic conductive medium using one of thermosonic bonding and thermocompression bonding; each of the first conductor and the second conductor being independently made out of any one of a metal, a thermoplastic material, and a thermosetting material. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein any one of or both of the thermoplastic material and the thermosetting material is inherently conductive. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprises dispensing a plurality of small and sharp particles into the material used to make one of the first conductor and the second conductor to create a mechanical interlock to enhance the attachment between the first conductor and the second conductor. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprises dispensing the functional block into the first substrate using fluidic self assembly. 5. A method comprising: attaching a first conductor being made of a thermoplastic or a thermosetting material to an integrated circuit embedded in a first substrate, the first conductor electrically connected to the integrated circuit, the first conductor being formed on a top surface of the first substrate, wherein an anisotropic conductive medium is attached to the first conductor; and attaching a large-scale component to the first conductor, the large-scale component electrically connected to the first conductor, and the large-scale component formed on a second substrate. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising: embedding the integrated circuit in the first substrate. 7. The method of claim 5 further comprising: embedding the integrated circuit in the first substrate using fluidic self assembly. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein attaching the first conductor to the integrated circuit is accomplished by any one of screen printing, flatbed and rotary screen printing, stencil printing, ink jet printing, gravure printing, flexographic printing, pad stamping, electrostatic printing, dispensing through a needle and pipette, laminating, hot pressing, laser assisted chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, shadow masking, evaporating, extrusion coating, curtain coating, and electroplating. 9. The method of claim 5 further comprises attaching the anisotropic conductive medium to a second conductor included with the large-scale component to interconnect the integrated circuit to the large-scale component. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprises using one of thermosonic bonding and thermocompression bonding to facilitate the attaching of the conductive medium to any one of the first conductor and the second conductor. 11. A method comprising: embedding an integrated circuit into a first substrate and disposing a first conductor on a top surface of the first substrate, the integrated circuit electrically connected to the first conductor, the first conductor being made of a thermosetting material or a thermoplastic material; and electrically coupling a large-scale component having a second conductor to the integrated circuit, the second conductor being electrically coupled to the first conductor via an anisotropic conductive medium to electrically couple the large-scale component to the integrated circuit, the large-scale component including a second substrate. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein any one or both of the thermoplastic material and the thermosetting material is inherently conductive. 13. The method of claim 11 further comprises coupling the second conductor directly to the first conductor wherein an active surface of the integrated circuit faces the second conductor. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein an active surface of the integrated circuit faces the second conductor. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the thermoplastic material has conductive fillers. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the thermosetting material has conductive fillers. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the conductive medium is any one of a polymer carrier having conductive particles, an inherently conductive thermoplastic material, a thermoplastic material having conductive particles, an inherently conductive thermosetting material, a thermosetting material having conductive particles, a conductive polymer, a carbon-based conductor, a carrier having conductive fibers, a carrier having conductive carbon nanotubes, a pressure sensitive adhesive having conductive fillers, and a solder. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the integrated circuit is a circuit suitable for use with radio frequency, display, sensor, or phase array antenna applications. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the large-scale component includes an antenna, an electronic display, a display electrode, a sensor, a power source, a memory device, and a logic device formed on that second substrate. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the antenna is part of the second conductor. 21. The method of claim 11 further comprises dispensing a plurality of small and sharp particles in one of the first conductor or the second conductor, the particles to create a mechanical interlock between the first conductor and the second conductor when the first conductor and the second conductor are placed in immediate contact with one another. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein at least one of the first conductor and the second conductor is made of a thermosetting or a thermoplastic material. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the particles are coated with a conductive material. 24. The method of claim 21, forming an edge-seal around the edges of the first conductor and the second conductor. 25. The method of claim 11 further comprises dispensing a plurality of small and sharp particles in one of the first conductor and the second conductor to enhance contact to the first conductor or the second conductor. 26. The method of claim 11 further comprises forming a conductive medium on the first conductor to interconnect the first conductor to the second conductor and dispensing a plurality of small and sharp particles in the conductive medium. 27. The method of claim 11 further comprises disposing a plurality of small and sharp particles into the material used to make one of the first conductor and the second conductor to attach the first conductor to the second conductor. 