A method and apparatus for the transportation, remote and unattended mounting, and visual alignment and monitoring of protein crystals for synchrotron generated x-ray diffraction analysis. The protein samples are maintained at liquid nitrogen temperatures at all times: during shipment, before mounting, mounting, alignment, data acquisition and following removal. The samples must additionally be stably aligned to within a few microns at a point in space. The ability to accurately perform these tasks remotely and automatically leads to a significant increase in sample throughput and reliability for high-volume protein characterization efforts. Since the protein samples are placed in a shipping-compatible layered stack of sample cassettes each holding many samples, a large number of samples can be shipped in a single cryogenic shipping container.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of computer-controlled imaging of a particular sample assembly comprising the steps of: a. selecting a particular sample assembly from a cryogenic sample repository; b. removing the selected sample assembly from the sample repository; c. transferring the sample assembly to a three axis positioner mounted on a goniometer head; d. centering a sample mounted on the sample assembly at a software reference pixel location; e. exposing the centered sample to x-ray radiation to produce a crystallographic image at a sequence of rotational exposure angles while simultaneously maintaining the sample's cryogenic temperatures; f. replacing the sample assembly back in the cryogenic sample repository; and g. accomplishing at least one of said removing, transferring, and replacing using a sample gripper while keeping the sample at cryogenic temperature by drawing a vacuum to pull liquid nitrogen up and around a split collet in the sample gripper. 2. The method of computer-controlled imaging of a particular sample assembly of claim 1 wherein said centering step comprises: a. establishing a software reference pixel location; b. establishing an apparent center of the sample using a video display of the sample; and c. aligning the apparent center of the sample with the software reference pixel location. 3. The method of computer-controlled imaging of a particular sample assembly of claim 1 wherein said centering step comprises: centering the sample by backlighting the sample. 4. The method of computer-controlled imaging of a particular sample assembly of claim 1 wherein said keeping the sample at cryogenic temperature step comprises: a. keeping the sample at or below 78.degree. K. 5. The method of computer-controlled imaging of a particular sample assembly of claim 1 wherein said centering step comprises: a. measuring x-ray intensities as indicated by an x-ray data collection imaging device. 6. The method of computer-controlled imaging of a particular sample assembly of claim 1 wherein said centering step comprises: a. measuring data quality as indicated by an x-ray data collection imaging device. 