A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper is provided. The tote comprises a disposable exterior in which formed a main access flap and a pair of axially disposed core access openings. The tote has an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings. Both openings expose a molded coupling, one coupling attached to each end of the core. At least one of the couplings is a driven coupling and adapted to engage a driving spindle that rotates the core.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap, a pair of core access openings and, when the access flap is closed, a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior; an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings; a moulded coupling exposed by both openings, one coupling attached to each end of the core, at least one of the couplings being a driven coupling and adapted to engage a driving spindle that rotates the core; and a handle formed by two sub-units which fold from a flat position against the exterior to a cooperating position in which openings in each sub-unit align to form a grip, each sub-unit having an edge which is affixed to the exterior, adjacent to the gap. 2. The tote of claim 1, wherein: there is formed a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior, when the flap is closed. 3. The tote of claim 2, wherein: the adjacent edge includes a return lip. 4. The tote of claim 3, wherein: the return lip is folded from the exterior material. 5. The tote of claim 1, wherein: the exterior is formed from a non-metallic textile. 6. The tote of claim 1, wherein: the core is supported at each end by an inward facing hub which engages an interior of the core. 7. The tote of claim 6, wherein: each hub surrounded by a bearing surface which locates the hub in a respective access opening. 8. The tote of claim 7, wherein: the bearing surface makes contact with an inside bottom surface of the disposable exterior when the hub is located in the openings. 9. The tote of claim 8, wherein: the bearing surface is circular and connected to the hub by spokes. 10. The tote of claim 6, wherein: at least one hub has an axial coupling feature for engaging a rotating winding spindle. 11. The tote of claim 10, wherein: the coupling comprises a ring of teeth. 12. The tote of claim 1, wherein: the sub-units are arranged in a mirror image relationship about the gap. 13. The tote of claim 1, wherein: the exterior is dimensioned to fit between the loading spindles of a wallpaper printing machine. 14. The tote of claim 1, wherein: the exterior further comprises a viewing window. 15. The tote of claim 1, wherein: the exterior is adapted to hold about 50 meters of wallpaper wound onto a core. 16. The tote of claim 1, wherein one of the access openings exposes a coupling formed on a hub which carries the core, the tote further comprising a visible marker located on the exterior for indicating the location of the coupling. 