A container storage and delivery system includes an individual container storage and delivery system. A palletizer is provided for forming a group of containers from the individual container storage and delivery system into a layer or a partial layer, and placing this layer or partial layer onto a pallet. A high speed pick station provides access for manual retrieval of high throughput case types from each storage location. An individual container placement station is also provided for placing individual containers onto a pallet. A conveyor system conveys containers and pallets from the individual container storage and delivery system, the palletizer, the high speed pick station, and the individual container placement station.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for storing and delivering containers, comprising the steps of: providing an individual container storage and delivery system; providing a palletizer for forming a group of containers from said individual container storage and delivery system into a layer or a partial layer, and placing this layer or partial layer onto a pallet; a high speed pick station comprising a plurality of storage locations, each location storing a single container type, and providing access for manual retrieval of high throughput case types at a time from each storage location; providing an individual container placement station for placing individual containers onto a pallet; maintaining inventory data comprising position data for at least some containers in said system; receiving customer order data; and placing containers onto a pallet using said custom order data and said inventory data. 2. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining at least one pallet configuration from said order data and said inventory data, said pallet configuration including layers of containers for said pallet configuration; and, if said configuration of containers includes a plurality of containers of homogeneous SKUs, placing said homogeneous SKU containers on a pallet with said high speed pick station; if said configuration requires layers of homogeneous package type, placing said homogeneous package type containers on said pallet with said individual container storage and delivery system and said palletizer; and, if said configuration requires heterogeneous package types, placing said heterogeneous package types onto a pallet with said individual container placement station. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein, if said number of containers of homogeneous SKUs exceeds a predetermined threshold and said containers are available from said high speed pick station, causing said containers of homogeneous SKU's to be obtained from said high speed pick station and placed on a pallet and, if additional containers are required to complete said pallet configuration, directing said pallet to said individual container placement station and causing said individual container placement station to place said containers onto said pallet; and, if said number of containers does not exceed said predetermined threshold or if said containers are not available from the high speed pick station, causing said individual container storage and delivery system to deliver containers to said palletizer and causing said palletizer to place said containers onto a pallet and, if additional containers are required to complete said pallet configuration, causing said conveyor system to direct said pallet to said individual container placement station for placing said additional containers onto said pallet. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of determining layer configurations for heterogeneous layers of containers and placing said heterogeneous layers onto a pallet according to said layer configuration at said individual container placement station. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said heterogeneous layers comprise at least one selected from the group consisting of incomplete layers, and full layers having at least two different package types. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said individual container storage and delivery system is a vertically accumulating storage and dispensing apparatus. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of replenishing said individual container storage and delivery system with containers from a pallet storage area. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein after containers have been placed on said pallet by said palletizer, directing said pallet to said individual container placement station for placing individual containers on said pallet. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining low through-put containers, and maintaining said low through-put containers in a semi-automated vertically accumulating storage and delivery apparatus, and directing containers from said semi-automated storage and delivery apparatus to at least one of said palletizer and said individual container placement station. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining if full pallets of goods are necessary, and obtaining such full pallets from a storage area. 