A control system for a mobile robot (10) is provided to effectively cover a given area by operating in a plurality of modes, including an obstacle following mode (51) and a random bounce mode (49). In other embodiments, spot coverage, such as spiraling (45), or other modes are also used to increase effectiveness. In addition, a behavior based architecture is used to implement the control system, and various escape behaviors are used to ensure full coverage.
Claims We claim: 1. A mobile robot, comprising: a controllable drive element operable to move the robot over a surface; an obstacle detection sensor; and a control system operatively connected to said obstacle detection sensor and said controllable drive element; wherein said control system is configured to operate the robot in a plurality of operational modes including an obstacle-following mode in which said robot is controlled to travel adjacent to a detected obstacle for a distance of at least twice a working width of the robot in response to detection of the detected obstacle. 2. A mobile robot comprising: a controllable drive element operable to move the robot over a surface; an obstacle encounter sensor; and a control system operatively connected to said obstacle encounter sensor and said controllable drive element; said control system configured to operate the robot in a plurality of operational modes, and to switch between the modes in real time, said plurality of operational modes comprising: a spot-coverage mode whereby the robot operates in an isolated area, an obstacle following mode in which said robot follows a perimeter of an encountered obstacle, and a bounce mode in which the robot travels in a direction away from the perimeters of encountered obstacles; wherein said control system is configured to operate the robot in obstacle-following mode such that an average distance that the robot follows the perimeter of an encountered obstacle per obstacle-following mode initiation is equal to about twice a ratio of a working width (w) of the robot to a probability (p) of entering the obstacle-following mode upon an obstacle encounter. 3. The mobile robot of claim 2 wherein the robot enters the obstacle following mode upon every encounter or an obstacle, and the average distance that the robot travels adjacent to each obstacle is about twice the working width of the robot. 4. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein p is less than unity, and the average distance that the robot travels adjacent to each followed obstacle is greater than about twice the working width of the robot. 5. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the working width of the robot is approximately between 15 cm and 25 cm, p is approximately 0.095, and wherein the robot travels adjacent to each obstacle a distance no less than a minimum travel distance that is a randomly set distance between about 115 cm and about 350 cm, and no greater than a maximum travel distance that is a randomly set distance between about 170 cm and about 520 cm. 6. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein said control system is further configured to operate the robot to initiate obstacle-following always on a dominant side of the robot. 7. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein said plurality of operational modes further comprises spiraling inwardly and then, in the absence of an obstacle encounter, spirally outwardly. 8. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein said plurality of operational modes comprises spiraling outwardly and then, in response to a selected event, spiraling inwardly. 9. A mobile robot comprising: a controllable drive element operable to move the robot over a surface; an obstacle detection sensor; and and a control system operatively connected to said obstacle detection sensor and said controllable drive element; wherein said control system is configured to operate the robot in a plurality of operational modes including; a spot-covering mode in which the robot is controlled to move in a substantially spiral movement, an obstacle-following mode in which the robot is controlled to travel adjacent to a detected obstacle for a distance of at least twice a working width of the robot in response to detection of the detected obstacle, and a bounce mode in which the robot is controlled to travel substantially in a direction away from a detected obstacle; wherein the control system is configured to initiate obstacle-following mode in response to some obstacle detections, and to initiate bounce mode in response to other obstacle detections. 10. The mobile robot of claims 1 or 9, wherein said control system is further configured to operate the robot to initiate obstacle-following always on a dominant side of the robot. 11. The mobile robot of claims 1 or 9, wherein said plurality of operational modes further comprises spiraling inwardly and then, in the absence of an obstacle encounter, spirally outwardly. 12. The mobile robot of claims 1 or 9, wherein said plurality of operational modes comprises spiraling outwardly and then, in response to a selected event, spiraling inwardly. 