A manufacturing cell having a plurality of work stations, where at least one of the work station comprises a metalworking machine, and where at least one metalworking machine is provided with a modular tooling apparatus. The modular tooling apparatus consists of a base having one or more attachment surfaces, and one or more inserts that can be inserted semi-permanently to the attachment surfaces. The attachment surface is typically a pocket in the surface of the base. The insert has a workpiece support feature that can support and/or secure the workpiece into the proper position and orientation for machining. The base, pockets and inserts are configured to provide a characteristic location and orientation for the workpiece relative to the base, and to the metalworking machine. The modular tooling apparatus permits machining a family of workpiece members that are related but different in detail, by inserting an insert member from the family of inserts to properly position and orient the corresponding workpiece member, without needing to change, disconnect, or move the base tooling. The invention also provides a process for performing a plurality of metalworking operations on workpieces, employing the manufacturing cell described hereinabove.
Claims We claim: 1. A manufacturing cell for performing a plurality of metalworking operations on a workpiece, wherein the manufacturing cell comprises a plurality of work stations, and wherein at least one work station comprises: (a) a metalworking machine comprising a table; and (b) modular tooling apparatus secured to the table of the metalworking machine, the modular tooling apparatus comprising: (i) a base comprising: a securement for securing the base to the table of the metalworking machine; and at least one attachment surface comprising a locating feature on a surface thereof; (ii) at least a first set of inserts comprising a first insert and a second insert alternatively associated with the at least one attachment surface, each of the inserts comprising a locating feature and a workpiece support feature on a surface for alternately supporting a respective first and second workpiece, the first insert and second insert being related in general configuration, but different in detail, the detail being selected from size and proportion, and the first workpiece and second workpiece being related in general configuration, but different in detail, the detail being selected from size and proportion; wherein the association of each insert locating feature with the locating feature of the at least one attachment surface defines only one possible characteristic location for each workpiece support feature in a precise position and orientation in x, y and z space relative to the base with accuracy and repeatability, and wherein, when the base is aligned with the metalworking machine and secured to the table, the workpiece support feature of either associated insert supports and holds each of the respective first and second workpieces in a corresponding precise position and orientation in x, y and z space relative to the metalworking machine, for machining of the first workpiece and the second workpiece, without re-aligning the base with the metalworking machine when the first and second inserts are alternately associated with the at least one attachment surface. 2. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the modular tooling apparatus further comprises an insert securement. 3. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the at least one attachment surface comprises a first attachment surface and a second attachment surface, the first set of inserts being associated with the first attachment surface, and additionally comprising a second set of inserts comprising a first and a second insert, the second set of inserts being associated with the second attachment surface, wherein the first inserts of the first set and second set, alternatively with the second inserts of the first set and second set, associate with the first attachment surface and the second attachment surface, respectively. 4. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece support feature of each insert has a characteristic contour that confronts with and supports the confronting surface of the respective workpiece having a corresponding same characteristic contour. 5. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1 wherein the association of the second insert can support the second workpiece for machining without re-adjusting the metalworking machine. 6. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1 wherein the at least one attachment surface is a pocket. 7. The manufacturing cell according to claim 6, further comprising at least one insert securement for separably securing at least one of the first insert and second insert in the pocket. 8. The manufacturing cell according to claim 6 wherein at least one of the first insert and second insert has a pocket orientation feature whereby the at least one of the first insert and second insert can associate with the pocket in only one orientation. 9. The manufacturing cell according to claim 6 wherein at least one of the first insert and second insert comprises a workpiece orientation feature whereby the first workpiece can be associated with the respective workpiece support feature in only one orientation. 10. A manufacturing cell for performing a plurality of metalworking operations on a workpiece, wherein the manufacturing cell comprises a plurality of work stations, and wherein at least one work station comprises: (a) metalworking machine comprising a table; and (b) modular tooling apparatus secured to the table of the metalworking machine, the modular tooling apparatus comprising: (i) a base comprising: a securement for securing the base to the table of the metalworking machine; and at least first and second attachment surfaces, each of the attachment surfaces comprising a locating feature on a surface thereof; (ii) at least a first set of inserts comprising a first insert and a second insert associated with the first and second attachment surfaces, respectively, each of the inserts comprising a locating feature and a workpiece support feature on a surface thereof; wherein each insert locating feature is configured to associate with the corresponding attachment surface locating feature, thereby defining only one possible characteristic location for each workpiece support feature that provides the workpiece support feature with a precise position and orientation in x, y and z space relative to the base with accuracy and repeatability, and wherein, when the base is aligned with the metalworking machine and secured to the table, the workpiece support features of the associated first and second inserts collectively and cooperatively support and hold a first workpiece in corresponding precise position and orientation in x, y and z space relative to the metalworking machine, for machining of the first workpiece. 11. The manufacturing cell according to claim 10, additionally comprising a second set of inserts that can replace the first set of inserts, the second set of inserts being related in general configuration, but different in detail from the first set of inserts, the detail being selected from size and proportion, for performing a metalworking operation on a second workpiece that is related in general configuration but different in detail from the first workpiece, the detail being selected from size and proportion, and which have corresponding workpiece support features that collectively and cooperatively support and hold the second workpiece in a corresponding precise position and orientation in x, y and z space relative to the metalworking machine, for the proper machining of the second workpiece without re-aligning the base with the metalworking machine. 12. The manufacturing cell according to claim 11, wherein the workpiece support features of each set of inserts have a characteristic contour that confronts with and supports the confronting surface of the respective workpiece having a corresponding same characteristic contour. 13. The manufacturing cell according to claim 10 wherein at least one of the at least first and second attachment surfaces is a pocket. 14. The manufacturing cell according to claim 13, further comprising at least one insert securement for separably securing at least one of the first insert and second insert in the pocket. 15. The manufacturing cell according to claim 13 wherein at least one of the first insert and second insert has a pocket orientation feature whereby the at least one of the first insert and second insert can associate with the pocket in only one orientation. 16. The manufacturing cell according to claim 13 wherein at least one of the first insert and second insert comprises a workpiece orientation feature whereby the first workpiece can be associated with the respective workpiece support feature in only one orientation. 