Locking engagement connections between various components of a welding device can include tapered features having varied thread patterns and/or varied angles to ensure that the components remain tight during service. For example, locking engagement connections can be incorporated between a nozzle and a retaining head, a retaining head and a gooseneck, and/or a contact tip and a retaining head.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding device comprising: a first locking engagement connection disposed between a first component and a second component, and including a first tapered portion defining a first included angle and a first threaded portion disposed relative to the first tapered portion; and a second locking engagement connection disposed between the second component and a third component, and including a second tapered portion defining a second included angle and a second threaded portion disposed relative to the second tapered portion, wherein the second included angle is smaller than the first included angle, wherein upon application of a force to the first component, the first locking engagement connection adjusts before adjustment of the second locking engagement connection. 2. The welding device of claim 1 wherein the first component comprises a contact tip and the second component comprises a retaining head. 3. The welding device of claim 2 wherein the third component comprises a gooseneck. 4. The welding device of claim 3 further comprising a third locking engagement connection between a nozzle and the retaining head. 5. The welding device of claim 1 wherein the first locking engagement connection engages with a clamping force different than a clamping force of the second locking engagement connection. 6. The welding device of claim 5 wherein the clamping force of the second locking engagement connection is greater than the clamping force of the first locking engagement connection. 7. The welding device of claim 1 wherein the first locking engagement connection disengages before the second locking engagement connection upon application of a loosening force. 8. The welding device of claim 1 wherein the force comprises a torquing force. 9. The welding device of claim 1, wherein a first diameter of the first locking engagement connection is smaller than a second diameter of the second locking engagement connection. 10. A welding device comprising: a first locking engagement connection disposed between a first component and a second component, and including a first tapered portion defining a first included angle and a first threaded portion disposed relative to the first tapered portion; and a second locking engagement connection disposed between a third component and a fourth component, and including a second tapered portion defining a second included angle and a second threaded portion disposed relative to the second tapered portion, wherein the second included angle is smaller than the first included angle, wherein upon application of a force to the first component, the first locking engagement connection adjusts before adjustment of the second locking engagement connection. 11. The welding device of claim 10 wherein the second component and the third component comprise portions of the same component. 12. The welding device of claim 11 further comprising a third locking engagement connection disposed between the third component and a fifth component. 13. The welding device of claim 10 wherein the first locking engagement connection engages with a clamping force different than a clamping force of the second locking engagement connection. 14. The welding device of claim 13 wherein the clamping force of the second locking engagement connection is greater than the clamping force of the first locking engagement connection. 15. The welding device of claim 10 wherein the first locking engagement connection disengages before the second locking engagement connection upon application of a loosening force. 16. The welding device of claim 10 wherein the force comprises a torquing force. 17. The welding device of claim 10, wherein a first diameter of the first locking engagement connection is smaller than a second diameter of the second locking engagement connection. 18. A retaining head comprising: a first tapered surface disposed relative to a first threaded portion and adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a first member; and a second tapered surface disposed relative to a second threaded portion and adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a second member; wherein upon application of a force to the first member, the locking engagement between the tapered surfaces of the retaining head and the first member adjusts before adjustment of the locking engagement between the tapered surfaces of the retaining head and the second member. 19. The retaining head of claim 18 further comprising a third tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a third member. 20. The retaining head of claim 18 wherein the force comprises a torquing force. 21. The retaining head of claim 18 wherein at least one of the first threaded portion is disposed substantially adjacent the first tapered surface or the second threaded portion is disposed substantially adjacent the second tapered surface. 22. The retaining head of claim 18, wherein a first diameter of the first threaded portion is smaller than a second diameter of the second threaded portion. 23. A method of engaging components of a welding device, comprising: providing a first locking engagement connection disposed between a first component and a second component, and including a first tapered portion defining a first included angle and a first threaded portion disposed relative to the first tapered portion; providing a second locking engagement connection disposed between the second component and a third component, and including a second tapered portion defining a second included angle and a second threaded portion disposed relative to the second tapered portion, the second included angle being smaller than the first included angle, and applying a force to the first component so that the first locking engagement connection adjusts before adjustment of the second locking engagement connection. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising engaging the first locking engagement connection with a clamping force greater than a clamping force of the second locking engagement connection. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein, upon application of a loosening force, the first locking engagement connection disengages before the second locking engagement connection. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein at least one of the first locking engagement connection and the second locking engagement connection improves electrical conductivity between adjacent components of the welding device. 27. The method of claim 23 wherein at least one of the first locking engagement connection and the second locking engagement connection improves heat transfer between adjacent components of the welding device. 28. The method of claim 23 wherein applying a force between the first component and the third component comprises applying a torquing force between the first component and the third component. 29. A method of engaging components of a welding device, comprising: providing a retaining head comprising a first threaded portion disposed relative to a first tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a first member and a second threaded portion disposed relative to a second tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a second member; and applying a force to the first member so that the locking engagement between the tapered surfaces of the retaining head and the first member adjusts before adjustment of the locking engagement between the tapered surfaces of the retaining head and the second member. 30. An apparatus for engaging components of a welding device, comprising: a retaining head comprising: a first threaded portion disposed relative to a first tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a first member; and a second threaded portion disposed relative to a second tapered surface adapted for locking engagement with a tapered surface of a second member; and a means for applying a force to the first member so that the locking engagement between the tapered surfaces of the retaining head and the first member adjusts before adjustment of the locking engagement between the tapered surfaces of the retaining head and the second member. 