In one embodiment, a robotic manipulator arm includes a robotic joint, a rotational position sensor, and a control system. The rotational position sensor is coupled to the main housing of the robotic joint. The control system is connected to the rotational position sensor. During normal rotational motion toward a commanded motor position of joint output, the control system determines that normal joint un-slipped motion is occurring with respect to the joint output in response to the motor input commands. Responsive to joint slip during commanded motor motion, the control system compares position data from the rotational position sensor to commanded motor position to generate an error value and, based on the error value, compensates for the joint slip.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic joint comprising: a rotational position sensor operatively coupled to a main housing member of the robotic joint; a control system operatively coupled to the rotational position sensor; the control system, during normal rotational joint motion towards a commanded motor position of joint output, determining that normal joint un-slipped motion is occurring with respect to the joint output responsive to motor input commands; the control system, responsive to joint slip during commanded motor motion, comparing position data from the rotational position sensor to commanded motor position to generate an error value; and the control system, based on the error value, compensating for the joint slip. 2. The robotic joint of claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to compensate for the joint slip by determining and applying a set of motor commands to correct the joint slip and drive the joint output until the rotational sensor senses the commanded motor position, the commanded motor position being a predetermined desired rotational position of the joint output. 3. The robotic joint of claim 1, wherein compensating for the joint slip further comprises re-positioning the joint output using one or more non-contacting joint position sensors. 4. The robotic joint of claim 3, wherein the one or more non-contacting joint position sensors comprise magnetic, optical, and linear variable differential transformer joint position sensors. 5. The robotic joint of claim 1, further comprising a clutch mounted in the robotic joint configured to allow for the joint slip based on a pre-determined joint torque that sets a minimum torque that causes the joint slip. 6. The robotic joint of claim 5, wherein the pre-determined joint torque is configurable. 7. The robotic joint of claim 5, further comprising a position tube in communication with the rotational position sensor and the clutch, the position tube being mounted to provide a fixed reference base for the rotational position sensor and connection of a rotational portion of the rotational position sensor to a moving portion of the robotic joint to determine the position data. 8. The robotic joint of claim 5, wherein the robotic joint is a first robotic joint, and wherein wires for connecting a second robotic joint to the first robotic joint extend through the passage and position tube. 9. A robotic joint comprising: a joint having a first axis of rotation; a gear set, located in line with the first axis of rotation, the gear set having a first opening through an interior portion of the gear set; a clutch, in communication with the gear set, the clutch having a second opening through an interior portion of the clutch, the first and second openings lining up to form a continuous passage through the clutch and gear set, the continuous passage allowing for extension through the clutch and gear set without interference to the operation of the clutch and gear set; and a motor, in communication with the gear set, a motor output of the motor having a second axis of rotation perpendicular to the first axis of rotation. 10. The robotic joint of claim 9, wherein the robotic joint is a first robotic joint, and wherein wires run through the continuous passage for connection to a second robotic joint, the second robotic joint being of a same design as the first robotic joint. 11. The robotic joint of claim 10, wherein the clutch includes a clamping assembly to change a tension on a first clutch portion and a second clutch portion of the clutch, a change in the tension by the clamping assembly resulting in a change in the configurable joint torque corresponding to the tension, wherein the clamping assembly clamps the first clutch portion and the second clutch portion together. 12. The robotic joint of claim 9, wherein a configurable joint torque sets a minimum torque that causes a slip of the clutch. 13. The robotic joint of claim 9, further comprising: a worm and worm gear set in communication with the motor, the worm transferring power to the worm gear set; and a belt, communicating with the motor and the worm, wherein the motor communicates with the worm through the belt, wherein the configuration of the worm and belt positions the motor to engage the gear set in a position offset from an end of the gear set such that the motor is in line with the gear set, therefore reducing a profile of the gear set and motor combination. 14. The robotic joint of claim 9, further comprising a position sensor in communication with the joint such that the position sensor measures the position of the joint. 15. The robotic joint of claim 14, wherein a reference portion of the position sensor provides a fixed reference base of a fixed portion of the robotic joint, and wherein a rotational portion of the sensor is operative coupled to a moving portion of the robotic joint to measure rotational position of the moving portion in relation to the fixed portion. 16. The robotic joint of claim 14, wherein the robotic joint further comprises: a position tub extending through the continuous passage, the rotational portion of the position sensor being mounted on the position tube, the position tube being the moving portion; and wherein the clutch has a first clutch portion and a second clutch portion, the first clutch portion being non-slippably connected to the joint and the second clutch portion being non-slippably connected to the gear set, the position tube connected to the first clutch portion, such that rotation of the first clutch portion is translated to the position tube. 17. The robotic joint of claim 16, wherein the second clutch portion has a conical surface that corresponds to a corresponding and mated conical surface in the first clutch portion. 18. The robotic joint of claim 14, further comprising: a processor operatively coupled to the position sensor and the motor, the processor comprising computer program instructions, the computer-program instructions, when executed by the processor, for performing operations comprising: sending first commands to the motor indicating movement for the motor to position a moveable portion of the robotic joint in a desired position; receiving a signal from the position sensor indicating an actual position of the moveable portion; determining whether a slippage between the moveable portion and a fixed portion of the robotic joint has occurred based on the signal and the first commands; and responsive to determining that the slippage is not null, sending second commands to the first motor to compensate for the slippage. 19. The robotic joint of claim 18, wherein the computer-program instructions further comprise instructions for: receiving motion control commands from a central control unit remote from the robotic joint; and executing operations based on the motion control commands to position the moveable portion to a predetermined position. 20. The robotic joint of claim 19, wherein the computer-program instructions further comprise instructions for positioning the moveable portion to the pre-determined position independent of any further communication from the central control unit and the slippage. 21. The robotic joint of claim 19, further comprising a user interface (UI) for selective activation by a user, the UI being operatively coupled to the robotic joint, the UI allowing the user to manually move the moveable portion of the robotic joint independent of the motion control commands. 22. The robotic joint of claim 9, further comprising a structural member providing a manipulating arm attached to the joint, wherein the structural member is hollow and the motor is located in the structural member adjacent to the joint. 23. The robotic joint of claim 22, wherein the robotic joint is a first robotic joint and the motor is a first motor, and wherein the structural member comprises couplings to connect the first robotic joint to a second robotic joint of a same design as the first robotic joint, an interior portion of the structural member being configured to additionally encapsulate the second motor in coupling the first robotic joint to the second robotic joint. 