A laser based tracking unit communicates with a target to obtain position information about the target. Specifically, the target is placed at the point to be measured. The pitch, yaw and roll movements of the target, and the spherical coordinates of the target relative to the tracking unit are then obtained. The target can be, for example, an active device incorporated into a moveable device such as a remote controlled robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote unit associated with a multi-dimensional measuring system comprising: a target in communication with a tracking unit of the multi-dimensional measuring system, the target being capable of making pitch, yaw, and roll movements; and a probe assembly coupled to the target, the probe assembly comprises a probe tip, a probe stem, and a probe base, wherein the probe tip is configured to reach locations not within a line of sight between the tracking unit and the target. 2. The remote unit of claim 1, further comprising one or more encoders coupled to the probe assembly. 3. The remote unit of claim 2, wherein at least one of the encoders is configured to determine a first angular position of the probe tip relative to the probe base. 4. The remote unit of claim 3, wherein at least one of the encoders is configured to determine a second angular position of the probe tip relative to the probe base. 5. The remote unit of claim 2, wherein at least one of the encoders is configured to determine an axial position of the probe tip relative to the probe base. 6. The remote unit of claim 2, further comprising a trigger configured to effect one or more measurements associated with a location touched by the probe tip. 7. The remote unit of claim 2, further comprising a touch sensor associated with the probe tip, wherein one or more measurements associated with a location is taken when the touch sensor comes into contact with the location. 8. A remote unit of a multi-dimensional measuring system comprising: a target in line of site communication with a tracking unit of the multi-dimensional measuring system, the target being capable of making pitch, yaw, and roll movements; a probe assembly coupled to the target, the probe assembly comprising a probe tip, a probe stem, and a probe base, wherein the probe tip is configured to reach locations not within the line of sight between the tracking unit and the target; and a trigger configured to effect one or more measurements associated with a location touched by the probe tip. 9. The remote unit of claim 8, further comprising one or more encoders coupled to the probe assembly. 10. The remote unit of claim 9, wherein at least one of the encoders is configured to determine a first angular position of the probe tip relative to the probe base. 11. The remote unit of claim 10, wherein at least one of the encoders is configured to determine a second angular position of the probe tip relative to the probe base. 12. The remote unit of claim 9, wherein at least one of the encoders is configured to determine an axial position of the probe tip relative to the probe base. 13. The remote unit of claim 8, further comprising a touch sensor associated with the probe tip, wherein one or more measurements associated with a location is taken when the touch sensor comes into contact with the location. 14. The remote unit of claim 8, wherein the probe stem is configured to pivot about the probe base along a circle. 15. The remote unit of claim 8, wherein the probe stem is configured to move about two axes. 16. The remote unit of claim 8, wherein the probe stem is configured to pivot in thee dimensions about the base. 17. The remote unit of claim 8, wherein the probe stem is configured in an L-shape. 18. The remote unit of claim 8, wherein the probe stem is configured to telescope, such that a length of the probe stem is variable. 