A robot device includes a sensor on its base plate capable of sensing rotation of the base plate occasioned by decoupling of a detachable joint that joins a forearm member of the robot to the base plate. The sensor produces an output signal which, if above a preset threshold, shuts off the motors driving the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robot for picking up and placing products in a three-dimensional space, said robot comprising a main casting from which a plurality of arms are pivotally joined for rotation about a corresponding plurality of axes, the main casting supporting a servo motor connected individually in driving relation to each of the plurality of arms, a base plate suspended from at least one of the plurality of arms where the at least one arm member includes a detachable joint on an opposed end thereof for joining to the base plate at one of the opposed ends, said plurality of arms acting in concert to constrain the base plate to pure translational motion, the improvement comprising: (a) angular rate sensing means affixed to the base plate for sensing at least one of inclination and rotation of the base plate upon detachment of said detachable joint from the base plate and producing an electrical control signal; and (b) a control circuit coupled to the servo motors and responsive to said electrical control signal for de-energizing the servo motors. 2. The robot as in claim 1 wherein the sensing means comprises a solid state angular rate sensor. 3. The robot as in claim 2 wherein the angular rate sensor produces an electrical control signal proportional to the rate of rotation of the base plate about a predetermined axis. 4. The robot as in claim 3 wherein the control circuit includes a circuit for comparing the electrical control signal to a predetermined threshold value and a switching circuit for inhibiting current delivery to said servo motors when the electrical control signal exceeds said threshold. 5. The robot as in claim 1 and further including an end effector suspended from the base plate. 6. The robot as in claim 4 where said electrical control signal is transmitted via a cable to the control circuit. 7. The robot as in claim 4 where said electrical control signal is transmitted wirelessly to the control circuit. 8. The robot as in claim 1 where the sensing means is battery powered. 