A high throughput microarraying or colony picking robot with an automatic mechanism for exchanging pin heads and an automated washing and drying apparatus. The robot allows a dirty pin head to be deposited on the automated washing and drying apparatus for cleaning without use of the xyz-positioner, while spotting or picking can continue by picking up a clean pin head without having to wait for the dirty pin head to be cleaned. In this way, the speed of operation can be increased without any increase in the acceleration or speed of the x-, y- and z-drives. The dead time normally associated with the washing and drying cycle, which is usually several minutes, is therefore eliminated, and replaced with the much shorter dead time, of only a few tens of seconds, needed for changing between heads.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated spotting or picking process using a robot that comprises a single xyz positioning apparatus comprising x- y- and z-positioners for moving a head attached to it around the robot, wherein heads can be clamped to and released from the xyz positioning apparatus in an automated manner by an attachment mechanism, the process comprising the steps of: (a) performing spotting or picking using a first pin head attached to the xyz positioning apparatus; (b) depositing the first pin head from the xyz positioning apparatus into a parking bay of an automated washing and drying apparatus for it to be cleaned in the automated washing and drying apparatus without involvement of the xyz positioning apparatus; (c) cleaning the first pin head in the automated washing and drying apparatus without involvement of the xyz positioning apparatus; (d) picking up a second pin head that is clean with the xyz positioning apparatus; (e) performing spotting or picking with the second pin head attached to the xyz positioning apparatus; (f) depositing the second pin head from the xyz positioning apparatus into the parking bay of the automated washing and drying apparatus for it to be cleaned in the automated washing and drying apparatus without the involvement of the xyz positioning apparatus; (g) cleaning the second pin head in the automated washing and drying apparatus without involvement of the xyz positioning apparatus; (h) picking up the first pin head that has been cleaned in the automated washing and drying apparatus with the xyz positioning apparatus; (i) performing spotting or picking with the first pin head attached to the xyz positioning apparatus; and (j) repeatedly carrying out (b) to (i). 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated washing and drying apparatus comprises a first automated washing and drying station and a second automated washing and drying station. 3. The process of claim 2, wherein each washing and drying station has a parking bay into which a pin head can be deposited. 4. The process of claim 2, wherein the first automated washing and drying station is used for washing and drying the first pin head and the second automated washing and drying station is used for washing and drying the second pin head. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the automated washing and drying apparatus comprises a single automated washing and drying station. 6. The process of claim 5, wherein the automated washing and drying station comprises first and second parking bays in which pin heads can be deposited, and a drive for shuttling between them so that a pin head in either parking bay can be washed and dried. 7. The process of claim 5, wherein the automated washing and drying station comprises a parking bay, and the robot has at least first and second further parking bays, and is programmed so that the positioning apparatus can swap a dirty pin head for a clean pin head to perform steps (b) and (d) or (f) and (h) by: (i) depositing the dirty pin head in the first further parking bay; (ii) picking up the clean pin head from the washing and drying station and depositing it in the second further parking bay; (iii) picking up the dirty pin head from the first further parking bay and depositing it in the parking bay of the automated washing an drying station; and (iv) picking up the clean pin head from the second further parking bay. 