A robotic system that includes a mobile robot linked to a plurality of remote stations. The robot provides both audio and visual information to the stations. One of the remote stations, a primary station, may control the robot while receiving and providing audio and visual information with the remote controlled robot. The other stations, the secondary stations, may also receive the audio and visual information transmitted between the robot and the primary station. This allows operators of the secondary stations to observe, communicate and be trained through the robot and primary station. Such an approach may reduce the amount of travel required to train personnel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot system, comprising: a mobile robot that can move across a surface, said mobile robot has a monitor and a camera that captures a video image, said monitor and camera move together in at least one degree of freedom; a first remote station that has a first monitor and an input device that receives input to cause movement of said mobile robot, said first monitor displays the video image, said first remote station being separate from said mobile robot; and, a second remote station that has a second monitor that also displays the video image, said second remote station being separate from said mobile robot. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first remote station receives the video image from said mobile robot, and retransmits the video image to said second remote station. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot broadcast the video image to said first and second remote stations. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot has a microphone, and said first and second remote stations each have a speaker that receive a sound from said microphone. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot includes a monitor and a speaker, and said first remote station includes a camera and a microphone. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot includes a platform that provides three degrees of freedom. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a base station wirelessly coupled to said mobile robot. 8. A mobile robot system, comprising: a mobile robot that can move across a surface, has a monitor and a camera that capture a video image, said monitor and camera move together in at least one degree of freedom; first remote station means for controlling movement of said mobile robot and displaying the video image, said first remote station means being separate from said mobile robot; and, second remote station means for displaying the video image, said second remote station means being separate from said mobile robot. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said first remote station means receives the video image from said mobile robot, and retransmits the video image to said second remote station means. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein said mobile robot broadcast the video image to said first and second remote stations means. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein said mobile robot has a microphone, and said first and second remote station means each emit a sound provided by said microphone. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein said mobile robot includes a monitor and a speaker, and said first remote station means includes a camera and a microphone. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein said mobile robot includes a platform that provides three degrees of freedom. 14. The system of claim 8, further comprising a base station wirelessly coupled to said mobile robot. 15. A method for operating a mobile robot, comprising: controlling movement of a mobile robot across a surface through a first remote station that is separate from the mobile robot, the mobile robot having a monitor and a camera that captures a video image, said monitor and camera move together in at least one degree of freedom; displaying the video image at the first remote station and a second remote station that is separate from the mobile robot. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the first remote station receives and retransmits the video image to the second remote station. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the mobile robot broadcast the video image to the first and second remote stations. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising generating a sound at the first and second remote stations that is provided by the mobile robot. 19. A mobile robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a mobile robot that can move across a surface, said mobile robot being coupled to said broadband network and has a monitor and camera that captures a video image, said monitor and a camera move together in at least one degree of freedom; a first remote station that is coupled to said broadband network, said first remote station has a first monitor and an input device that receives input to cause movement of said mobile robot, said first monitor displays the video image from said camera, said first remote station being separate from said mobile robot; and, a second remote station that is coupled to said broadband network and has a second monitor that also displays the video image, said second remote station being separate from said mobile robot. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein said first remote station receives the video image from said mobile robot through said broadband network, and retransmits the video image to said second remote station. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein said mobile robot broadcast the video image to said first and second remote stations through said broadband network. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein said mobile robot has a microphone, and said first and second remote stations each have a speaker that receive a sound from said microphone transmitted through said broadband network. 23. The system of claim 19, wherein said mobile robot includes a monitor and a speaker, and said first remote station includes a camera and a microphone. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein said mobile robot includes a platform that provides three degrees of freedom. 25. The system of claim 19, further comprising a base station that is coupled to said broadband network and wirelessly coupled to said mobile robot. 26. A mobile robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a mobile robot that is coupled to said broadband network and has a monitor and a camera that captures a video image, said monitor and camera move together in at least one degree of freedom, that is transmitted through said broadband network; first remote station means for controlling movement of said mobile robot and displaying the video image transmitted through said broadband network, said first remote station means being separate from said mobile robot; and, second remote station means for displaying the video image, said second remote station means being separate from said mobile robot. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein said first remote station means receives the video image from said mobile robot, and retransmits the video image to said second remote station. 28. The system of claim 26, wherein said mobile robot broadcast the video image to said first and second remote stations means. 29. The system of claim 26, wherein said mobile robot has a microphone, and said first and second remote station means each emit a sound provided by said microphone transmitted through said broadband network. 30. The system of claim 26, wherein said mobile robot includes a monitor and a speaker, and said first remote station means includes a camera and a microphone. 31. The system of claim 26, wherein said mobile robot includes a platform that provides three degrees of freedom. 32. The system of claim 26, further comprising a base station that is coupled to said broadband network and is wirelessly coupled to said mobile robot. 33. A method for operating a mobile robot, comprising: controlling movement of a mobile robot across a surface through a first remote station and a broadband network, the mobile robot having a monitor and a camera that captures a video image, said monitor and camera move together in at least one degree of freedom, the first remote station being separate from the mobile robot; transmitting the video image through the broadband network; and, displaying the video image at the first remote station and a second remote station that is separate from the mobile robot. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the first remote station receives and retransmits the video image to the second remote station. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein the mobile robot broadcast the video image to the first and second remote stations. 36. The method of claim 33, further comprising generating a sound at the first and second remote stations that is provided by the mobile robot. 