A method of operating an automated land maintenance vehicle over a work area includes (a) determining a work regime by dividing the work area into regions; selecting at least one instruction for the vehicle to follow with respect to each region; providing data relating to the regions and to the associated instructions to a processor; computing, by the processor, the work regime for the vehicle from the data; and (b) providing data relating to the work regime to a controller of the vehicle, whereby the vehicle is operated to follow the work regime.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of operating an automated land maintenance vehicle over a work area defined by a closed boundary so as to create a desired visually discernible pattern on the surface of the work area, the method comprising: (a) determining a work regime by: dividing the work area into a plurality of regions in accordance with the visually discernible pattern desired on the surface; selecting an instruction for the vehicle to follow with respect to each region, the selection of the instruction being determined on the basis of that part of the visually discernible pattern contributed by said region; providing data relating to the regions and to the associated instructions to processing means; and computing, by the processing means, the work regime for the vehicle from the data; and (b) providing data relating to the work regime to the control means of the vehicle whereby the vehicle is operated to follow the work regime, thereby creating the desired visually discernible pattern on the surface of the work area. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the work regime is defined as a number of strokes and manoeuvres and a type of maintenance operation required. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein an instruction comprises instructing the vehicle to perform a maintenance procedure in the region. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said maintenance procedure comprises mowing grass. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said maintenance procedure comprises rolling grass in a determined direction. 6. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said maintenance procedure comprises hollow coring. 7. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said maintenance procedure comprises slitting. 8. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said maintenance procedure comprises top dressing. 9. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of selecting an instruction further comprises selecting a direction of travel for the vehicle in the region. 10. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of selecting an instruction further comprises selecting a path for the vehicle to travel over in the region. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the path is curved. 12. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein an instruction comprises allowing the vehicle to travel through a region without performing a maintenance operation. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein an instruction comprises instructing the vehicle to avoid a region. 14. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a plurality of work regimes are followed in turn in a single operation on the work area. 15. Ground maintenance equipment comprising: an automated land maintenance vehicle for operation over a work area defined by a closed boundary; control means on the vehicle for controlling the operation of the vehicle so as to create a desired visually discernible pattern on the surface of the work area; means for inputting a first set of data relating to a plurality of work regions in accordance with the visually discernible pattern desired on the surface; means for inputting a second set of data relating to instructions to be followed with respect to each region, the selection of the instructions being determined on the basis of that part of the visually discernible pattern contributed by said region; processing means for computing a work regime for said vehicle from said first and second sets of data; means for providing the data relating to the work regime to the vehicle control means, wherein the vehicle is operated to follow the work regime, thereby creating the desired visually discernible pattern on the surface of the work area. 16. Ground maintenance equipment as claimed in claim 15, wherein the means for inputting said first and second sets of data comprise a handheld interface. 17. Ground maintenance equipment as claimed in claim 16, wherein the handheld interface further comprises said processing means for computing a work regime. 18. Ground maintenance equipment as claimed in claim 15, wherein the first and second sets of data are input using a graphical display. 19. Ground maintenance equipment as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processing means is implemented in software. 20. Ground maintenance equipment as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processing means is implemented in hardware. 