Disclosed are methods and apparatus for facilitating procedures implemented on an analysis tool are provided herein. In one embodiment, an apparatus includes an analyzer module arranged for managing an analyzer tool and causing a high resolution image generated by the analyzer tool to be presented in a display. The apparatus also includes an inspector interface module arranged for simulating an inspector interface in the display. The inspector interface includes features that are available on a corresponding inspection tool, and the inspector interface is based at least in part on defect results from the inspection tool. In one embodiment, the analyzer module executes without knowledge of the inspector interface module and visa versa, and the apparatus includes a synchronization mechanism that knows about these two modules and also is capable of communicating with these two modules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for analyzing defects on a sample, comprising: an analyzer tool arranged for receiving defect results that were generated from an inspection tool, imaging a defect on the sample and generating a high resolution image; at least one display device arranged for presenting the high resolution image generated by the analyzer tool; an analyzer module arranged for managing the analyzer tool and causing the high resolution image generated by the analyzer tool to be presented in the at least one display device; an inspector interface module arranged for simulating an inspector interface in the at least one display device, wherein the inspector interface includes features for receiving and presenting the defect results that were generated from the inspection tool; and a synchronization mechanism that is configured to translate commands that are input into the simulated inspector interface into commands that are input into the analyzer module. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the defect results include a plurality of defect identifiers, and a plurality of defect locations, a plurality of defect patch images from the corresponding inspection tool, and defect difference intensity values. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the analyzer tool is in the form of a scanning electron metrology (SEM) review tool. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the features of the simulated inspector interface are configured to be used to facilitate defect analysis procedures performed at the analyzer tool. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the features in the inspector interface are configurable to provide useful defect information that is viewable and interactive as one reviews high resolution images produced by the analyzer tool. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the sample is a wafer and the features in the inspector interface include a defect wafer map showing the positions of the defects found on the wafer by the corresponding inspection tool and a defect list for the defects, their identities, and their position values. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein the features in the inspector interface include a number of image patches that correspond to a currently defect selected from the defect wafer map or the defect list. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the image patches include a defect patch showing the selected defect and its surrounding area, a corresponding reference patch without the defect, and the selected defect by itself. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein the synchronization module is arranged to cause the analyzer module to control the analysis tool so that it moves to the selected defect and to cause the inspector interface module to display the defect selection in the simulated inspector interface. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the features of the inspector interface are in the form of selection mechanisms for automatically affecting which images are generated and/or grabbed by the analysis tool. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the synchronization module comprises an analyzer script module configured for communicating with the analyzer module and an inspector script configured for communicating with the inspector interface module, where the analyzer and inspector scripts are further configured to communicate with each other. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein the features of the inspector interface include a visual optimizer that allows one to repeatedly adjust at least one inspection threshold visually and immediately see the changes to the defect results in the defect wafer map and defect list of the simulated inspector interface so as to optimize the defect results captured by the corresponding inspection tool using such adjusted threshold. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the features of the inspector interface include features for facilitating defect classification. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein the features of the inspector interface include a sync mechanism for moving the analyzing tool to a particular defect that has been selected in the inspector interface. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein the features include an automatic synchronization mechanism configured to automatically move the analyzing tool to a particular defect that has been selected in the inspector interface. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the analyzer module is further arranged to display an analyzer interface in the at least one display device, wherein the analyzer interface is configured for allowing a user to control the analysis tool, and wherein the synchronization module is configured to translate user interactions with the inspection interface into user interaction with the analysis interface. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein the features of the inspector interface include a size option that allows a user to select an area of the high resolution image. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 16, wherein the sample is a wafer and the features of the inspector interface include a process window qualification option that allows a user to select a row or column of dies on the wafer, wherein the synchronization module is arranged to sequentially display high resolution images of each selected die in the display device. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein the features of the inspector interface include a classification input feature that allows a user to classify a defect selected in the inspector interface, wherein the synchronization module is arranged to cause the classification to be stored in the defect results and update defect information that is displayed in the inspector interface. 