A method for solving a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) includes choosing a first state corresponding to a first set of values of a set of variables, and selecting a hop distance within a state space of the variables responsively to a random distance selection criterion. A second state corresponding to a second set of the values of the variables is selected, such that the second state is separated from the first state by the hop distance. Constraint costs of the first and second states are compared. If the cost of the second state is lower than the cost of the first state, the first state is redefined to correspond to the second set of the values of the variables. These steps are repeated until a solution of the CSP is found.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for solving a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) defined by a group of variables and constraints applicable to the variables, the method comprising the steps of: (a) choosing a first state corresponding to a first set of values of the variables; (b) selecting a hop distance within a state space of the variables responsively to a random distance selection criterion; (c) choosing a second state corresponding to a second set of the values of the variables, such that the second state is separated from the first state by the hop distance; (d) comparing a first cost, determined by applying the constraints to the first set of the values of the variables, to a second cost, determined by applying the constraints to the second set of the values of the variables; (e) if the second cost is closer than the first cost to meeting a condition indicative that the constraints are satisfied, redefining the first state to correspond to the second set of the values of the variables; (f) repeating steps (b) through (e) until the second cost meets the condition, whereby the second set of the values of the variables represents a solution of the CSP, wherein the variables are characteristic of features of an image containing visual information; and (g) identifying an object in the image based on the features, responsively to the second set of the values of the variables. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the variables are characteristic of a natural language input, and comprising (g) parsing the natural language, responsively to the second set of the values of the variables, so as to interpret the language. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the variables are characteristic of a condition, and comprising (g) determining a diagnosis of the condition responsively to the second set of the values of the variables. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the variables are characteristic of resources whose use is to be scheduled, and comprising (g) scheduling the use of the resources responsively to the second set of the values of the variables. 5. Apparatus for solving a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) defined by a group of variables and constraints applicable to the variables, the apparatus comprising a CSP processor, which is arranged to solve the CSP by the steps of: (a) choosing a first state corresponding to a first set of values of the variables; (b) selecting a hop distance within a state space of the variables responsively to a random distance selection criterion; (c) choosing a second state corresponding to a second set of the values of the variables, such that the second state is separated from the first state by the hop distance; (d) comparing a first cost, determined by applying the constraints to the first set of the values of the variables, to a second cost, determined by applying the constraints to the second set of the values of the variables; (e) if the second cost is closer than the first cost to meeting a condition indicative that the constraints are satisfied, redefining the first state to correspond to the second set of the values of the variables; and (f) repeating steps (b) through (e) until the second cost meets the condition, whereby the second set of the values of the variables represents a solution of the CSP, wherein the variables are characteristic of features of an image containing visual information, and wherein the processor is arranged to identify, responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables, an object in the image based on the features. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the variables are characteristic of a natural language input, and wherein the processor is arranged to parse the natural language, responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables, so as to interpret the language. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the variables are characteristic of a condition, and wherein the processor is arranged to determine, responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables, a diagnosis of the condition. 8. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the variables are characteristic of resources whose use is to be scheduled, and wherein the processor is arranged to schedule the use of the resources responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables. 9. A computer software product for solving a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) defined by a group of variables and constraints applicable to the variables, the product comprising a computer-readable medium, in which program instructions are stored, which instructions, when read by a computer, cause the computer to solve the CSP by the steps of: (a) choosing a first state corresponding to a first set of values of the variables; (b) selecting a hop distance within a state space of the variables responsively to a random distance selection criterion; (c) choosing a second state corresponding to a second set of the values of the variables, such that the second state is separated from the first state by the hop distance; (d) comparing a first cost, determined by applying the constraints to the first set of the values of the variables, to a second cost, determined by applying the constraints to the second set of the values of the variables; (e) if the second cost is closer than the first cost to meeting a condition indicative that the constraints are satisfied, redefining the first state to correspond to the second set of the values of the variables; and (f) repeating steps (b) through (e) until the second cost meets the condition, whereby the second set of the values of the variables represents a solution of the CSP, wherein the variables are characteristic of features of an image containing visual information, and wherein the instructions cause the computer to identify, responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables, an object in the image based on the features. 10. The product according to claim 9, wherein the variables are characteristic of a natural language input, and wherein the instructions cause the computer to parse the natural language, responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables, so as to interpret the language. 11. The product according to claim 9, wherein the variables are characteristic of a condition, and wherein the instructions cause the computer to determine, responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables, a diagnosis of the condition. 12. The product according to claim 9, wherein the variables are characteristic of resources whose use is to be scheduled, and wherein the instructions cause the computer to schedule the use of the resources responsively to the second set of the values of the of the variables. 