A precision soft-touch gripping mechanism has a mounting plate attached to a robot arm. The plate supports a stepper motor. The output shaft of the stepper motor is connected through a spring to an elongated finger that slides in a central longitudinal slot of the plate and supports a first wafer gripping post, while on the end opposite to the first wafer gripping post the mounting plate pivotally supports two L-shaped fingers with a second and third wafer gripping posts on their respective ends. The mounting plate in combination with the first sliding finger and two pivotal fingers forms the end effector of the robot arm which is thin enough for insertion into a wafer-holding slot of a wafer cassette. The end effector is equipped with a mapping sensor for detecting the presence or absence of the preceding wafer, wafer position sensors for determining positions of the wafer with respect to the end effector, and force sensors for controlling the wafer gripping force. Several embodiments relate to different arrangements of gripping rollers and mechanisms for control of the gripping force and speed of gripping required for gripping the wafer with a soft and reliable touch.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A precision soft-touch gripping mechanism for flat objects, said precision soft-touch gripping mechanism having a longitudinal axis and an actuating member, each of said flat objects having a plane and a peripheral edge, said precision soft-touch gripping mechanism comprising: a mounting plate; a linear precision drive mechanism supported by said mounting plate; at least three gripping posts with at least two of them moveable simultaneously radially inwardly/outwardly with respect to said peripheral edge when each of said flat objects is placed into said precision soft-touch gripping mechanism, said at least three gripping posts having a plane; a gripping force control means for controlling the gripping force with which said gripping posts grip said peripheral edge by controlling operation of said linear precision drive mechanism; said at least three gripping posts comprising: a first gripping post which is located on said longitudinal axis and has at least one gripping element for engaging said peripheral edge, said longitudinal axis passing through said precision drive mechanism; a second gripping post and a third gripping post which are located on opposite sides of said longitudinal axis; a first linking member that supports said first gripping post and is stationary, said precision soft-touch gripping mechanism further comprising a first pivot rigidly connected to said mounting plate on one side relative to said longitudinal axis, and a second pivot rigidly connected to said plate on the side relative to said longitudinal axis opposite to said one side; a second linking member that is pivotally supported by said first pivot; and a third linking member that is pivotally supported by said second pivot, said gripping force control means having a sliding member connected to said linear precision drive mechanism and moveable in the direction of said longitudinal axis, said sliding member having a first pin rigidly connected thereto, said second linking member and said third linking member have respective slots in the direction transverse to said longitudinal axis, said respective slots being at least partially overlapped, said first pin being slidingly guided in said respective slots. 2. The precision soft-touch gripping mechanism of claim 1, wherein said gripping force control means further comprises a main spring located between said actuating member and said sliding member, and means for controlling compression of said main spring in terms of said gripping force. 3. The precision soft-touch gripping mechanism of claim 2, wherein said main spring is a coil spring, said means for controlling compression of said main spring is a pressure sensor connected to said stepper motor for stopping operation of said stepper motor when said coil spring is compressed with a predetermined force. 4. The precision soft-touch gripping mechanism of claim 2, wherein said springing is a coil spring, said means for controlling compression of said spring is a limit switch connected to said linear precision drive mechanism for stopping operation of said linear precision drive mechanism when said coil spring is compressed with a predetermined force. 5. The precision soft-touch gripping mechanism of claim 1, further comprising sensor means for determining position of said plane of said at least three gripping posts end effector substantially with respect to said plane of said flat object and sensor means for determining that said plane of said at least three gripping posts deviates from said plane of said flat object. 6. The precision soft-touch gripping mechanism of claim 5, wherein said sensor means for determining position of said at least three gripping posts substantially with respect to said plane of said flat object comprises at least one mapping sensor for determining that the position of destination of said flat object is free for unloading said flat object and at least one through-beam sensor for determining position of said edge of said flat object. 7. The precision soft-touch gripping mechanism of claim 5, wherein said flat object is circular and has a center, said sensor means for determining that said plane of said at least three gripping posts deviates from said plane of said flat object comprises a pair of sensors, each of said sensors comprising a light transmitter that emits a light beam and a light receiver that receives said light beam, said light emitter and light receiver being located on opposite sides relative to said longitudinal axis, the light beams of each of said sensors intersecting in the center of said circular flat object. 