A membrane comprising two or more macromolecules that interact via multiple reversible physical interaction points (MRIPM). The membrane further comprises a chemical species A, which interacts selectively or nonselectively with the MRIPM; and a chemical species B, which interacts selectively with the MRIPM whereby the passage of species A across the MRIPM is moderated by species B.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting by electrogenerated chemiluminescence a chemical species in a solution containing the chemical species and an electroluminescent species, the method comprising: contacting the solution with an electrode comprising an electrically conductive surface having a polyelectrolyte complex film deposited thereon, the polyelectrolyte complex film comprising a positively-charged polyelectrolyte and a negatively-charged polyelectrolyte, wherein (i) the electroluminescent species and the electrically conductive surface of the electrode are initially separated by the polyelectrolyte complex film; (ii) the chemical species interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film; and (iii) the selective interaction of the chemical species with the polyelectrolyte complex film causes the polyelectrolyte complex film to become permeable to the electroluminescent species, whereby the electroluminescent species permeates the polyelectrolyte complex film, allowing the electroluminescent species to contact the electrically conductive surface; and applying a voltage to the electrically conductive surface to cause the electroluminescent species to become oxidized or reduced when the electroluminescent species is in contact with the electrically conductive surface, thereby causing the electroluminescent species to electrogenerate chemiluminescence. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the electroluminescent species is ruthenium bipyridine. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the positively-charged polyelectrolyte polymer and the negatively-charged polyelectrolyte polymer comprises a tertiary amine chemically bound thereto. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film was deposited on the electrically conductive surface of the electrode by: (i) exposing the electrically conductive surface to a solution comprising either the positively-charged polyelectrolyte polymer or the negatively-charged polyelectrolyte polymer thereby causing the polyelectrolyte polymer to adsorb thereon; (ii) exposing the electrically conductive surface having the polyelectrolyte polymer of step (i) adsorbed thereon to a solution comprising a polyelectrolyte polymer having an overall charge opposite that of the polyelectrolyte polymer of step (i) thereby causing the polyelectrolyte polymer having the overall charge opposite that of the polyelectrolyte polymer of step (i) to adsorb thereon; and (iii) repeating steps (i) and (ii). 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of detecting the electrogenerated chemiluminescence by an optical detector. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the selective interaction of the chemical species with the polyelectrolyte complex film is measured by a distribution coefficient, K, wherein K is a ratio of a concentration of the chemical species in the polyelectrolyte complex film to a concentration of the chemical species in solution and the value of K at equilibrium is greater than 2. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the value of K at equilibrium is greater than 10. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the value of K at equilibrium is greater than 100. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises multiple contact points for a polyvalent species comprising ion pairing groups and the chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is the polyvalent species. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the polyvalent species has a net charge greater than 2+ or a net charge less than 2-. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the polyvalent species is hexacyanocobaltate ion. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises a polynucleotide and the chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary polynucleotide sequence. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises a polypeptide and the chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary polypeptide. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises an antibody and the chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary antigen. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises an antigen and the chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary antibody. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises an enzyme selected from the group consisting of metalloenzymes, metallothioneins, and calmodulin and the chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a metal ion for which the enzyme is selective. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the negatively-charged polyelectrolyte comprises charged repeat units selected from the group consisting of styrenesulfonic acid, 2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propane sulfonic acid, sulfonated lignin, ethylenesulfonic acid, methacryloxyethylsulfonic acid, sulfonated ether ether ketone; and the positively-charged polyelectrolyte comprises charged repeat units selected from the group consisting of diallyldimethylammonium, vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium, ionenes, acryloxyethyltrimethyl ammonium chloride, methacryloxy(2-hydroxy)propyltrimethyl ammonium, N-methylvinylpyridinium, other N-alkylvinyl pyridiniums, N-aryl vinyl pyridinium, alkyl- or aryl imidazolium, crylic acids, methacrylic acid, carboxylic acids, pyridines, imidazoles, piperidines, and primary, secondary, or tertiary amines. 18. The method of claim 1 further comprising preparing an array of two or more electrodes comprising electrically conductive surfaces having polyelectrolyte complex films deposited thereon. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex films prepared on the two or more electrically conductive substrates have different chemical compositions. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of detecting the electrogenerated chemiluminescence by an optical array detector. 