A safety system for online servicing of a media library is provided, wherein the library comprises a plurality of media storage cells and at least one media picker robot that moves along the media storage cells, and wherein the library is contained within an enclosure having at least one access means. The safety system detects whether the access means in the enclosure is open or closed and operates the robot in the media library in one of two corresponding modes. If the access means is closed, the robot operates in a normal mode at a first specified speed. If the access means is open, the robot operates in a safe mode at a second specified speed that is slower than the first speed of the normal mode. In another embodiment, while in safe mode, the picker robot is excluded from moving within a restricted zone in the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A safety system for a media library comprising a plurality of media storage cells and at least one media picker robot that moves along the media storage cells, wherein the library is contained within an enclosure having at least one access means, the safety system comprising; an access sensor that detects if the access means in the enclosure is open; and a control component that operates the robot in the media library in one of the following modes: if the access means is closed, a normal mode, wherein the picker robot automatically moves at a first specified speed; and if the access means is open, a safe mode, wherein the picker robot automatically moves at a second specified speed that is a non-zero speed and is slower than the first speed of the normal mode. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein: the access sensor also detects if the access means is locked; and the control component operates the robot in safe mode only if the access means is unlocked. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the slower robot speed of the safe mode is implemented by means of control software that reduces power to robot. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the slower robot speed of the safe mode is implemented by means of an electrical circuit that limits power to the robot. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the media library further comprises a plurality of picker robots that are responsive to the control component. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein tho media Library further comprises a plurality of access means associated with the access sensor. 