A device for transferring and characterizing objects positions the object on a horizontal work field. The device includes at least one rail extending parallel to the X direction and a displacement unit, movable back and forth in the X direction, having a motorized gripping mechanism for grasping an object. A processor for controlling movements of the displacement unit and actions of the gripping mechanism is distinguished in that the displacement unit includes a carrying device, movable together therewith along the rail, for transferring objects in the X direction. The carrying device is a plate for carrying objects moved onto this carrying plate using the gripping mechanism. According to a method of the invention, objects are moved onto the plate of the carrying device, transferred in the X direction, and deposited again at a second position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A liquid handling work platform comprising: a) an essentially horizontal work field with a lengthwise dimension in the X direction and a transverse dimension, running in the Y direction, essentially perpendicularly thereto; b) at least one device for transferring objects, this device including at least one rail extending parallel to the X direction and a displacement unit, which is movable back and forth in the X direction on this rail using drives, and a motorized gripping mechanism for grasping an object; c) a barcode reader positioned on the displacement unit and implemented to read identification marks or flags of specimen carriers essentially vertically from the rear of the work field in a first passage and to identify the actual content of objects on these specimen carriers or in a specimen container in a second passage, in that the barcode reader is rotatable/tiltable around one or more axes; and d) a processor for controlling the movements of the displacement unit, the actions of the gripping mechanism and the identity of the samples and/or the objects as well as their X/Y positions, wherein the displacement unit includes a carrying device, movable together therewith along the rail, for transferring objects or specimen carriers in the X direction, this carrying device being implemented as a plate for carrying objects moved onto this carrying plate using the gripping mechanism. 2. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, wherein the carrying device, together with its carrying plate and its gripping mechanism, is rotatable around an angle .beta. in relation to a Z axis that is perpendicular to the horizontal work field. 3. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, wherein the rail is positioned outside the work field and has a length which corresponds to at least the lengthwise dimension in the X direction of the work field. 4. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, wherein the gripping mechanism is extendable in the Y direction over at least the dimension of an object positioned on the work field. 5. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, wherein the device for transferring objects includes a tool for characterizing objects, the motorized gripping mechanism being implemented for grasping and moving an object toward this characterization tool and the processor for controlling the movements of the displacement unit and the actions of the gripping mechanism also being implemented for processing the information provided by this characterization tool. 6. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, wherein the characterization tool includes at least one of an IR thermometer, a spectroscope, a tube inspection unit, and a camera. 7. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, having two essentially horizontal work fields, wherein the displacement unit is movable back and forth using drives together with the transfer plate and the motorized gripping mechanism on at least one rail, which is positioned behind these work fields and extends parallel to the X direction. 8. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 7, wherein these work fields are aligned identically next to one another or aligned mirror-symmetric one behind another. 9. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 7, wherein these work fields are all positioned parallel to one another and in one plane. 10. A method for transferring objects in a liquid handling work platform that comprises: a) providing an essentially horizontal work field with a lengthwise dimension in the X direction and a transverse dimension, running in the Y direction, essentially perpendicularly thereto; b) providing at least one device for transferring objects, this device including at least one rail extending parallel to the X direction and a displacement unit, which is movable back and forth in the X direction on this rail using drives, and a motorized gripping mechanism for grasping an object; c) providing a barcode reader positioned on the displacement unit, which is rotatable/tiltable around one or more axes and implemented to identify the actual content of objects on specimen carriers or in a specimen container; and d) providing a processor for controlling the movements of the displacement unit, the actions of the gripping mechanism and the identity of the samples and/or the objects as well as their X/Y positions, the method further comprising the following steps: 1) positioning of objects on at least one essentially horizontal work field in a first X/Y position; 2) reading identification marks or flags of specimen carriers or objects essentially vertically from the rear of the work field in a first passage using the barcode reader; 3) identifying the actual content of objects on these specimen carriers or in a specimen container in a second passage using the barcode reader and grasping the identified objects at the first X/Y position using the gripping mechanism; 4) moving the identified and grasped objects onto a plate of the carrying device; 5) transferring the identified and grasped objects in the X direction on this carrying plate; and 6) depositing the identified, grasped, and transferred objects again at a second X/Y position on an essentially horizontal work field. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein grasping of an object and identifying is carried out at a first X/Y position in a first work field and depositing of this object is carried out at a second X/Y position in the same work field or a second work field that is positioned parallel to the first work field. 12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the carrying device, between the grasping and depositing of an object, is rotated around an angle .beta. in relation to a Z axis that is essentially perpendicular to the work field. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the angle .beta., around which the carrying device is rotatable, is +180.degree. and/or -180.degree.. 14. The method according to claim 10, wherein the objects are moved toward a tool for characterizing an object and are characterized by this characterization tool, the information provided by the characterization tool being processed by a processor of the device. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein by using the characterization tool, the chemical composition and the physical properties of samples is or are determined. 16. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 1, wherein the barcode reader is implemented for reading a 1-D, or 2-D, or 3-D code. 17. The liquid handling work platform according to claim 2, wherein the angle .beta., around which the carrying device is rotatable, is +180.degree. and/or -180.degree.. 