The invention relates to methods of determining islet cell activity by detecting the level of Archipelin or a fragment thereof and comparing the level to a baseline level or range associated with a known islet cell activity. Such methods are useful in diagnosing and studying the development of diabetes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining islet cell-specific activity in an individual, the method comprising, detecting the level of a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:9 in a sample wherein the said sample comprises human blood from the individual, and determining islet cell-specific activity in the individual by comparing the level of the polypeptide in the sample to a baseline value or range associated with a known islet cell activity wherein said islet cell activity is associated with the ability of the islet cell to produce said polypeptide. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:9, SEQ ID NO:10, SEQ ID NO:11, SEQ ID NO:12, SEQ ID NO:13, and SEQ ID NO:14. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:2. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide is detected by an antibody. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the baseline or range is representative of the level of the polypeptide in a non-diabetic individual. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the level of the polypeptide in the individual is altered compared to a level of the polypeptide in a non-diabetic individual. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the level of the polypeptide in the individual is lower than a level of the polypeptide in a non-diabetic individual. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the altered level of the polypeptide in the individual is higher than a level of the polypeptide in a non-diabetic individual. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the level of the polypeptide in the individual is less than 50% of the level from the non-diabetic individual. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the level of the polypeptide in the individual is at least 150% of the level from the non-diabetic individual. 