A medical manipulator comprises a working unit (10) that performs operations, an operating unit (20) that generates instructions, a drive unit (50) that drives the working unit on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit, a power transmission mechanism (60) for transmitting driving force of the drive unit to the working unit, and a control unit (40) for controlling the power transmission mechanism on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit. The power transmission mechanism includes a first power transmission unit (61) interlocked with the drive unit, and a second power transmission unit (63) interlocked with the working unit and capable of being detachably connected to the first power transmission unit. A back drive torque of the first power transmission unit is larger than a back drive torque of the second power transmission unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical manipulator comprising: a working unit that performs operations; a drive unit that drives the working unit on the basis of instructions given thereto by an operating unit; and a power transmission mechanism for transmitting driving force of the drive unit to the working unit; wherein the power transmission mechanism includes a first power transmission unit interlocked with the drive unit, and a second power transmission unit interlocked with the working unit and capable of being detachably connected to the first power transmission unit, and a back drive torque of the first power transmission unit is larger than a drive torque of the second power transmission unit. 2. The medical manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the back drive torque of the first power transmission unit has a strength more than 0.05Nm when the first and the second power transmission unit are connected together. 3. The medical manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the operating unit that generates instructions, wherein the working unit and the second power transmission unit are integrated in an assembly, the operating unit and the first power transmission unit are integrated in an assembly, and the assembly of the working unit and the second power transmission unit, and the assembly of the operating unit and the first power transmission unit can detachably connected together. 4. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1 when the medical manipulator is stopped in an emergency in a state where the working unit is inserted in a cavity of a surgical subject, said method comprising the steps of: removing at least the drive unit and the first power transmission unit; and extracting the working unit and the second power transmission unit from the cavity of the surgical subject. 5. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1 when the medical manipulator is stopped in an emergency in a state where the working unit is inserted in a cavity of a surgical subject, said method comprising the steps of: removing at least the drive unit and the first power transmission unit; setting the working unit in a safe position by manually operating the second power transmission unit; and extracting the working unit and the second power transmission unit from the cavity of the surgical subject. 6. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1 when the medical manipulator is stopped in an emergency in a state where the working unit is inserted in a cavity of a surgical subject, said method comprising the steps of: removing at least the drive unit and the first power transmission unit; and setting the working unit in a safe position by manually operating the working unit using a forceps; and extracting the working unit and the second power transmission unit from a cavity of a surgical subject. 