Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antisense compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding acyl CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-2, wherein said compound is fully complementary to at least an 8-nucleobase portion of nucleotides 161 to 190 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 2. The antisense compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified intemucleoside linkage. 4. The antisense compound of claim 3 wherein the modified intemucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The antisense compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'--O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The antisense compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the antisense compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 wherein the antisense compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 12. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the 8-nucleobase portion comprises at least 8 linked nucleobases. 13. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 14. The antisense compound of claim 1, wherein the antisense compound is fully complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 15. The antisense compound of claim 2, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 21. 16. The antisense compound of claim 2, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide consists of the nucleobase sequence of SEQ ID NO: 21. 17. The antisense compound of claim 16, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises a gap segment of ten 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between wing segments of five 2'--O-methoxyethyl nucleotides, wherein all internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate and wherein all cytosine residues are 5-methylcytosine residues. 18. The chimeric oligonucleotide of claim 9, wherein said oligonucleotide comprises a gap segment of linked 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between wing segments of linked 2'--O-methoxyethyl nucleotides. 