Apparatus and methods are disclosed for applying electromagnetic force (EMF) to flanging and hemming metal panels to form a hemmed panel assembly. First and second apparatus and method steps use a translating EMF coil to flange a sheet and to finish a hem by progressive non-planar bending. An alternate embodiment uses EMF hemming for difficult-to-hem portions of a flange and optionally precedes this with conventional hemming of straight hem portions.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of applying electromagnetic force (EMF) for hemming together edges of at least two metal panels to form an edge hemmed panel assembly, the method comprising: holding at least first and second metal panels with faces aligned in mated face engagement, the first panel having a flange bent at an angle generally perpendicular to the mated face of the first panel across and beyond an edge face of the second panel; positioning an EMF hemming coil closely opposite an outer face of the bent flange; and energizing the coil to generate eddy currents in the flange that form opposing magnetic fields between the coil and the flange and apply a force that bends the flange against and generally parallel to the mated face of the second panel to form a finished hem of the first panel around the edge face of the second panel. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the flange has at least one straight portion and at least one difficult to flange shaped portion, the method including using conventional mechanical hemming for hemming the straight portions and hemming the shaped portions by EMF hemming. 3. A method as in claim 2 including hemming each shaped portion by traversing the EMF coil in a single pass along each shaped portion of the flange. 4. A method of applying electromagnetic force (EMF) for hemming together edges of at least two metal panels to form an edge hemmed panel assembly, the method comprising: holding at least first and second metal panels with faces aligned in mated face engagement, the first panel having a flange bent at an angle generally perpendicular to the mated face of the first panel across and beyond an edge face of the second panel; positioning an EMF hemming coil closely opposite an outer face of the bent flange; and energizing the coil to generate eddy currents in the flange that form opposing magnetic fields between the coil and the flange and apply a force that bends the flange against and generally parallel to the mated face of the second panel to form a finished hem of the first panel around the edge face of the second panel initially positioning the EMF coil at one end of the flange and traversing the coil to an opposite end of the flange during forming of the hem so that the flange is subjected to non-plane strain bending by which formability of the flange is increased. 5. A method as in claim 4 including holding the first panel in a flanging fixture, prior to the first holding step, and bending the flange to said angle with an EMF flanging coil by energizing and traversing the coil along the length of the flange to form the flange by non-plane strain bending. 6. A method as in claim 5 including forming the flange with a single pass of the flanging coil along the flange. 7. A method as in claim 4 including forming the hem in a single pass of the hemming coil. 