Described herein is a system for executing distributed transactions. A participant and a coordinator cooperate to execute a distributed transaction, the distributed transaction including a transaction executed by the participant. To manage the transaction, the coordinator and the participant communicate over a network using, for example, a stateless protocol. The distributed transaction may be terminated when communication between the participant and coordinator regarding the transaction does not occur within a time period. The time period may reflect the time required for a coordinator to send a message and a participant to acknowledge receipt of the message, and the time for the participant to perform operations executed for the transaction. The latency of network traffic between the participant and the coordinator is monitored, and the time periods adjusted accordingly. In addition, the amount of time required for the participant to execute operations for the transaction is monitored, and the time periods adjusted accordingly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of managing a distributed transaction, the method comprising the steps of: generating latency information by monitoring latency of a network; wherein generating said latency information includes generating a set of one or more transit times, wherein each of said set of one or more transit times reflects a period of time between when a message is transmitted over the network from a sender to a receiver and when the message is received; generating one or more time period values based on said latency information; determining whether to terminate distributed transactions based on said one or more time period values; determining whether said latency information indicates that changes in the latency of said network satisfy adjustment criteria; if said latency information indicates that changes in the latency of said network satisfy adjustment criteria, then adjusting said one or more time period values; after a coordinator of said distributed transaction determines to initiate commitment of said distributed transaction, a coordinating initiating commitment of said distributed transaction; and after said coordinator initiates commitment of said distributed transaction, then determining whether to terminate said distributed transaction based on said one or more time period values. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a participant participating in said distributed transaction executes a transaction of said distributed transaction and terminates said transaction based on termination criteria that includes at least one criterion based on a particular value from said one or more time period values. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said distributed transaction is managed by said coordinator, said coordinator cooperating with said participant to execute the distributed transaction by communicating messages with the participant over the network. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of communicating with the participant over the network is performed using a stateless protocol. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the stateless protocol is HTTP or HTTPS. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein said one or more transit times are based on a period of time between when a message is transmitted between said coordinator and said participant and when an acknowledgement that the message has been received is received by the originator of the message. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: said one or more time period values includes a particular value; wherein each of said set of one or more transit times reflects a period of time between when a message is transmitted over the network from a sender to a receiver and when the sender receives an acknowledgement from the receiver that the receiver has received the message; and wherein said adjustment criteria includes a criterion that each of said set of one or more transit times lie outside a range associated with said particular value. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of generating a set of one or more transit times includes the step of generating at least two transit times. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of generating a set of one or more transit times is performed by pinging a server connected to a particular network. 10. The method of claim 2, further including the step of determining a transaction execution threshold period that reflects a period of time needed for said participant to execute operations for transactions, wherein said particular value is based on said transaction execution threshold period. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein: said transaction specifies a modification to an item of data; and said participant determines whether said transaction satisfies termination criteria before allowing another modification specified by another transaction for said item of data. 12. A method of managing a distributed transaction, the method comprising the steps of: determining a set of one or more transaction execution periods for transactions executed by a participant that participates in distributed transactions; wherein determining a set of one or more transaction execution periods is based on measuring, for each transaction of said transactions, a period of time that reflects a duration between when said participant is requested to execute one or more operations of said transaction and when said participant acknowledges executing said one or more operations; if a difference between each of said set of one or more transaction execution periods and a transaction execution threshold period satisfies adjustment criteria, then adjusting said transaction execution threshold period; wherein termination criteria is based on said transaction execution threshold period; and wherein said termination criteria is used for determining whether to terminate said distributed transaction after a coordinator of said distributed transaction initiates commitment of said distributed transaction. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said adjustment criteria include a criterion that said difference is so great that each of said set of one or more transaction execution periods lies outside a range based on said transaction execution threshold period. 14. The method of claim 12, further including the steps of monitoring a network for changes in latency of the network; and generating one or more time period values based on said changes in latency, wherein said termination criteria include a criterion based on said one or more time period values. 15. A method of managing a distributed transaction, the method comprising the steps of: monitoring latency of a network; wherein said step of monitoring includes generating a set of one or more transit times, wherein each of said set of one or more transit times reflects a period of time between when a message is transmitted over the network from a sender to a receiver and when the message is received by the receiver; based on the one or more transit times, generating one or more time period values used to determine whether to terminate distributed transactions after a coordinator of said distributed transaction initiates commitment of said distributed transaction; and if changes in latency satisfy adjustment criteria, then adjusting said one or more time period values used for determining whether to terminate said distributed transaction after a coordinator of said distributed transaction initiates commitment of said distributed transaction. 16. A computer-readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of instructions for managing a distributed transaction, wherein execution of the one or more sequences of instructions by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform the steps of: generating latency information by monitoring latency of a network; wherein generating said latency information includes generating a set of one or more transit times, wherein each of said set of one or more transit times reflects a period of time between when a message is transmitted over the network from a sender to a receiver and when the message is received; generating one or more time period values based on said latency information; determining whether to terminate distributed transactions based on said one or more time period values; determining whether said latency information indicates that changes in the latency of said network satisfy adjustment criteria; if said latency information indicates that changes in the latency of said network satisfy adjustment criteria, then adjusting said one or more time period values; after a coordinator of said distributed transaction determines to initiate commitment of said distributed transaction, a coordinating initiating commitment of said distributed transaction; and after said coordinator initiates commitment of said distributed transaction, then determining whether to terminate said distributed transaction based on said one or more time period values. 17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein a participant participating in said distributed transaction executes a transaction of said distributed transaction and terminates said transaction based on termination criteria that includes at least one criterion based on a particular value from said one or more time period values. 18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein said distributed transaction is managed by said coordinator, said coordinator cooperating with said participant to execute the distributed transaction by communicating messages with the participant over the network. 19. A computer-readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of instructions for managing a distributed transaction, wherein execution of the one or more sequences of instructions by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform the steps of: determining a set of one or more transaction execution periods for transactions executed by a participant that participates in distributed transactions; wherein determining a set of one or more transaction execution periods is based on measuring, for each transaction of said transactions, a period of time that reflects a duration between when said participant is requested to execute one or more operations of said transaction and when said participant acknowledges executing said one or more operations; if a difference between each of said set of one or more transaction execution periods and a transaction execution threshold period satisfies adjustment criteria, then adjusting said transaction execution threshold period; wherein termination criteria is based on said transaction execution threshold period; and wherein said termination criteria is used for determining whether to terminate said distributed transaction after a coordinator of said distributed transaction initiates commitment of said distributed transaction. 20. A computer-readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of instructions for managing a distributed transaction, wherein execution of the one or more sequences of instructions by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform the steps of: monitoring latency of a network; wherein said step of monitoring includes generating a set of one or more transit times, wherein each of said set of one or more transit times reflects a period of time between when a message is transmitted over the network from a sender to a receiver and when the message is received by the receiver; based on the one or more transit times, generating one or more time period values used to determine whether to terminate distributed transactions after a coordinator of said distributed transaction initiates commitment of said distributed transaction; and if changes in latency satisfy adjustment criteria, then adjusting said one or more time period values used for determining whether to terminate said distributed transaction after a coordinator of said distributed transaction initiates commitment of said distributed transaction. 21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the step of communicating with the participant over the network is performed using a stateless protocol. 22. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein the stateless protocol is HTTP or HTTPS. 23. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein said one or more transit times are based on a period of time between when a message is transmitted between said coordinator and said participant and when an acknowledgement that the message has been received is received by the originator of the message. 24. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein: said one or more time period values includes a particular value; wherein each of said set of one or more transit times reflects a period of time between when a message is transmitted over the network from a sender to a receiver and when the sender receives an acknowledgement from the receiver that the receiver has received the message; and wherein said adjustment criteria includes a criterion that each of said set of one or more transit times lie outside a range associated with said particular value. 25. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the step of generating a set of one or more transit times includes the step of generating at least two transit times. 26. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the step of generating a set of one or more transit times is performed by pinging a server connected to a particular network. 27. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, the steps further including the step of determining a transaction execution threshold period that reflects a period of time needed for said participant to execute operations for transactions, wherein said particular value is based on said transaction execution threshold period. 28. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein: said transaction specifies a modification to an item of data; and said participant determines whether said transaction satisfies termination criteria before allowing another modification specified by another transaction for said item of data. 29. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein said adjustment criteria include a criterion that said difference is so great that each of said set of one or more transaction execution periods lies outside a range based on said transaction execution threshold period. 30. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, the steps further including the steps of: monitoring a network for changes in latency of the network; and generating one or more time period values based on said changes in latency, wherein said termination criteria include a criterion based on said one or more time period values. 