A material handling and transport system and process for moving a substrate carrier between storage and processing destinations are provided. The system includes a vehicle that runs on a support structure, such as a pathway or a track assembly supported on the floor, which may be in a pressurized tunnel. A carrier nest on the vehicle receives and supports the carrier. A lifting mechanism on the vehicle vertically raises and lowers the carrier nest. A load port support surface is disposed vertically above the support structure. The carrier is raised through an opening in the load port support surface. A load port nest on the load port support surface receives and supports the carrier adjacent a selected destination. A carrier manipulation mechanism manipulates the carrier over the load port nest. The lifting mechanism then lowers the carrier onto the load port nest. The system is particularly suited for handling and transporting semiconductor wafer carriers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for transporting a carrier between storage and processing destinations and for handling the carrier at the destinations, comprising: transporting the carrier along a support structure on a vehicle; stopping the carrier adjacent a selected destination; lifting the carrier from below, with a lifting mechanism disposed below the carrier to contact a lower surface of the carrier beneath an interior product receiving space of the carrier, to a raised position at the selected destination; manipulating the carrier, while supported from beneath the interior product receiving space, over a load port nest with an access face of the carrier oriented for access by a processing tool or storage device; and lowering the carrier, while supported from beneath the interior product receiving space, onto the load port nest. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein: the carrier is transported on the vehicle with the carrier access face oriented at an angle to the direction of travel; and the manipulating step further comprises rotating the vehicle and the carrier about a remote center to bring the access face parallel to an access port at the selected destination. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein the angle is 45.degree.. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein: the carrier is transported on the vehicle with the carrier access face oriented parallel to the direction of travel; and the manipulating step further comprises moving the vehicle and the carrier to an access port at the selected destination while maintaining the orientation of the carrier access face parallel to the direction of travel on the support structure. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the carrier is transported along the support structure at an incline configured to prevent substrate material in the carrier from falling out of an opening in the carrier. 6. The process of claim 5, wherein the incline is 5.degree. from horizontal. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein in the transporting step, the carrier is transported through a tunnel. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the carrier is lifted through an opening in a top surface of the tunnel. 9. The process of claim 1, wherein in the transporting step, the support structure comprises a track. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein in the transporting step, the support structure comprises a floor. 