A method and apparatus for screening articles utilizing a plurality of operators, with each operator utilizing an interactive display to identify and electronically mark objects within an article to be further examined. An operator positioned at an interactive display views electronic images of an article to be screened after it has been conveyed past a sensor array which transmits sequences of images of the series either directly or through a computer to the interactive display. The operator selects objects within the article displayed on the screen for further examination using the interactive feature of the display thereby registering the objects selected within the computer. The computer then provides sequential information identifying actions to be taken and information and data to be recorded.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for inspecting a series of articles containing discrete objects and selecting for further examination certain objects comprising the steps of: conveying said series of articles into and through an inspection zone; irradiating each article of said series of articles with incident electromagnetic radiation while said article is in said inspection zone; measuring the electromagnetic radiation emanating from each article within said series of articles; processing said measured electronic radiation to create an electronic image of each article, said electronic image including images of any discrete objects within said article; selecting one of a plurality of inspectors to inspect the image of an article from said series on an interactive display assigned to that inspector; displaying the image of said article on the interactive display screen assigned to the selected inspector; repeating said selecting and displaying steps so that each of said plurality of inspectors has the image of a different article displayed on the interactive display dedicated to that inspector; visually inspecting the image of said article by the selected inspector on that inspector's interactive display for any objects that would require further examination; selecting any objects within said article by the selected inspector on that inspector's interactive display that require further examination; marking any selected objects within said image of said specific article; creating a marked-up image of said specific article if any objects were previously selected for further examination; storing said marked-up image of said specific article; and assigning a new image to said inspector. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising conveying each article with one or more objects selected for further examination to a further examination station; displaying said marked-up image of said article on a display screen located within said further examination station to assist an examiner in further examining said article; and examining said one or more selected objects within said article. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising indicating whether said article containing one or more objects for further examination included one or more objects from the group consisting of a firearm, a knife, a sharp object, a pointed objects, a spray can, a bomb, an explosive composition, and ammunition via an interactive display screen. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting a stored image of an article from said series of articles for review by a supervisor; displaying said selected stored image of an article from said series of articles on an a display; reviewing said stored image by said supervisor. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising monitoring the performance of an inspector by projecting one or more computerized images of threat objects into an image of an article from said series of articles for display on said inspector's interactive screen at random times and tracking the inspector's accuracy in selecting said one or more computerized images of threat objects. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said inspecting and selecting occurs at a location remote from the location where said irradiating occurs. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising associating an individual with each article in said series of articles; storing the associated image of each article in a searchable database along with a digital photograph of the individual associated with that article. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said storing step further includes storing additional information about the individual associated with each article. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said searchable database is analyzed to compile correlations, association, and histories of objects, and individuals associated with said objects, entering a particular secure premises. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said interactive display is a touch screen display and the selection of an object for further examination is made by touching the image of the object on said touch screen display. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the interactive display includes a viewing screen and a point-and-click device and the selection of objects for further examination is made by using the point-and-click device. 12. A computer-assisted screening system utilizing a plurality of inspectors for inspecting a series of articles containing discrete objects to select certain objects for further examination comprising: a conveyor that conveys each article within said series of articles through an inspection zone; an electromagnetic radiation source that irradiates each of said articles; a sensor that measures the electromagnetic radiation emanating from each article when said article is irradiated; a computer system that processes said measurement of said electromagnetic radiation emanating from each article to generate an electronic image of each article revealing any discrete objects within said article and selects which of said one or more inspectors to display each image to; an interactive video display for each of said plurality of inspectors on which said image is displayed and on which said inspector selects any discrete objects that require further examination; and means for transmitting said images to one or more additional video displays. 13. The system of claim 12 further comprising a further examination area; an interactive display in said examination area; an image of the article undergoing further examination displayed on said interactive display, said image including markings highlighting the one or more discrete objects in said article selected for further review. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising means for recording the type of each object selected for further examination. 15. The system of claim 12 wherein the interactive video displays for said plurality of inspectors is located in a location remote from the location in which the electromagnetic radiation source resides. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said selections are stored in a searchable database along with said electronic images of said articles in said series of articles containing discrete objects. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein said selections along with said electronic images of said articles are stored in a searchable database along with digital photographs of an individual associated with each said article. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said selections, electronic images, and digital photographs are stored in a searchable database in a computer along with other information associated with each article and each individual. 19. The system of claim 18 further comprising means for analyzing said searchable database to compile at least one of correlations, associations, and histories of articles, objects, and individuals related thereto, entering a particular secure premises. 20. The system of claim 12 wherein the interactive video display is a touch screen display. 21. The system of claim 12 wherein the interactive video display includes a means for displaying an image and a point-and-click device for interacting with said image. 22. The system of claim 12 further comprising a supervisor; a supervisory workstation including an interactive video display; means for selecting an image that has been inspected by an inspector; means for displaying said selected image for review by said supervisor; and means for recording said inspector's performance. 