An edge gripping device grips and ungrips a substrate, such as a semiconductor wafer. A blade extends in a distal direction from a base of the device. At least one distal contact member is provided at the tip of the blade. Two proximal lever arms are pivotally coupled for synchronized, oppositely directed rotation to the base. Each lever arm has at least one proximal contact member at an outer end. A biasing member is coupled to the two proximal lever arms and to an actuator to effect pivoting movement of the lever arms. The pivoting motion moves the ends of the arms generally radially toward and away from the center of the substrate to be gripped or ungripped, thereby minimizing sliding of the substrate. The biasing member is biased to retain the lever arms in a closed position in the event of a power failure. Ramps are provided next to each contact member. The contact members and ramps are profiled to minimize the zone of the substrate edge that is contacted. The lever arms are pivotally mounted with flexural pivot members having no sliding motion, to minimize particle generation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An edge gripping device for gripping and ungripping a substrate comprising: a base a blade extending in a distal direction from the base and having at least one distal contact member at a distal location; two proximal lever arms coupled for synchronized, oppositely directed rotation to the base, each lever arm having at least two proximal contact members at an outer end; and an actuator fixed to the base and operatively coupled to the two lever arms to effect pivoting movement of the proximal contact members. 2. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the two proximal contact members at the end of each lever arm are abutting. 3. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising a biasing member coupled to the two proximal lever arms to bias the lever arms into a closed position, and the actuator is coupled to the biasing member to effect pivoting movement of the two lever arms. 4. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein each lever arm is pivotally mounted to the base at an interior point between an inner end and an outer end. 5. The edge gripping device of claim 3, wherein the biasing member comprises a resilient element comprising a midportion and two ends, the two ends fixed to respective inner ends of the lever arms, the midportion fixed to the actuator for movement therewith. 6. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the two proximal lever arms are mounted to the base with flexural pivot members. 7. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising a ramp adjacent the distal contact member and a ramp adjacent the proximal contact member of each lever arm. 8. The edge gripping device of claim 7, wherein the distal and proximal contact members and the ramps are formed of a cleanroom compatible material. 9. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the blade has two distal contact members at the distal location. 10. The edge gripping device of claim 9, wherein the blade includes a pair of tines at the distal end and the two distal contact members are located on associated ones of the pair of tines. 11. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising a sensor disposed to detect a closed position and an open position. 12. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the actuator is operative to control forces of the proximal contact member on the substrate. 13. An edge gripping device for gripping and ungripping a substrate comprising: a base; a blade extending in a distal direction from the base and having at least one distal contact member at a distal location, wherein the blade is tapered in thickness in the distal direction; two proximal lever arms coupled for synchronized, oppositely directed rotation to the base, each lever arm having at least one proximal contact member at an outer end; and an actuator fixed to the base and operatively coupled to the two lever arms to effect pivoting movement of the proximal contact members. 14. The edge gripping device of claim 13, further comprising a biasing member coupled to the two proximal lever arms to bias the lever arms into a closed position, and the actuator is coupled to the biasing member to effect pivoting movement of the two lever arms. 15. The edge gripping device of claim 14, wherein the biasing member comprises a resilient element comprising a midportion and two ends, the two ends fixed to respective inner ends of the lever arms, the midportion fixed to the actuator for movement therewith. 16. The edge gripping device of claim 13, wherein each lever arm is pivotally mounted to the base at an interior point between an inner end and an outer end. 17. The edge gripping device of claim 13, wherein the two proximal lever arms are mounted to the base with flexural pivot members. 18. The edge gripping device of claim 13, further comprising a ramp adjacent the distal contact member and a ramp adjacent the proximal contact member of each lever arm. 19. The edge gripping device of claim 18, wherein the distal and proximal contact members and the ramps are formed of a cleanroom compatible material. 20. The edge gripping device of claim 13, wherein each of the proximal lever has two proximal contact members at the end. 21. The edge gripping device of claim 20, wherein the two proximal contact members at the end of each lever arm are abutting. 22. The edge gripping device of claim 13, wherein the blade two distal contact members at the distal location. 23. The edge gripping device of claim 22, wherein the blade includes a pair of tines at the distal end and the two distal contact members are located on associated ones of the pair of tines. 24. The edge gripping device of claim 13, further comprising a sensor disposed to detect a closed position and an open position. 25. The edge gripping device of claim 13, further comprising a sensor disposed to detect an over-traveled closed position. 26. The edge gripping device of claim 13, wherein the actuator is operative to control forces of the proximal contact member on the substrate. 27. An edge gripping device for gripping and ungripping a substrate comprising: a base; a blade extending in a distal direction from the base and having at least one distal contact member at a distal location, two proximal lever arms coupled for synchronized, oppositely directed rotation to the base, each lever arm having at least one proximal contact member at an outer end; an actuator fixed to the base and operatively coupled to the two lever arms to effect pivoting movement of the proximal contact members; and a sensor disposed to detect an over-traveled closed position. 28. The edge gripping device of claim 27, further comprising a biasing member coupled to the two proximal lever arms to bias the lever arms into a closed position, and the actuator is coupled to the biasing member to effect pivoting movement of the two lever arms. 29. The edge gripping device of claim 28, wherein the biasing member comprises a resilient element comprising a midportion and two ends, the two ends fixed to respective inner ends of the level arms, the midportion fixed to the actuator for movement therewith. 30. The edge gripping device of claim 27, wherein each lever arm is pivotally mounted to the base at an interior point between an inner end and an outer end. 31. The edge gripping device of claim 27, wherein the two proximal lever arms are mounted to the base with flexural pivot members. 32. The edge gripping device of claim 27, further comprising a ramp adjacent the distal contact member and a ramp adjacent the proximal contact member of each lever arm. 33. The edge gripping device of claim 32, wherein the distal end proximal contact members and the ramps are formed of a cleanroom compatible material. 34. The edge gripping device of claim 27, wherein each of the proximal lever arms has two proximal contact members at the end. 35. The edge gripping device of claim 34, wherein the two proximal contact members at the end of each lever arm are abutting. 36. The edge gripping device of claim 27, wherein the blade has two distal contact members at the distal location. 37. The edge gripping device of claim 36, wherein the blade includes a pair of tines at the distal end and the two distal contact members are located on associated ones of the pair of tines. 38. The edge gripping device of claim 27, further comprising a sensor disposed to detect a closed position and an open position. 39. The edge gripping device of claim 27, wherein the actuator is operative to control forces of the proximal contact member on the substrate. 