Methods for detecting and sequencing of target double-stranded nucleic acid molecules, nucleic acid probes and arrays of probes useful in these methods, and kits and systems that contain these probes are provided. The methods involve hybridizing the nucleic acids or nucleic acids which represent complementary or homologous sequences of the target to an array of nucleic acid probes. These probes include a single-stranded portion, an optional double-stranded portion and a variable sequence within the single-stranded portion. The molecular weights of the hybridized nucleic acids of the set can be determined by mass spectroscopy, and the sequence of the target determined from the molecular weights of the fragments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sequencing a target nucleic acid comprising the steps of: (a) providing a set of partially single-stranded nucleic acid fragments wherein each fragment contains a sequence that corresponds to a sequence of the target; (b) hybridizing the single-stranded portions of the fragments to single-stranded portions of a set of partially double-stranded nucleic acid probes to form a set of complexes, wherein each probe contains a variable sequence within the single-stranded region, and for each complex; (i) ligating a single strand of the fragment to an adjacent single strand of the probe; and (ii) extending the unhigated strand of the complex by strand displacement polymerization using the ligated strand as a template; and (c) determining the molecular weights of the extended strands; and (d) determining the sequence of the target from the molecular weights of the extended strands, wherein the extended strand contains mass-modifying functionalities. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymerization incorporates mass-modifying nucleotides into the extended strand. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a heterocyclic base. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a sugar moiety. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a phosphate group. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is a chemical moiety that does not interfere with hydrogen bonding for base-pair formation. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a purine at position C2, N3, N7 or C8, or a deazapurine at position N7 or N9. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass-modifying functionality is coupled to a pyrimidine at position C5 or C6. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the mass-modifying functionality is selected from the group consisting of deuterium, F, Cl, Br, I, SiR.sub.3, Si(CH.sub.3).sub.3, Si(CH.sub.3).sub.2(C.sub.2H.sub.5), Si(CH.sub.3)(C.sub.2H.sub.5).sub.2, Si(C.sub.2H.sub.5).sub.3, (CH.sub.2).sub.nCH.sub.3, (CH.sub.2).sub.nNR.sub.2, CH.sub.2CONR.sub.2, (CH.sub.2).sub.nOH, CH.sub.2F, CHF.sub.2, and CF.sub.3; n is an integer; and R is selected from the group consisting of H, deuterium and alkyls, alkoxys and aryls of 1-6 carbon atoms, polyoxymethytene, monoalkylated polyoxymethylene, polyethylene imine, polyamide, polyester, alkylated silyl, heterooligo/polyaminoacid and polyethylene glycol. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the mass-modifying functionality is --N.sub.3 or --XR; X is selected from the group consisting of --O--, --NH--, --NR--, --S--, --NHC(S)--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.nCOO--, --NHCO(CH.sub.2).sub.nCOO--, --OSO.sub.2O--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.n--, --NHC(S)NH--, --OCO(CH.sub.2).sub.nS--, --OCO(CH.sub.2)S--, --NC.sub.4O.sub.2H.sub.2S--, --OPO(O-alkyl)-, and --OP(O-alkyl)-; n is an integer from 1 to 20; and R is selected from the group consisting of H, deuterium and alkyls, alkoxys or aryls of 1-6 carbon atoms, polyxymethylene, monoalkylated polyoxymethylene, polyethylene imine, polyamide polyester, alkylated silyl, heterooligo/polyaminoacid, and polyethylene glycol. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the extended strand is mass-modified by thiolation. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein thiolation is performed by treating said extended strand with a Beaucage reagent. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the extended strand is mass-modified by alkylation. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein alkylation is performed by treating said extended strand with iodoacetamide. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of removing alkali cations from said mass-modified extended strand. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein alkali cations are removed by ion exchange. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the variable sequence is between about 3 to about 9 nucleotides in length. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein one set of nucleic acids is attached to a solid support. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of plates, beads, microbeads, whiskers, combs, hybridization chips, membranes, single crystals, ceramics and self-assembling monolayers. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the probes are conjugated with biotin or a biotin derivative and the solid support is conjugated with avidin, streptavidin or a derivative thereof. 21. The method of claim 18, further comprising a spacer between each probe and the solid support. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the spacer is selected from the group consisting of oligopeptides, oligonucleotides, oligopolyamides, oligoethyleneglycerol, oligoacrylamides, alkyl chains of between about 6 to about 20 carbon atoms, and combinations thereof. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein the attachment is a cleavable attachment. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the cleavable attachment is cleavable by heat, an enzyme, a chemical agent or electromagnetic radiation. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular weights of the extended strands are determined by mass spectrometry. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the mass spectrometry includes fast atom bombardment, plasma desorption, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization, electrospray, photochemical release, electrical release, droplet release, resonance ionization or a combination thereof. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the mass spectrometry format includes time of flight with reflection, time of flight without reflection, electrospray, Fourier transform, ion trap, resonance ionization, ion cyclotron resonance or a combination thereof. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular weights of two or more extended strands are determined simultaneously. 