An apparatus for two degree of freedom positioning a moveable structure relative to a support structure is provided. The apparatus includes a moveable structure, a support structure, a compliant support disposed between the moveable structure and the support structure. The compliant support biases the moveable structure away from the support structure. In addition, three shape memory alloy actuators are provided between the structures and symmetrically arranged about the compliant support. The shape memory alloy actuators are selectively activated to provide two degrees of freedom of movement for the moveable structure relative to the support structure.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for positioning a moveable structure relative to a support structure, comprising: a moveable structure; a support structure; a compliant support disposed between the moveable structure and the support structure, the compliant support including a socket on the moveable structure, a ball moveably attached to the support structure via an integral stem, and a spring disposed about the stem for urging the ball away from the support structure, the stem extending through an opening in the support structure, the compliant support biasing the moveable structure away from the support structure; and only three shape memory alloy actuators, the three shape memory alloy actuators symmetrically arranged about the compliant support wherein each shape memory alloy actuator is attached to the moveable structure and the support structure whereby selectively activating the three shape memory alloy actuators provides two degrees of freedom of movement for the moveable structure relative to the support structure. 2. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 1 wherein the three shape memory alloy actuators are provided by stringing a single strand of shape memory alloy wire between the moveable structure and the support structure such that each shape memory alloy actuator comprises a first segment disposed between a first connection point on the support structure and a connection point on the moveable structure and a second segment disposed between a second connection point ante support structure and the connection point on the moveable structure. 3. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 2 wherein each of the first segment and second segment on each of the three shape memory alloy actuators is seperably actuable by a control circuit. 4. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 1 wherein each shape memory allay actuator has a single shape memory alloy wire connected to the support structure and the moveable structure. 5. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 4 wherein each shape memory alloy actuator is connected to a control circuit for selectively powering the shape memory alloy actuators. 6. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 5 wherein the control circuit is a voltage controller. 7. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 5 wherein the control circuit is a silicon controlled rectifier. 8. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 1 wherein the moveable structure comprises a mirror. 9. An apparatus for positioning a mirror, comprising: a mirror mounted to a moveable structure; a support structure; a compliant support disposed between the mirror and the support structure, the compliant support including a socket on the moveable structure, a ball moveably attached to the support structure via an integral stem, and a spring disposed about the stem for urging the ball away from the support structure, the stem extending through an opening in the support structure the compliant support biasing the moveable structure away from the support structure; and only three linear shape memory alloy actuators, each shape memory alloy actuator connected to the mirror and the support structure and being disposed about the compliant support such that selective activation of individual linear shape memory alloy actuators produces two degrees of freedom for the movement of the mirror. 10. An apparatus for positioning a mirror according to claim 9 wherein the three linear shape memory alloy actuators are symmetrically positioned about the compliant support. 11. An apparatus for positioning a mirror according to claim 9 further comprising a power supply capable of selectively powering the three linear shape memory allow actuators. 12. An apparatus for positioning a mirror according to claim 9 wherein each of the linear shape memory alloy actuators is formed from a singe strand of shape memory alloy wire. 13. An apparatus for positioning a mirror according to claim 9 wherein the shape memory alloy actuators have at least one component selected from the group consisting of: titanium and nickel (TiNi): copper, aluminum and nickel (CuAlNi); and titanium, nickel and palladium (TiNiPd). 14. An apparatus for positioning a moveable structure relative to a support structure, comprising: a moveable structure; a support structure; a compliant support disposed between the moveable structure and the support structure, the compliant support including a socket on the moveable structure, a ball moveably attached to the support structure via an integral stem, and a spring disposed about the stem for urging the ball away from the support structure, the stem extending through an opening in the support structure, the compliant support biasing the moveable structure away from the support structure; only three shape memory alloy actuators, the three shape memory alloy actuators symmetrically arranged about the compliant support wherein each shape memory alloy actuator is attached to the moveable structure and the support structure whereby selectively activating the three shape memory alloy actuators provides two degrees of freedom of movement for the moveable structure relative to the support structure; and a control circuit connected to each shape memory allow actuator for selectively powering the shape memory alloy actuators. 15. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 14 wherein the moveable structure comprises a mirror. 16. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 15 wherein the three shape memory alloy actuators are provided by stringing a single strand of shape memory alloy wire between the moveable structure and the support structure such that each shape memory alloy actuator comprises a first segment disposed between a first connection point on the support structure and a connection point on the moveable structure and a second segment disposed between a second connection point on the support structure and the connection point on the moveable structure. 17. The apparatus for positioning a moveable structure according to claim 15 wherein each shape memory alloy actuator has a single shape memory alloy wire connected to the support structure and the moveable structure. 18. The apparatus for positioning a mirror according to claim 14 wherein the shape memory alloy actuators have at least one component selected from the group consisting of: titanium and nickel (TiNi); copper, aluminum and nickel (CuAlNi); and titanium, nickel and palladium (TiNiPd). 