A vehicle framing system for framing an automotive vehicle body from a plurality of separate body components wherein the body components each include a reference surface. The system includes an assembly station having spaced-apart frame members positioned so that, when a vehicle carrier supporting the vehicle body components is positioned at the assembly station, the frame members extend along opposite sides of the vehicle carrier. At least two docking stations are secured to each frame member at predetermined locations. A robot mounts its associated tool arm with a docking station. At least one set of reference block and framing clamp is secured to each tool arm and these framing clamps maintain the reference surfaces of the vehicle body components against the reference blocks to hold the vehicle components at a predetermined position relative to each other. After each robot positions each associated tool arm with the docking station, the robot disengages from the tool arm and then welds the body components together by a welding gun carried by the robots.
Claims I claim: 1. A vehicle framing system for framing a vehicle body from a plurality of separate body components, at least one of the vehicle body components having a reference surface, comprising: an assembly station having spaced-apart frame members; a vehicle carrier which supports the vehicle body components in a preassembled condition at said assembly station; at least two docking stations secured to each frame member at predetermined positions; a tool arm associated with each docking station; a robot associated with each tool arm for moving said tool arm between an assembly position in which each said tool arm abuts against its associated docking station at a predetermined position, and a vehicle loading position in which each tool arm is disengaged from its associated docking station; a tool arm clamp mounted to each docking station which clamps said tool arm to its associated docking station at said predetermined position when said tool arm is in said assembly position, said tool arm clamp forming the sole means for removably securing each said tool arm to its associated docking station; and a framing clamp having a reference block secured to each tool arm and movable between a clamped and an unclamped position, wherein said clamped position of each framing clamp maintains its reference block in contact with the at least one reference surface on the vehicle body component to thereby maintain said vehicle body components at a predetermined position relative to each other. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising means for selectively detachably connecting each robot with its associated tool arm. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a welding gun connected to at least one of said robots. 4. The invention as defined in claim 3 wherein the welding robots are sized to carry and dynamically move their associated tool arms without having to disconnect from their welding guns. 5. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein, with said tool arms at their respective assembly positions, at least a portion of at least one tool arm extends into an interior of the vehicle body components. 6. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein each docking station includes three spaced locator pins, each locator pin having a predefined locating surface, and wherein each tool arm includes three locator sockets, each tool arm locator socket having a locating surface complementary to and aligned with said docking station locating pins. 7. The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein said docking station locator pins are frusto-conical in shape. 8. The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein said docking station locator pins are positioned at the apices of a triangle. 9. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein said locator pins are in a plan preferably oriented at 45 degrees from the horizontal. 10. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein said tool arm clamp is aligned with the centroid of said triangle. 11. The invention as defined in claim 10 wherein said tool arm clamp remains clamped in case of power outage (type activate for release). 12. The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein frusto-conical locator pins have a preferred conicity angle of 90 degrees. 13. The invention as defined in claim 6 and comprising a media quick connector for pressurized air and electric communication in between the docking station and tool arm, said media being used to activate and control said inboard framing clamp and locating pin cylinder. 14. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein the tool arm main body has a tetrahedral shape with a triangular basis matching the pattern of the locating socket outer perimeter. 15. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a conveyor which moves said vehicle carrier to said framing station. 16. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said robot includes a coupler which selectively engages its associated tool arm. 