An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part. The apparatus includes a part support, a sprayer and a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support and a display device positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures a dimension of the section of the part being coated. In one embodiment, an initial amount of coating and a final amount of coating are applied to the section of the part based on the dimension measurements and desired dimension of the part. In another embodiment, the amount of coating applied to the part is based on the desired coating thickness. As a result, the apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. A coating apparatus comprising: means for supporting a part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying a coating to a section of the part, said coating means including a sprayer; and means positioned adjacent to the support means for measuring the section of the part, wherein the measuring means measures a dimension of a section of a part being coated while the coating means applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said dimension measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support means includes a part support. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, which includes at least one shield connected to the part support. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating means includes a plurality of sprayers. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to each of the sprayers. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the support means and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the support means. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the housings each include a transparent member connected to said housing. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each transparent member is removably connected to the housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, which includes an excess coating reducer connected positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes a display device in communication with the measuring means and which displays the dimension measurements of the section of the part. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes a display device which displays the dimensional measurements of the section of the part. 15. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure a dimension of a section of a part which is supported by the part support and coated by the sprayer as the sprayer applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said dimension measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, which includes a display device operable to display the dimension measurements of the section of the part. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to the sprayer. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the part measurer includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the part support and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the part support. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein each housing includes a transparent member connected to said housing. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 24. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support, said part measurer operable to measure a section of a part supported by the part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support, said sprayer operable to apply an amount of coating to said section of the part based on a plurality of measurements of the section taken by the part measurer and the desired dimension of the section of the part; and a display device in communication with the part measurer, said display device operable to display the measurements of the section of the part while the coating is applied to the part by the sprayer. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to the sprayer. 27. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the part measurer includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the part support and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the part support. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein each housing includes a transparent member connected to said housing. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 31. The apparatus of claim 24, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 32. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support adapted to support a part; a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support, said the laser generator operable to project a laser beam onto a section of the part supported by the part support, said laser receiver operable to receive the laser beam to take measurements of said section of the part; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support, said sprayer operable to apply an amount of atomized coating to the section of the part based on said measurements taken of the part while the sprayer is applying the coating to the part and said desired dimension of the section of the part; and a display device in communication with the laser receiver, said display device operable to display said measurements. 33. The coating apparatus of claim 32, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 34. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the laser generator and the laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, which includes a transparent member connected to each housing. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 37. The apparatus of claim 32, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to the sprayer. 38. The apparatus of claim 32, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 39. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer including a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support; an air exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support opposite from the sprayer; and a display device positioned to face an operator, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure a dimension of a section of a part being coated while the part is being coated, the display device is operable to display the measurements of the dimension to the operator, the sprayer is operable to apply an amount of atomized coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and a desired dimension of the section of the part and the exhaust duct is operable to exhaust excess coating that does not adhere to the part. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 41. The apparatus of claim 39, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to the sprayer. 42. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein each housing include a transparent member connected to said housing. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 45. The apparatus of claim 39, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 46. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a plurality of sprayers positioned adjacent to the part support; and a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support, wherein the part measurer is operable to take measurements of a dimension of a section of a part supported by the part support and being coated while at least one of the sprayers applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and a desired dimension of the section of the part. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to each of the sprayers. 48. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 49. The apparatus of claim 46, which includes a display device controlled by the processor and operable to display the measurements of the section of the part. 50. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the part measurer includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the part support and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the part support. 51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein each housing includes a transparent member connected to said housing. 53. The apparatus of claim 52, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 54. The apparatus of claim 46, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 55. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein each of the sprayers is operable to apply a different coating to the section of the part. 56. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein the coatings include a base coating, a middle coating and a top coating. 57. The apparatus of claim 55, wherein each of the sprayers includes a spray control which enables the sprayers to apply the coatings at different rates. 58. A coating apparatus comprising: means for supporting a part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying a coating to a section of the part, said means including a sprayer; and means positioned adjacent to the support means for measuring a section of the part, wherein the measuring means is operable to measure a parameter of the section of the part being coated while the coating means applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on the parameter measurement and desired parameter measurement of the section of the part. 59. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the support means includes a part support. 60. The apparatus of claim 59, which includes at least one shield connected to the part support. 61. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 62. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the coating means includes a plurality of sprayers. 63. The apparatus of claim 62, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to each of the sprayers. 64. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the measuring means includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the support means and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the support means. 65. The apparatus of claim 64, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 66. The apparatus of claim 65, wherein the housings each include a transparent member connected to said housing. 67. The apparatus of claim 66, wherein each transparent member is removably connected to the housing. 68. The apparatus of claim 66, which includes an excess coating reducer connected to the frame and positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 69. The apparatus of claim 58, which includes a display device in communication with the measuring means and operable to display the parameter measurements of the section of the part. 70. The apparatus of claim 58, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 71. The apparatus of claim 58, which includes a display device which displays the parameter measurements of the section of the part. 72. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the parameter is at least one of: a dimension of a section of the part; a thickness of a coating applied to the section of the part; and a thickness of a plurality of coatings applied to the section of the part. 73. A coating apparatus comprising: means for supporting a part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying a coating to a section of the part; and means positioned adjacent to the support means for measuring the section of the part, wherein the measuring means measures a dimension of a section of a part being coated while the coating means applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said dimension measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part, wherein the measuring means includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one of the support means and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the support means, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing, each housing includes a transparent member removably connected to said housing, and which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 74. The apparatus of claim 73, wherein the support means includes a part support. 75. The apparatus of claim 73, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 76. The apparatus of claim 73, wherein the coating means includes a sprayer. 77. The apparatus of claim 73, which includes a display device in communication with the measuring means and which displays the dimension measurements of the section of the part. 78. The apparatus of claim 73, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 79. The apparatus of claim 73, which includes a display device which displays the dimensional measurements of the section of the part. 80. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support adapted to support a part wherein the part support includes a conveyor; a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support, said the laser generator operable to project a laser beam onto a section of the part supported by the part support, said laser receiver operable to receive the laser beam to take measurements of said section of the part, wherein the laser generator and the laser receiver are each mounted in a housing, which includes a transparent member connected to each housing, and which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support, said sprayer operable to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part; and a display device in communication with the laser receiver, said display device operable to display said measurements. 81. The apparatus of claim 80, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 82. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support, a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer including a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing, wherein each housing includes a transparent member connected to said housing, and which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing; an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support opposite from the sprayer; and a display device positioned to face an operator, wherein the part measurer is operable to measure a dimension of a section of a part being coated, the display device is operable to display the measurements of the dimension to the operator, the sprayer is operable to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and a desired dimension of the section of the part and the exhaust duct is operable to exhaust excess coating that does not adhere to the part. 83. The apparatus of claim 82, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 84. The apparatus of claim 83, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to the sprayer. 85. The apparatus of claim 82, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 86. A coating apparatus comprising: means for supporting a part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying a coating to a section of the part; and means positioned adjacent to the support means for measuring a section of the part, wherein the measuring means is operable to measure a parameter of the section of the part being coated while the coating means applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on the parameter measurement and desired parameter measurement of the section of the part, wherein the measuring means includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the support means and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the support means, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing, wherein each housing include a transparent member connected to said housing, and which includes an excess coating reducer connected to the frame and positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 87. The apparatus of claim 86, wherein the support means includes a part support. 88. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 89. The apparatus of claim 86, wherein the coating means includes a sprayer. 90. The apparatus of claim 58, which includes a display device in communication with the measuring means and operable to display the parameter measurements of the section of the part. 91. The apparatus of claim 58, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 92. The apparatus of claim 58, which includes a display device which displays the parameter measurements of the section of the part. 93. The apparatus of claim 58, wherein the parameter is at least one of: a dimension of a section of the part; a thickness of a coating applied to the section of the part; and a thickness of a plurality of coatings applied to the section of the part. 