The stability of attitude of a robot can be recovered by an ambulation control apparatus and an ambulation control method if it is lost in the course of a gesture for which the upper limbs take a major role. The apparatus and the method obtain the pattern of movement of the entire body for walking by deriving the pattern of movement of the loins from an arbitrarily selected pattern of movement of the feet, the trajectory of the ZMP, the pattern of movement of the trunk and that of the upper limbs. Therefore, a robot can determine the gait of the lower limbs so as to realize a stable walk regardless if the robot is standing upright or walking. Particularly, if the robot is made to gesture, using the upper body half including the upper limbs and the trunk while standing upright, it can determine the gait of the lower limbs so as to make a stable walk in response to such a gait of the upper body half.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motion pattern generator apparatus of a robot which comprises at least upper limbs, lower limbs, a trunk and loins, moves using the lower limbs with keeping zero moment point (ZMP) into a target position, comprising: means for setting a motion of the feet, motion of the trunk, motion of the upper limbs and attitude and height of the loins in order to generate a requested motion; means for setting a trajectory of the ZMP on the basis of the set motion of the feet; means for obtaining a first approximate solution for the motion of the loins for balancing a moment on the set ZMP trajectory by means of a non-strict model of the robot; means for obtaining a second approximate solution for the motion of the loins for balancing a moment on the set ZMP trajectory by means of a strict model of the robot; means for finalizing the solution for the motion of the loins when the difference between the first and second approximate solution is less than a predetermined admissible value; means for modifying the moment on the ZMP of the non-strict model and inputting the modified value to the means for obtaining a first approximate solution when the difference between the first and second approximate solutions is not less than the predetermined admissible value; and means for generating a motion pattern of the entire body of the robot based on the obtained solution for the motion of the loins. 2. The motion pattern generator apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the non-strict model is a linear and/or non-interference multiple material point approximation mode for robots; and wherein the strict model is a rigid body model or a non-linear and/or interference approximation model of a multiple material point system. 3. The motion pattern generator apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: means for resetting/modifying a pattern of movement of the trunk and a pattern of movement of the upper limbs when the set motion of the trunk and the set motion of the upper limbs cannot be realized by the first approximate solution. 4. The motion pattern generator apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the means for obtaining a first approximate solution for the motion of the loins comprises means for obtaining an approximate solution for the motion of the loins by solving a balancing equation of the moment on the set ZMP generated by the motions of the feet, the trunk and the upper limbs and the moment on the ZMP generated by a horizontal plane motion of the loins. 5. The motion pattern generator apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the means for obtaining a first approximate solution for the motion of the loins comprises means for replacing a time function with a frequency function for computation. 6. The motion pattern generator apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the means for obtaining a first approximate solution for the motion of the loins comprises means for computationally determining Fourier coefficients of a horizontal plane trajectory of the loins by applying a Fourier series development to the moment on the set ZMP generated by the motions of the feet, the trunk and the upper limbs and also to the horizontal plane trajectory of the loins and additionally obtaining an approximate solution of the motion of the loins by applying an inverse Fourier series development. 