A wafer mapping sensor assembly includes a housing, and an imaging array positioned therein. Imaging optics are positioned relative to the array to focus an image upon the array. An illumination source is configured to direct illumination toward the wafer, where such illumination is reflected by the wafer. An optical element is interposed between the source and the wafer. The optical element directs the illumination to reduce the effects of undesirable illumination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer carrier mapping sensor assembly for detecting at least one wafer in a carrier, the at least one wafer having a wafer plane, the assembly comprising: a housing; a two-dimensional imaging array disposed within the housing; imaging optics disposed relative to the array to focus an image upon the array; and at least one light source disposed to only direct light toward the wafer at a non-zero angle with respect to the array plane of the wafer. 2. The assembly of claim 1, and further comprising an optical element disposed relative to the at least one light source to pass off-axis bend light therethrough. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the optical element is a cylindrical lens. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one illumination source is disposed within the housing. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one illumination source comprises a light emitting diode. 6. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the illumination source comprises at least two pairs of light emitting diodes, each pair including a light emitting diode disposed within the case on opposite sides of the imaging array. 7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein at least one pair of light emitting diodes is disposed farther from the imaging array than another pair. 8. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the light emitting diodes are disposed at an angle based upon their distance from the imaging array. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one illumination source includes eight (8) light emitting diodes. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one light source includes a laser light source. 11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the at least one light source includes twelve laser light sources. 12. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the imaging array is a CCD array. 13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the imaging array is a CMOS array. 14. A method of mapping at least one wafers having a wafer plane in a wafer carrier, the method comprising: providing a two-dimensional imaging array; directing light solely at non-zero angles relative to the wafer plane; imaging light reflected from the at least one wafer; and generating an output based on the imaged reflected light. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein directing the light at non-zero angles relative to the wafer array includes passing the light through an optical element off-axis. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the optical element is a cylindrical lens. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the non-zero angles have an absolute value in excess of approximately 5 degrees. 18. A wafer carrier mapping assembly for detecting at least one wafer in a carrier, the at least one wafer having a wafer plane with first and second sides, the assembly comprising: a housing; a two-dimensional imaging array disposed within the housing; imaging optics disposed relative to the array to focus an image upon the array; and at least one light source disposed to generate light on a first side of the wafer plane, and direct the light such that light either impinges the wafer, or passes on the second side of the wafer plane. 