A solenoid-operated liquid spray gun having a lightweight, corrosion resistant plastic housing which enables the spray gun to be mounted on and be more easily moved by robotic transfer devices. To effect the necessary flux loop within the plastic-housed spray gun for reciprocating a valve plunger in response to energization of the solenoid coil, the spray gun includes a radially disposed flux-directing member adjacent at least one end of the coil. The flux-directing member, while extending radially outwardly a distance less than the diameter of solenoid coil, effects efficient flux direction for operating the solenoid notwithstanding the lack of a magnetic conductive medium provided by the metal housing of conventional solenoid-operated spray guns.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A liquid spray gun comprising: a housing having a liquid inlet for connection to a pressurized liquid supply source, a discharge nozzle at a downstream end of said housing, a selectively energizable solenoid coil supported within said housing, an elongated core member disposed at least partially within said coil, a valve plunger disposed at least partially within said coil and being mounted for reciprocating linear movement relative to said coil and core for controlling the discharge of liquid from said nozzle, said core and plunger being made of metal, said housing being made of a non-metallic, non-magnetic conductive material, said housing being made of a non-metallic, non-magnetic conductive material such that over at least a portion of an elongated length of said coil no metallic flux-directing material is disposed outwardly of the coil, and a metallic flux-directing element adjacent an end of said coil for directing flux in a loop at least partially encompassing said core and plunger in response to energization of said coil for effecting reciprocating linear movement of said plunger. 2. The spray gun of claim 1 in which said flux-directing element is a metal flux-deflecting member mounted in outwardly extending radial relation to said core and plunger. 3. The spray gun of claim 2 in which said metal flux-deflecting member is an annular plate-like member with a central opening. 4. The spray gun of claim 3 in which said flux-deflecting member is a metal washer. 5. The spray gun of claim 2 in which said flux-deflecting member being disposed in a plane perpendicular to an axis of said coil. 6. The spray gun of claim 2 in which said flux-deflecting member has an outer diameter less than the outer diameter of said coil. 7. The spray gun of claim 2 in which said core has a forwardly extending metal tube within which said plunger is disposed for reciprocating movement, and said flux-deflecting member has a central opening greater than the diameter of said tube and core and extends in outwardly radial direction with respect thereto. 8. The spray gun of claim 2 in which said housing includes a pressurized air inlet for connection to a pressurized air supply source for enabling communication of air through said gun to said nozzle for assisting in atomization and direction of liquid discharging from said nozzle. 9. The spray gun of claim 8 in which said pressurized air communicates through an air passage in said gun extending through said coil and flux-deflecting member. 10. The spray gun of claim 9 in which said core has a forwardly extending metal tube within which said plunger is disposed for reciprocating movement, said coil, core, and tube defining an air flow passage through which pressurized air travels through said spray gun to said nozzle, and said flux-deflecting member having a central opening greater than the diameter of said tube and core so as not to interfere with the flow of pressurized air through said air flow passage. 11. The spray gun of claim 8 in which said housing includes a plastic body portion within which said liquid and air inlets are formed and a plastic cover mounted in forwardly extending relation to said body which defines a chamber within which said coil is contained. 12. The spray gun of claim 11 in which said spray nozzle is mounted at a downstream end of said cover, said spray nozzle including a liquid spray tip which defines a liquid discharge and a surrounding air cap into which pressurized air from said air inlet is communicated for facilitating atomization and direction of liquid from said nozzle. 13. The spray gun of claim 2 in which said metal flux-deflecting member is disposed at a downstream end of said coil. 14. A liquid spray apparatus comprising: a robot having a movable arm, a liquid spray gun mounted on said arm for movement therewith, said spray gun including a housing having a liquid inlet for connection to a liquid supply source, a discharge nozzle at a downstream end of said housing, a selectively energizable solenoid coil supported within said housing, an elongated metallic core member disposed at least partially within said coil, a metallic valve plunger disposed at least partially within said coil and being mounted for reciprocating linear movement relative to said coil and core for controlling the discharge of liquid from said nozzle, said housing being made of a non-metallic, non-magnetic conductive material such that over at least a portion of an elongated length of said coil no metallic flux-directing material is disposed outwardly of the coil, and a metallic flux-directing element adjacent an end of said coil for directing flux in a loop at least partially encompassing said core and plunger in response to energization of said coil for effecting reciprocating linear movement of said plunger. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 in which said flux-deflecting member extends in outward radial relation to said core and plunger. 16. The spray gun of claim 15 in which said metal flux-deflecting member is an annular plate-like member with a central opening. 17. The spray gun of claim 15 in which said flux-deflecting member being disposed in a plane perpendicular to an axis of said coil. 18. The spray gun of claim 17 in which said flux-deflecting member has an outer diameter less than the outer diameter of said coil. 19. The spray gun of claim 17 in which said core has a forwardly extending metal tube within which said plunger is disposed for reciprocating movement, and said flux-deflecting member has a central opening greater than the diameter of said tube and core and extends in outwardly radial direction with respect thereto. 20. The spray gun of claim 15 in which said metal flux-deflecting member is disposed at a downstream end of said coil. 21. The spray gun of claim 15 in which said housing includes a pressurized air inlet for connection to a pressurized air supply source for enabling communication of air through said gun to said nozzle for assisting in atomization and direction of liquid discharging from said nozzle including a plastic body portion within which said liquid and air inlets are formed and a plastic cover mounted in forwardly extending relation to said body which defines a chamber within which said coil is contained. 