The present invention enables the processing head to locate itself precisely on the surface of the structure being processed, and to then reposition itself correctly for the next laser spot. Further, the present invention will complete processing a laser peened area, the area including a multiplicity of spots arranged in a specific pattern, and correctly laser peen each spot in the area under control of a controller including control linkages with the laser. The invention further provides an automated laser peening processing head encompassing spatial position sensing and locating means, as well as programmed spatial positioning, application of overlay materials, verification of proper overlay condition and positioning, and notification of the laser to pulse the surface of the structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated laser peening process apparatus for automated laser peening processing of a workpiece, comprising: a laser beam unit configured for projecting a laser beam on a chosen process portion of a process area of the workpiece, the laser beam forming a laser spot and generating a pressure pulse and resulting compressive residual stresses on the chosen process portion; at least one of a beam locating mechanism and a position sensing device, said beam locating mechanism being configured for adjusting at least one characteristic of the laser spot, said position sensing device being configured to automatedly determine a spatial relationship of at least one feature of said apparatus relative to at least one of said workpiece and a laser peening processing pattern for said workpiece, the spatial relationship defining a relative position indicative of at least one of location and orientation; an application device for applying at least one process overlay to the process area; and a control unit for controlling operation of said laser beam unit, said at least one of said beam locating mechanism and said position sensing device, and said application device, said control unit being operatively linked with said laser beam unit, said at least one of said beam locating mechanism and said position sensing device, and said application device. 2. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1; wherein said laser beam unit, said at least one of a locating mechanism and said position sensing device, and said application device are conjunctively movable relative to one another. 3. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein said position sensing device is further configured for automatically verifying an actual location and an actual orientation of at least said laser beam unit. 4. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 3, wherein the control unit is configured for initiating a correction in at least one of the actual location and the actual orientation of at least the laser beam unit when the at least one of the actual location and the actual orientation is not within an acceptable range limit of a programmed position and orientation. 5. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 3, wherein said position sensing device including at least one of a laser positioning sensor, a video imaging sensor, a photo sensor, and an echo-location sensor. 6. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 3, wherein said position sensing device including at least one alignment/position sensor, at least one said alignment/position sensor being configured for detecting a presence and proper alignment of at least one of said process overlay. 7. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 6, wherein said at least one said alignment/position sensor is configured for instructing said control unit to permit activation of the laser beam unit upon the detection of the presence and proper alignment of at least one said process overlay. 8. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein each said process overlay is one of a transparent and opaque overlay. 9. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one said characteristic of the laser spot being one of an associated spot position, spot area, spot size, and nominal spot shape. 10. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 9, wherein said beam locating mechanism includes an adjustable lens-based beam delivery system, the adjustable lens-based beam delivery system having a lens configured for at least one of linear and rotational movement relative to an XYZ axis set. 11. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, further including a mobile processing head, the mobile processing head carrying said at least one of said beam locating mechanism and said position sensing device, the application device, and the laser beam unit, said mobile processing head being operatively linked with the control unit. 12. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 11, wherein said mobile processing head is configured for robotic movement via said control unit. 13. A method of automatically laser peening a workpiece, comprising the steps of: providing a mobile process head, said process head carrying a plurality of process head elements, said process head elements including a position sensing device, an application device configured for applying at least one process overlay, and a laser beam unit configured for generating a processing beam; providing a process control unit configured for controlling said process head and said position sensing device, said application device, and said laser beam unit carried by said process head; placing said process head in a general location of a processing pattern on the workpiece; performing an initial locating procedure using said control unit and said position sensing device to determine an initial position of said process head on the workpiece relative to the processing pattern; positioning said process head so as to correspond to a starting position of the processing pattern; and initiating a laser peening process at the starting position. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the workpiece has at least one appropriate surface reference feature associated therewith, the step of performing an initial locating procedure includes the substeps of orienting said position sensing device to at least one said appropriate surface reference feature, sensing at least one of a feature position and a feature orientation of said at least one said appropriate surface reference feature, and using at least one of a triangulation technique and a calibration and set-up procedure to determine the initial position of said process head based upon the at least one of a feature position and a feature orientation of each said appropriate surface reference feature. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of initiating a laser peening process further includes the sub-steps of: issuing a sequence of process commands from said control unit to said process head and said plurality of process head elements carried thereby; and performing a sequence of process actions with at least one of said process head and said plurality of process head elements, the sequence of process actions being based upon the sequence of process commands. 16. The method of claim 15, further including the sub-step of notifying said control unit of a proper completion of a given process action so as to thereby indicate that a next process action in the sequence of process actions can then be performed. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of initiating a laser peening process further includes the sub-steps of: verifying a proper positioning of said processing head, thereby establishing a verified head position; applying an opaque overlay material on the workpiece at the verified head position; verifying a proper positioning and application of the opaque overlay, thereby establishing a verified coating of opaque overlay material; applying a transparent overlay material on the verified coating of opaque overlay material; verifying a proper positioning and application of the transparent overlay, thereby establishing a verified coating of transparent overlay material; and firing a laser beam at the verified head position upon verifying a proper positioning and application of the opaque overlay and the transparent overlay. 18. The method of claim 17, further including the sub-step of verifying that the laser beam has fired with an appropriate monitored effect. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein an appropriate monitored effect includes at least one of appropriate plasma generation, beam spot size, and beam spot position. 20. The method of claim 17, further including the sub-steps of conducting at least one post-processing task and verifying a completion thereof. 21. The method of claim 17, further including the steps of: moving said process head to a next process location of the processing pattern; verifying a proper positioning of said processing head at the next process location, thereby establishing a next verified head position; applying an opaque overlay material on the workpiece at the next verified head position; verifying a proper positioning and application of the opaque overlay, thereby establishing a verified coating of opaque overlay material; applying a transparent overlay material on the verified coating of opaque overlay material; verifying a proper positioning and application of the transparent overlay, thereby establishing a verified coating of transparent overlay material; and firing a laser beam at the next verified head position upon verifying a proper positioning and application of the opaque overlay and the transparent overlay. 22. The method of claim 21, further including the step of verifying that the laser beam has fired with an appropriate monitored effect. 23. The method of claim 21, further including the steps of conducting at least one post-processing task and verifying a completion of at least one the post-processing task. 24. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control unit being configured to automatically control operation of said laser beam unit, said at least one of said beam locating mechanism and said position sensing device, and said application device. 25. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control unit being configured to coordinate operation of said laser beam unit, said at least one of said locating mechanism and said position sensing device, and said application device according to an automatic control process, the automatic control process being configured to facilitate positioning of said apparatus to a current processing position, application of the at least one process overlay, operation of said laser beam unit, and repositioning of said apparatus to a next processing position. 26. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, further includes a first device configured to selectably move at least one component of said apparatus, said control unit being configured to control operation of said first device. 27. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein the determination of spatial relationship by said position sensing device includes an initial position determination. 28. The automated laser peening process apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one apparatus feature pertaining to the spatial relationship determination by said position sensing device includes an indication of laser beam propagation path. 