A piezoelectric debris sensor and associated signal processor responsive to debris strikes enable an autonomous or non-autonomous cleaning device to detect the presence of debris and in response, to select a behavioral mode, operational condition or pattern of movement, such as spot coverage or the like. Multiple sensor channels (e.g., left and right) can be used to enable the detection or generation of differential left/right debris signals and thereby enable an autonomous device to steer in the direction of debris.
Claims We claim: 1. An autonomous cleaning apparatus, comprising: a drive system operable to enable movement of the cleaning apparatus; a controller in communication with the drive system, the controller including a processor operable to control the drive system to provide at least one pattern of movement of the cleaning apparatus; and a debris sensor responsive to debris being collected by the apparatus for generating a debris signal indicating that the cleaning apparatus is collecting debris; wherein the processor is responsive to the debris signal to (1) select an operative mode of the cleaning apparatus and (2) steer the cleaning apparatus toward an area containing debris. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the debris sensor comprises spaced-apart first and second debris sensing elements respectively operable to generate first and second debris signals; and wherein the processor is responsive to the respective first and second debris signals to select an operative mode and steer the cleaning apparatus toward an area containing debris. 3. The apparatus as in one of claim 1 or 2 wherein the debris sensor comprises a piezoelectric sensor element located proximate to a cleaning pathway of the cleaning apparatus and responsive to a debris strike to generate a signal indicative of such strike and thus of debris being collected. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the piezoelectric sensor element comprises a flexible piezoelectric film. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor is operable to receive the debris signal and calculate therefrom a debris gradient, representative of changes in debris strikes and thus of changes in debris being collected as the cleaning apparatus moves. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the processor is responsive to the sign of the debris gradient to select an operative mode. 7. A method of operating an autonomous cleaning apparatus, the method comprising: using a processor to control a drive system of the cleaning apparatus to provide at least one pattern of movement of the cleaning apparatus; using a debris sensor in communication with the processor and responsive to debris being collected by the cleaning apparatus to generate a debris signal indicating that the cleaning apparatus is collecting debris; and using the processor to respond to the debris signal to (1) select an operative mode of the cleaning apparatus and (2) steer the cleaning apparatus toward an area containing debris. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the debris sensor responsive to debris being collected comprises spaced-apart first and second debris sensing elements respectively operable to generate first and second debris signals; and wherein the processor is responsive to the respective first and second debris signals to select an operative mode and steer the cleaning apparatus toward an area containing debris. 9. The method as in one of claim 7 or 8 wherein the debris sensor responsive to debris being collected comprises a piezoelectric sensor element located proximate to a cleaning pathway of the cleaning apparatus and responsive to a debris strike to generate a signal indicative of such strike. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the piezoelectric sensor element comprises a flexible piezoelectric film. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the processor is operable to receive the debris signal and calculate therefrom a debris gradient, representative of changes in debris strikes, as the cleaning apparatus moves. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the processor is responsive to the sign of the debris gradient to select an operative mode. 