An apparatus and method of transferring and loading a reticle onto a receiving station (for example, a reticle exposure stage). The reticle is first retrieved from a storage facility with an end effector having an reticle plate coupled to a mounting plate. The mounting plate connects the end effector to a robotic arm. The reticle is aligned in an out-of-plane position in an off-line alignment station. The alignment is in compliance with the alignment requirement at the receiving station. The reticle is mounted onto the reticle plate after undergoing the alignment at the off-line alignment station. The reticle is then transferred from the off-line alignment station to the receiving station while maintaining the previous alignment at the off-line alignment station. The apparatus further provides rigidity of the mounted reticle to ensure compliance with the alignment requirement at the receiving station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: a connection system; a reticle plate including connecting areas that receive the connection system; a mounting plate that is coupled to the reticle plate via the connection system; a robot; and a connector that couples the mounting plate to the robot, wherein the connection system rigidly secures the reticle plate to the mounting plate in first through third degrees of freedom and compliantly secures it to the mounting plate in fourth through sixth degrees of freedom. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the connection system comprises: flexures that are position in the connecting areas of the reticle plate; a first set of securing devices that secure the flexures to the reticle plate; and a second set of securing devices that secure the mounting plate to the reticle plate and the flexures. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the connection system further comprises: a locking device on a surface of the mounting plate that interacts with the reticle plate, the locking device releaseably securing the mounting plate to the reticle plate. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the locking device is a vacuum lock. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the reticle plate further comprises a reticle securing system to releaseably hold a reticle. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the reticle securing system comprises a vacuum system. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the vacuum system comprises lands and seals. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first through third degrees of freedom substantially eliminate out-of-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the fourth through sixth degrees of freedom allow a predetermined amount of in-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot holds the reticle plate and mounting plate in a horizontal position during a first state and a vertical position during a second state. 11. A system, comprising: a reticle plate; a mounting plate; a means for connecting the reticle plate to the mounting plate to substantially eliminate out-of-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate and allow a predetermined amount of in-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate; a robot; and a connector that couples the mounting plate to the robot. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the means for connecting comprises: flexures that are position in connecting areas of the reticle plate; a first set of securing devices that secure the flexures to the reticle plate; and a second set of securing devices that secure the mounting plate to the reticle plate and the flexures. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the means for connecting further comprises: a locking device on a surface of the mounting plate that interacts with the reticle plate, the locking device releaseably securing the mounting plate to the reticle plate. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the locking device is a vacuum lock. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the reticle plate further comprises a means for securing a reticle to the reticle plate. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the means for securing comprises a vacuum system. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the vacuum system comprises lands and seals. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the robot holds the reticle plate and mounting plate in a horizontal position during a first state and a vertical position during a second state. 19. A system, comprising: a connection system; a reticle plate including connecting areas that receive the connection system; a mounting plate that is coupled to the reticle plate via the connection system; a robot; and a connector that couples the mounting plate to the robot, wherein the connection system substantially eliminates out-of-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate and allows a predetermined amount of in-plane movement of the reticle plate with respect to the mounting plate. 