A technique processes a sample of biomolecular analyte. The technique uses an apparatus having a support assembly that receives and supports a test module, a load assembly that loads the sample of biomolecular analyte onto the test module, an electrophoresis assembly that applies a current to the test module such that components within the sample separate by electrophoresis, and a controller that controls operations of the load assembly and the electrophoresis assembly. The load assembly and the electrophoresis assembly are coupled to the support assembly. The controller controls the operation of the load assembly in an automated manner. Preferably, the test module includes a dielectric plate member having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface that is spaced apart from and coplanar with the upper planar surface. The dielectric plate member has at least one set of channels that includes an injection channel and a separation channel. The injection channel extends from the upper planar surface to the lower planar surface. The separation channel extends within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersects the injection channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A test module assembly, comprising: a dielectric plate member having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface that is spaced apart from and parallel with the upper planar surface, the dielectric plate member having at least one set of channels that includes an injection channel and a separation channel, the injection channel having an end at the upper planar surface and another end at the lower planar surface, each end of the injection channel configured to allow fluid to penetrate the respective planar surface, the separation channel extending within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersecting the injection channel, the separation channel having ends, each end not coincidental with an intersection between the injection channel and the separation channel; and a housing that attaches to the dielectric plate member, the housing providing (i) a first opening over the upper planar surface such that a first end of the injection channel is accessible through the first opening, and (ii) a second opening over the lower planar surface such that a second end of the injection channel is accessible through the second opening. 2. The test module assembly of claim 1 wherein the injection channel intersects the separation channel at a right angle. 3. The test module assembly of claim 2 wherein the injection channel terminates at the upper and lower planar surfaces at right angles to the upper and lower planar surfaces. 4. The test module assembly of claim 1 wherein the injection channel terminates at the upper and lower planar surfaces at right angles to the upper and lower planar surfaces. 5. The test module assembly of claim 1 wherein the dielectric plate member is wedge shaped. 6. The test module assembly of claim 1 wherein the housing further provides a third opening over the upper planar surface such that the separation channel is accessible to a detection device through the third opening. 7. The test module assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a heating device, supported by the housing, that provides heat to the dielectric plate member when power is provided to the heating device. 8. The test module assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a first porous membrane that covers the first end of the injection channel and a second porous membrane that covers the second end of the injection channel to retain a matrix within the injection and separation channels, the first and second porous membranes being adhered to the dielectric plate member. 9. The test module assembly of claim 1 further comprising: an electromagnetic unloading device, coupled to the housing, that draws magnetic material towards the dielectric plate member when the electromagnetic unloading device is activated. 10. The test module assembly of claim 1 wherein the dielectric plate member includes multiple sets of channels, each set of channels including an injection channel and a separation channel, the injection channel of each set extending from the upper planar surface to the lower planar surface, the separation channel of each set extending within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersecting the injection channel of that set. 11. The test module assembly of claim 10 wherein the injection channels of the multiple sets of channels are parallel with each other. 12. The test module assembly of claim 1 wherein the dielectric plate member is rotatable, the rotatable dielectric plate member having multiple separation channels that extend within the rotatable dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces, the multiple separation channels extending radially from an inner portion of the rotatable dielectric plate member to an outer portion of the rotatable dielectric plate member. 13. The test module assembly of claim 12 wherein the rotatable dielectric plate member is disk shaped and further includes multiple injection channels, each of the multiple injection channels intersecting a corresponding one of the multiple separation channels within the outer portion of the rotatable dielectric plate member. 14. A test module assembly, comprising: a dielectric plate member having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface that is spaced apart from and parallel with the upper planar surface, the dielectric plate member having at least one set of channels that includes an injection channel and a separation channel, the injection channel extending from the upper planar surface to the lower planar surface, the separation channel extending within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersecting the injection channel, the injection channel having a first and second end configured to allow fluid flow through the upper and lower planar surface respectively; a first porous material that covers the first end of the injection channel and a second porous material that covers the second end of the injection channel to retain a matrix within the injection and separation channels; and a housing that attaches to the dielectric plate member, the housing providing (i) a first opening over the upper planar surface such that a first end of the injection channel is accessible through the first opening, and (ii) a second opening over the lower planar surface such that a second end of the injection channel is accessible through the second opening. 15. A test module assembly, comprising: a dielectric plate member having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface that is spaced apart from and parallel with the upper planar surface, the dielectric plate member having at least one set of channels that includes an injection channel and a separation channel, the injection channel extending from the upper planar surface to the lower planar surface, the separation channel extending within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersecting the injection channel, the injection channel having a first and second end configured to allow fluid flow through the upper and lower planar surface respectively; an electromagnetic unloading device positioned below the first end of the injection channel that draws magnetic material towards the dielectric plate member when the electromagnetic unloading device is activated; and a housing that attaches to the dielectric plate member, the housing providing (i) a first opening over the upper planar surface such that a first end of the injection channel is accessible through the first opening, and (ii) a second opening over the lower planar surface such that a second end of the injection channel is accessible through the second opening. 16. A test module assembly, comprising: a dielectric plate member having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface that is spaced apart from and parallel with the upper planar surface, the dielectric plate member having at least one set of channels that includes an injection channel and a separation channel, the injection channel extending from the upper planar surface to the lower planar surface, the separation channel extending within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersecting the injection channel, the injection channel having a first and second end configured to allow fluid flow through the upper and lower planar surface respectively, the injection channel and the separation channel each substantially filled with a separation matrix for separating a biomolecular analyte; and a housing that attaches to the dielectric plate member, the housing providing (i) a first opening over the upper planar surface such that a first end of the injection channel is accessible through the first opening, and (ii) a second opening over the lower planar surface such that a second end of the injection channel is accessible through the second opening. 17. A test module assembly, comprising: a dielectric plate member having an upper planar surface and a lower planar surface that is spaced apart from and parallel with the upper planar surface, the dielectric plate member having at least one set of channels that includes an injection channel and a separation channel, the injection channel extending from the upper planar surface to the lower planar surface, the separation channel extending within the dielectric plate member in a plane parallel with the upper and lower planar surfaces and intersecting the injection channel, the injection channel having a first and second end configured to allow fluid flow through the upper and lower planar surface respectively; an electrode proximate with each of the at least two ends of the injection channel for promoting electrokinetics in the set of channels; and a housing that attaches to the dielectric plate member, the housing providing (i) a first opening over the upper planar surface such that a first end of the injection channel is accessible through the first opening, and (ii) a second opening over the lower planar surface such that a second end of the injection channel is accessible through the second opening. 18. A method for separating a sample of biomolecular analyte, comprising the steps of: providing a test plate with a plurality of channels including injection channels and separation channels, the test plate oriented with each injection channel having a first end intersecting an upper surface of the test plate and a second end intersecting a lower surface of the test plate, each end of each injection channel configured to allow fluid to penetrate the respective surface, a portion of each separation channel being between the upper surface and lower surface of the test plate, the portion of each separation channel intersecting a respective injection channel, each separation channel having ends, each separation channel end not coincidental with an intersection between the respective injection channel and the separation channel; providing a housing attached to the test plate having openings over the upper and lower surfaces of the test plate such that each end of each injection channel is accessible through a corresponding opening; drawing the sample along one of the injection channels of the test plate using electrokinetics; and subsequently drawing the sample along the portion of the respective separation channel of the test plate using electrokinetics. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the steps of: drawing multiple samples along multiple injection channels of the test plate using electrokinetics simultaneously with the step of drawing the sample; and drawing the multiple samples along portions of multiple separation channels of the test plate using electrokinetics, the portions of the multiple separation channels respectively intersecting the multiple injection channels. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of: scanning the separation channel and the multiple separation channels with a detection device. 