A robotic containerization and palletizing system having a multiple-fingered end effector. In one embodiment, the system carries out a method of loading a tray in a container where the method includes creating a cell with a plurality of bays; assigning each bay a location; moving trays through the cell along a path; grasping a tray off the path with a robot positioned above the path; moving the robot, with the grasped tray, to the location of one bay; and instructing the robot to release the tray at the location of the one bay.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of loading a tray in a container, the method comprising: creating a cell with a plurality of bays and an access door; determining whether the access door is open or closed; assigning each bay a location; moving a plurality of trays through the cell along a path, each tray having a type; selecting one of the plurality of trays to move off the path; when the access door is closed, grasping the selected one of the plurality of trays off the path with a robot positioned above the path; configuring the robot so that it can automatically distinguish multiple types of trays from one another; moving the robot, with the grasped tray, to the location of one bay; and instructing the robot to release the grasped tray at the location of the one bay and locate the grasped tray at the location in a position that is determined based on the type of the grasped tray. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein each bay is associated with a container and the robot releases the tray in the container at the location of the one bay. 3. A method of loading a tray in a container, the method comprising: creating a cell with a plurality of bays; assigning each bay a location; moving trays through the cell along a path; grasping a tray off the path with a robot positioned above the path; moving the robot, with the grasped tray, to the location of one bay; and instructing the robot to release the tray at the location of the one bay, wherein each bay is associated with a container and the robot releases the tray in the container at the location of the one bay, wherein at least one container associated with one of the bays has a shelf, an upper portion, and a lower portion, the method further comprising checking the capacity of the container to determine whether the lower portion of the container is full; and lowering the shelf of the container after determining that the lower portion of the container is full. 4. A method as in claim 1, further comprising dividing each cell into at least two zones; and providing access to each zone through a door. 5. A method of loading a tray in a container, the method comprising: creating a cell with a plurality of bays; assigning each bay a location; moving trays through the cell along a path; grasping a tray off the path with a robot positioned above the path; moving the robot, with the grasped tray, to the location of one bay; and instructing the robot to release the tray at the location of the one bay, wherein the robot includes an end effector and a containment plate coupled to the end effector, and further comprising allowing the containment plate to travel in a vertical direction; and sensing movement of the containment plate. 6. A method of loading a tray in a container, the method comprising creating a cell defined by a frame; defining a plurality of bays in the cell by a portion of a surface and a portion of the frame; placing at least one container in one of the plurality of bays; moving a tray with a conveyor extending through the cell; and operating a robot positioned within the cell and mounted to the frame to pick up the tray from the conveyor and place the tray in the at least one container in one of the plurality of bays wherein the robot includes an end effector and a containment plate coupled to the end effector, and further comprising allowing the containment plate to travel in a vertical direction; and sensing movement of the containment plate. 