The present invention discloses a robotic manipulator, comprising at least one joint, each joint having a drive axis and at least one microelectromechanical system (MEMS) inertial sensor aligned with at least one drive axis providing sensing of a relative position of the drive axis. The robotic manipulator can include an inertial measurement unit (IMU) coupled to the robotic manipulator for determining the end effector position and orientation. A controller can be used, receiving a signal from at least one MEMS inertial sensor and controlling at least one joint drive axis in response to the signal to change the relative position of the joint drive axis. Rate information from MEMS sensors can be integrated to determine the position of their respective drive axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic manipulator, comprising: at least one joint, each joint having a drive axis; and a pair of single-axis microelectromechanical system (MEMS) inertial sensors are aligned with the drive axis, one of the MEMS inertial sensors on an input side of the drive axis and the other at the MEMS inertial sensors on the output side of the drive axis; wherein a relative rate is determined, the relative rate being a difference between inertial information from each of the pair of MEMS inertial sensors. 2. The robotic manipulator of claim 1, wherein the relative rate is integrated to determine the relative position of the drive axis. 3. The robotic manipulator of claim 2, wherein at least one joint comprises a rotary joint and the relative rate comprises a rate about the drive axis. 4. The robotic manipulator of claim 2, wherein at least one joint comprises a linear joint and the relative rate comprises a rate along the drive axis. 5. The robotic manipulator of claim 2, wherein the manipulator comprises at least one link moveable by the at least one joint. 6. The robotic manipulator of claim 5, wherein a MEMS inertial sensor is affixed to each moveable link to sense the relative rate position of the drive axis of the at least one joint of the robotic manipulator. 7. The robotic manipulator of claim 1, further comprising an end effector coupled to the robotic manipulator and positioned by the robotic manipulator. 8. The robotic manipulator of claim 7, further comprising an inertial measurement unit coupled to the robotic manipulator for determining an end effector position and orientation. 9. The robotic manipulator of claim 8, wherein measurements from the inertial measurement unit and at least one of the pair of the MEMS inertial sensor are combined in a least-squares filter. 10. The robotic manipulator of claim 1, further comprising a controller receiving a signal from at least one of the pair of MEMS inertial sensor and controlling the at least one joint drive axis in response to the signal to change a relative position of the joint drive axis. 11. The robotic manipulator of claim 10, wherein the controller directs each joint drive axis to a home position to set a reference for the controller. 12. A method of producing a robotic manipulator, comprising: providing at least one joint, each joint having a drive axis; aligning a pair of single-axis microelectromechanical system (MEMS) inertial sensors with the drive axis one of the MEMS inertial sensors on an input side of the drive axis and the other of the MEMS inertial sensors on the output side of the drive axis; and determining a relative rate, the relative rate being a difference between inertial information from each of the pair MEMS inertial sensors. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the relative rate is integrated to determine the relative position of the drive axis. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one joint comprises a rotary joint and the relative rate comprises a rate about the drive axis. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one joint comprises a linear joint and the relative rate comprises a rate along the drive axis. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the manipulator comprises at least one link moveable by the at least one joint. 17. The robotic manipulator of claim 16, wherein a MEMS inertial sensor is affixed to each moveable link to sense the relative rate of the drive axis of the at least one joint of the robotic manipulator. 18. The method of claim 12, further comprising coupling an end effector to the robotic manipulator and positioned by the robotic manipulator. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising coupling an inertial measurement unit to the robotic manipulator for determining an end effector position and orientation. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein measurements from the inertial measurement unit and at least one of the pair of MEMS inertial sensors are combined in a least-squares filter. 21. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving a signal with a controller from at least one of the pair of MEMS inertial sensors and controlling the at least one joint drive axis in response to the signal to change a relative position of the joint drive axis. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the controller directs each joint drive axis to a home position to set a reference for the controller. 