The invention provides a disc inspection and rejuvenation/repair system. The inspection system and rejuvenation/repair system may be provided as separate modules or may be combined in an integrated unit. The integrated unit may be manually operated, or may be an automated system comprising a controller and disk handling system Appertaining methods of operating the system and modules are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical disc inspection system, comprising: an inspection station having a drive input tray to receive a disc to be inspected, the inspection station being configured to check a track integrity and the track being chosen by a predetermined criterion, the inspection station being configured to determine a type of disc and make an appropriate inspection that is dependent on the type of disc; a user display for displaying a status of an inspection operation on the disc performed by the inspection station; a user input device for entering parameters for the inspection station and controlling the inspection station; and a main controller that is connected to the inspection station, the user display, and the user input device that controls the inspection operation, the main controller being configured to provide some indication of results of an inspection. 2. The disc inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the disc inspection station contains more than one disc drive. 3. The disc inspection system according to claim 1, further comprising a security board that protects system software on the main controller so that the system software can only be run with proper authorization. 4. The disc inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the user input device is a keyboard. 5. The disc inspection system according to claim 4, wherein the keyboard is a 21-key keyboard comprising at least one of a start/stop key for starting and stopping an inspection operation, an open/close key for opening and closing an inspection drive input tray, a display key for displaying information about a selected drive's operation, and a key for selecting which inspection station to operate on. 6. The disc inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the display comprises: a main display option for showing a status of the inspection drives; and a setup display for configuring an inspector setup, defect setup, or password change for entering a setup mode. 7. The disc inspection system according to claim 6, wherein the inspector setup comprises: a configuration setup for various disc type selections comprising a DVD-ROM inspection and a CD-ROM inspection. 8. The disc inspection system according to claim 7, wherein: the DVD-ROM inspection comprises various levels of an inspection criterion; and the CD-ROM inspection comprises various levels of an inspection criterion, which may be different from the DVD-ROM inspection criterion. 9. The disc inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the display further comprises: a history display for indicating past inspection results. 10. The disc inspection system according to claim 9, wherein the history display further comprises: summarized statistics for the past inspections; and statistics specific for an individual disc's inspection. 11. The disc inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the display further comprises: a graphic that pictorially illustrates where defects are located on a disc. 12. The disc inspection system according to claim 11, wherein the graphic pictorially illustrates defects that are based on a criteria of more than one cylinder read failure. 13. A method for inspecting an optical disc, comprising: entering process parameters and criteria at an input device; storing process parameters in a main controller; inserting a disc into an inspection station; reading a disc cylinder according to a criteria; determining if a fault is detected; if a fault is detected, then if a criteria is exceeded based on the detected fault, then removing the disc from the inspection station as a bad disc; if a criteria is not exceeded, then incrementing a fault count and continuing the method; determine if all cylinders determined by the criteria have been read; if all cylinders have been read, then removing the disc from the inspection station as a good disc; and if all cylinders have not been read, then repeating the method steps of reading a disc, determining if a fault is detected, and determining if all cylinders have been read. 14. The method for inspecting a disc according to claim 13, further comprising: displaying a status for one or more inspection drives on a display. 15. The method for inspecting a disc according to claim 13, wherein the entering of process parameters and criteria at an input device further comprises: entering information relating to at least one of an inspection setup, a defect setup, and a change of password. 16. The method for inspecting a disc according to claim 15, wherein the process of entering information of an inspection setup further comprises: entering information specific to a type of operation to be performed based on a type of inspection comprising a DVD-ROM inspection and a CD-ROM inspection. 17. The method for inspecting a disc according to claim 13, further comprising the step of: displaying a history of discs that have been inspected. 18. The method for inspecting a disc according to claim 13, further comprising the step of: displaying a pictorial representation of a disc where defects are shown on the pictorial representation in a relative position to where defects on the actual disc being inspected are located. 19. A method for inspecting a disc, according to claim 13, further comprising: determining a type of disc inserted into an inspection station, wherein the reading of a disc cylinder takes place according to a criteria that differs depending on the type of disc. 20. A method for repairing a damaged optical disc, comprising: providing a predetermined criteria for repair to a repair station controller; inserting a disc into a station input tray; closing the station input tray; mounting the disc on a disc holding assembly using the station controller; moving the disc holding assembly into a position for a repair operation using the station controller; rotating a brush that is in contact with the disc during the repair operation, and rotating the disc as well, where the speed of rotation of the brush and the disc is controlled by the station controller using the predetermined criteria; providing a fluid to the brush before or during the repair operation; moving the rotating brush over the disc during the repair operation along an axis that is parallel to the disc radius in a back and forth manner; ending the repair operation by the station controller based on the predetermined criteria; moving the disc holding assembly into the station input tray; extending the station input tray; and removing the disc from the-station input tray. 21. A method for repairing a damaged optical disc, comprising: providing a polish station predetermined criteria for inspection to a polish station controller; inserting a disc into a polish station input tray; closing the polish station input tray; mounting the disc on a polish station disc holding assembly using the polish station controller; moving the polish station disc holding assembly into a position for a polishing operation using the polish station controller; rotating a polish station brush that is in contact with the disc during the polishing operation, and rotating the disc as well, where the speed of rotation of the polish station brush and the disc is controlled by the polish station controller using the polish station predetermined criteria; providing a fluid to the polish station brush before or during the polishing operation; moving the rotating brush over the disc during the polishing operation along an axis that is parallel to the disc radius in a back and forth manner; ending the polishing operation by the station controller based on the polish station predetermined criteria; moving the polish station disc holding assembly into the polish station input tray; extending the polish station input tray; removing the disc from the polish station input tray; providing a rejuvenate station predetermined criteria for inspection to a rejuvenate station controller; inserting a disc into a rejuvenate station input tray; closing the rejuvenate station input tray; mounting the disc on a rejuvenate station disc holding assembly using the rejuvenate station controller; moving the rejuvenate station disc holding assembly into a position for a rejuvenating operation using the rejuvenate station controller; rotating a rejuvenate station brush that is in contact with the disc during the rejuvenating operation, and rotating the disc as well, where the speed of rotation of the rejuvenate station brush and the disc is controlled by the rejuvenate station controller using the rejuvenate station predetermined criteria; providing a fluid to the rejuvenate station brush before or during the rejuvenating operation; moving the rotating brush over the disc during the rejuvenating operation along an axis that is parallel to the disc radius in a back and forth manner; ending the rejuvenating operation by the station controller based on the rejuvenate station predetermined criteria; moving the rejuvenate station disc holding assembly into the rejuvenate station input tray; extending the rejuvenate station input tray; and removing the disc from the rejuvenate station input tray. 22. The method for repairing a damaged disc according to claim 20, wherein mounting the disc on a disc holding assembly further comprises: providing a holding hub on the disc holding assembly; lowering the disc holding assembly over the disc so that a narrow portion of the holding hub extends through the hole in the disc and until the disc top surface contacts a wide portion bottom surface; and moving a pin in the holding hub in a direction from the wide portion to the narrow portion so that a tapered end of the pin closest to the narrow portion forces ball bearings in holes of a circumferential groove in the narrow portion in a radially outward direction, thereby forcing an 0-ring to expand and hold the disc firmly against the hub wide portion bottom surface and against the disc holding platter. 23. The method for repairing a damaged disc according to claim 22, further comprising: providing a disc ejector mechanism on the disc holding assembly; moving a pin in the holding hub in a direction from the narrow portion to the wide portion so that the tapered end of the pin closest to the narrow portion withdraws the force against the ball bearings, thereby causing the 0-ring to contract and thus releasing the disc from the hub wide portion bottom surface and the disc holding platter; and forcing the disc away from the disc holding platter with the disc ejector mechanism. 24. The method for repairing a damaged disc according to claim 23, wherein the disc ejector mechanism is a ring of compressible material mounted on the disc holding assembly. 25. The method for repairing a damaged optical disc according to claim 20, wherein the fluid is provided to the brush at a predefined interval. 26. An optical disc integrated inspection and repair system, comprising: a main controller; a user display connected to the main controller for displaying status information; a user input device connected to the main controller for entering information including system configuration variables into the main controller; an inspection system having a disc inspection station that has a drive input tray to receive a disc to be inspected, the inspection station being configured to check a track integrity and the track being chosen by a predetermined criterion, the inspection station being configured to determine a type of disc and make an appropriate inspection that is dependent on the type of disc, and the inspection system being connected with the main controller for receiving the predetermined inspection criterion and to provide some indication of results of an inspection; and a repair system, comprising at least one repair station that comprises: a repair station input tray for inserting a disc into the repair station; a disc holding assembly for securely holding the disc during a repair operation; a disc movement motor that moves the disc in the disc holding assembly in a position for the repair operation; a rotating brush that contacts the disc during the repair operation; a fluid pump that delivers fluid to the rotating brush prior to or during the repair operation; and a repair station controller that controls the repair station input tray, the disc holding assembly, the disc movement motor, the rotating brush, and the fluid pump. 27. A method for inspecting and repairing an optical disc, comprising: entering process parameters and criteria at an input device; storing process parameters in a main controller; inserting a disc into an inspection station; reading a disc cylinder according to a criteria; determining if a fault is detected; if a fault is detected, then if a criteria is exceeded based on the detected fault, then removing the disc from the inspection station as a bad disc; if the criteria is not exceeded, then incrementing a fault count and continuing the method; determining if all cylinders determined by the criteria have been read; if all cylinders have been read, the removing the disc from the inspection station as a good disc; and if all cylinders have not been read, then repeating the method steps of reading a disc, determining if a fault is detected, and determining if all cylinders have been read; repairing a bad disc according to the following: providing a predetermined criteria for repair to a repair station controller; inserting the disc into a station input tray; closing the station input tray; mounting the disc on a disc holding assembly using the station controller; moving the disc holding assembly into a position for a repair operation using the station controller; rotating a brush that is in contact with the disc during the repair operation, and rotating the disc as well, where the speed of rotation of the brush and the disc is controlled by the station controller using the predetermined criteria; providing a fluid to the brush before or during the repair operation; moving the rotating brush over the disc during the repair operation along an axis that is parallel to the disc radius in a back and forth manner; ending the repair operation by the station controller based on the predetermined criteria; moving the disc holding assembly into the station input tray; extending the station input tray; and removing the disc from the station input tray. 28. An integrated optical disc inspection and repair system, comprising: a main controller: a user display connected to the main controller for displaying status information; a user input device connected to the main controller for entering information including system configuration variables into the main controller; an inspection system having a disc inspection station that is configured to determine if a disc requires repair according to a predefined criteria from the main controller, providing a disc inspection status on the user display; repair system having a repair station attached to the inspection station that receives a disc requiring repair and is configured to perform a repair operation on the disc requiring repair; disc holding devices upon which one or more discs are loaded for inspection and storing; and a disc handling system for moving discs to and from the disc holding devices and at least one of the inspection system and the repair system. 29. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 28, wherein the disc handling system further comprises: disc carrying assembly for physically moving discs in the system; a vertical drive for positioning the disc carrying assembly in a vertical direction; a disc holding device positioning drive for positioning the disc to any of the disc holding devices, to the inspection station, or to the repair station; wherein the vertical drive and the disc holding positioning drive are controlled by the main controller. 30. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 28, wherein the disc holding devices comprise at least two spindle assemblies having spindles upon which discs are lowered through their holes. 31. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 30, wherein the disc holding devices comprise: an input spindle assembly; a holding spindle assembly; one or more good disc spindle assemblies where discs that are inspected and determined as being good are placed, with a different good disc spindle assembly for each type of disc; and one or more bad disc spindle assemblies where discs that are inspected and determined as being bad after one or more repair operations are placed, with a different bad disc spindle assembly for each type of disc. 32. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 30, wherein the spindle assemblies each further comprise: a spindle disc base mount for affixing the spindle assembly to a fixed surface; a spindle base that sits on top of the base mount; and a spindle disc support that sits on top of the spindle base and is used to directly support the disc. 33. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 32, wherein the spindle disc support is angled with respect to the base to help prevent discs from sticking together when lifted by the disc carrying assembly. 34. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 31, wherein the input spindle assembly further comprises an offset configured to force an unwanted disk to become separated from a wanted disc when moving the wanted disc off of the spindle. 35. The integrated optical disc inspection and repair system according to claim 29, further comprising: a vacuum system for picking up discs with the disc carrying assembly; and wherein the disc carrying assembly further comprises: a disc centering mechanism, the disc centering mechanism further comprising: a rotatable arm that rotates the centering mechanism about a rotatable arm pivot out of the way when the disc carrying assembly is lowered onto a spindle; a disc centering pin having a tapered head and a back stop that is positioned through a hole in the rotatable arm, the pin being configured to be in a downward extended position in the absence of force from a spindle, held into place by the back stop and configured to move initially in a vertical direction when a force is applied until a top side of the tapered head contacts a bottom side of the rotatable arm, and then rotating about the rotatable arm pivot after the force is applied for a continued distance. 36. A method for inspecting and repairing an optical disc according to claim 26, further comprising: loading discs to be checked at an input disc holding device; moving a disc from the input disc holding device to an inspection disc drive of the inspection system using a robotic arm assembly; moving the disc from the inspection disc drive with the robotic arm assembly to either an input tray of the repair system after performing an inspection or to an output disc holding device depending on results of the inspection; and moving the disc from the input tray of the repair system with the robotic arm assembly to the inspection disc drive. 37. The method for inspecting and repairing an optical disc according to claim 31, further comprising: separating discs that are stuck together by moving the discs past an offset having a groove just larger than a disc thickness that forces a bottom unwanted disc to slide sideways and become un-stuck to a top desired disc. 