The present invention is a method for identifying unknown parameters in a system having a set of governing equations describing its behavior that cannot be put into regression form with the unknown parameters linearly represented. In this method, the vector of unknown parameters is segmented into a plurality of groups where each individual group of unknown parameters may be isolated linearly by manipulation of said equations. Multiple concurrent and independent recursive least squares identification of each said group run, treating other unknown parameters appearing in their regression equation as if they were known perfectly, with said values provided by recursive least squares estimation from the other groups, thereby enabling the use of fast, compact, efficient linear algorithms to solve problems that would otherwise require nonlinear solution approaches. This invention is presented with application to identification of mass and thruster properties for a thruster-controlled spacecraft.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer program product embodied on a computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions which when executed will perform a method for estimating a set of unknown parameters in a system having a set of governing equations describing its behavior that cannot be put into regression form with said unknown parameters linearly represented and measurements that are sampled regularly, the method comprising: (a) segmenting the set of said unknown parameters into a plurality of predetermined subsets wherein each individual subset of said unknown parameters is isolated linearly by manipulation of said equations; and (b) estimating concurrently and independently each said individual subset of said unknown parameters, thereby enabling simultaneous estimation of all unknown parameters, wherein said unknown parameters are treated as being perfectly known by estimating independently each said individual subset of unknown parameters thereby providing unknown parameter values. 2. The computer program product of claim 1, further comprising controlling when to update Unknown parameter subset estimates and when to ignore a set of said measurements. 3. The computer program product of claim 1, further comprising enabling additional robustness to anomalous data by allowing nominal values, or values calculated with algorithms that are robust to the anomalous data, in place of at least one of said unknown parameter values when an anomaly is detected. 4. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein said computer program product is implemented on-board a system to provide real-time parameter updates for on-board processes including one or more of control, estimation, navigation and fault tolerance. 5. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein said computer program is implemented on a processor separate from said system, and wherein said system communicates measurements and results to said processor. 6. The computer program product of claim 1, further comprising adjusting inputs to said system to minimize any negative impact on overall system performance, the method comprising: evaluating the unknown parameters most requiring improved estimation; selecting system trajectories or inputs that improve the estimation for these parameters, while balancing other system requirements; and implementing the optimally selected system inputs. 7. The computer program product of claim 1, further comprising calculating updated nominal values associated with a subset, wherein said subset comprises said parameters undergoing predetermined changes in time; estimating the deviation of said parameters from their nominal values; and identifying said unknown parameters when said nominal values are updated. 8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the system is a thruster-controlled spacecraft, and said changes are derived from the depletion of fuel mass. 9. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein said system is a spacecraft, the unknown parameters comprising: the six independent parameters of the spacecraft inertia matrix, as measured about the center of mass; the six independent parameters of the inverse of said inertia matrix; and the magnitude of thrust produced by each thruster. 10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein vehicle inertia properties and motions generate both insignificant and significant gyroscopic effects, said significant gyroscopic effects enabling identification of said inertia matrix to continue during periods of coasting between thruster firings. 11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the spacecraft is thruster-controlled. 12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the computer program is implemented on a main spacecraft processor, wherein said main spacecraft processor is on-board the spacecraft. 13. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the computer program is implemented on-board the spacecraft, the spacecraft having a main processor and a secondary processor communicating with the main processor, wherein the method is stored and run on the secondary processor. 14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the computer program is implemented on a main spacecraft processor, wherein said main spacecraft processor is on-board the spacecraft further comprising performing at a ground station said calculations based on telemetry from the spacecraft and transmitting the calculated results back to the spacecraft. 15. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein said measurements are obtained from sensors, wherein the sensors are at least one of gyroscopes, accelerometers, star trackers, sun sensors, horizon sensors, video cameras, directional antennae, radar or other measurement devices that directly or indirectly measure spacecraft motion. 