A method and apparatus for reacting a plurality of different mixtures in parallel in a semi-batch or continuous mode is provided. Each reaction is contained within a reactor vessel, the reactor vessels combined into a reactor block. Reactant(s) to be added during the reaction are kept in a header barrel, which has a plunger to feed reactant(s) from the header barrel through a transfer line into the reactor vessel. The plunger is moved using a drive system. The header barrels are optionally combined in a header block. The header block is sealed to a plate containing the transfer lines, which in turn is sealed to the reactor block. A latch mechanism is provided for easy sealing of the reactor and header blocks to the plate. The entire apparatus may be placed on a rocker or rotating plate for mixture as the reaction is proceeding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for effecting a set of semi-continuous or continuous chemical reactions in a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the apparatus comprising a filling station comprising an automated robotic liquid-handling system adapted for loading starting materials into a plurality of reactor vessels of a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the liquid handling system being controlled by a processor having a software interface for allowing a user to supply operating parameters to the processor, the parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor comprising (i) the plurality of semi-continuous or continuous sealed, isolated reactor vessels for containing the starting materials, (ii) multiple header barrels for containing liquid reactants, and (iii) a transfer system comprising one or more pumps and multiple transfer lines configured for feeding liquid reactants from each of the multiple header barrels to each of the plurality of sealed, isolated reactor vessels during a reaction, the transfer system being controlled by a processor so that reactants can be fed to the reactor vessels at a desired rate during the reaction, wherein the transfer system of the parallel reactor comprises, for each of the multiple header barrels: (i) a pump, (ii) a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and (iii) a transfer line providing selective communication between the pump and each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer line including a valve for serially directing flow into each of the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, a temperature monitoring and control system adapted for maintaining the plurality of reactor vessels at the same temperature during the set of reactions and maintaining the plurality of reactor vessels at different temperatures during the set of reactions, and a stirring system for mixing the contents of the reactor vessels during the set of reactions. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a reactor vessel handling system for automated robotic handling and transfer of the reactor vessels from the filling station to the parallel reactor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the tops of the reactor vessels are held in an array format by the reactor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reactor further comprises a reactor block comprising the plurality of semi-continuous or continuous sealed, isolated reactor vessels for containing starting materials, wherein the reactor vessels are removable and the reaction block comprises a plurality of wells for receiving the plurality of removable vessels. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising a reactor vessel handling system for automated robotic handling and transfer of the reactor vessels from the filling station to the reaction block. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the tops of the reactor vessels are held in an array format by the reaction block. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the operating parameters for the liquid-handling system include initial compositions of starting materials, and coordinates of the reactor vessels. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the liquid-handling system is further adapted for loading liquid reactants into the multiple header barrels. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the temperature monitoring and control system is further adapted for maintaining the multiple header barrels at the same temperature during the set of reactions and maintaining the multiple header barrels at different temperatures during the set of reactions. 10. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least six reactor vessels. 11. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least forty-eight reactor vessels. 12. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least ninety-six reactor vessels. 13. The parallel reactor of claim 4 wherein the removable reactor vessels are glass vials. 14. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the stirring system is a mechanical stirring system. 15. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least six reactor vessels arranged in a monolithic reaction block. 16. The parallel reactor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of reactors vessels comprises at least six reactor vessels arranged in a reaction block comprising two or more modules. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the reactor vessels are removable and the reaction block comprises a plurality of wells for receiving the plurality of removable vessels. 18. An apparatus for effecting a set of semi-continuous or continuous chemical reactions in a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the apparatus comprising a filling station comprising an automated robotic liquid-handling system adapted for loading starting materials into six or more removable reactor vessels of a parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor, the liquid handling system being controlled by a processor having a software interface for allowing a user to supply operating parameters to the processor, the parallel semi-continuous or continuous reactor comprising (i) six or more removable, semi-continuous or continuous sealed, isolated reactor vessels for containing the starting materials, the six or more reactor vessels being removably arranged in the reactor, (ii) multiple header barrels for containing liquid reactants, and (iii) a transfer system comprising one or more pumps and multiple transfer lines configured for feeding liquid reactants from each of the multiple header barrels to each of the plurality of sealed, isolated reactor vessels during a reaction, the transfer system being controlled by a processor so that reactants can be fed to the reactor vessels at a desired rate during the reaction, wherein the transfer system of the parallel reactor comprises, for each of the multiple header barrels: (i) a pump, (ii) a feed line providing fluid communication between the header barrel and the pump, and (iii) a transfer line providing selective communication between the pump and each of the plurality of reactor vessels, the transfer line including a valve for serially directing flow into each of the plurality of reactor vessels during a reaction, a reactor vessel handling system for automated robotic handling and transfer of the six or more reactor vessels from the filling station to the parallel reactor, a temperature monitoring and control system adapted for maintaining the six or more reactor vessels at the same temperature during the set of reactions and maintaining the six or more reactor vessels at different temperatures during the set of reactions, and a mechanical stirring system for mixing the contents of the reactor vessels during the set of reactions. 