Devices and methods for controlling and monitoring the progress and properties of multiple reactions are disclosed. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental reactors as well. The apparatus generally includes multiple vessels for containing reaction mixtures, and systems for controlling the stirring rate and temperature of individual reaction mixtures or groups of reaction mixtures. In addition, the apparatus may include provisions for independently controlling pressure in each vessel, and a system for injecting liquids into the vessels at a pressure different than ambient pressure. In situ monitoring of individual reaction mixtures provides feedback for process controllers, and also provides data for determining reaction rates, product yields, and various properties of the reaction products, including viscosity and molecular weight Computer-based methods are disclosed for process monitoring and control, and for data display and analysis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for monitoring the consumption of a gas-phase reactant in a catalyzed liquid-phase reaction contained in a vessel by monitoring pressure changes in the vessel, the method comprising loading the vessel with a liquid-phase reaction material, introducing the gas-phase reactant into the vessel, pressurizing the vessel, allowing the gas-phase reactant and the liquid-phase reaction material in the pressurized vessel to reach equilibrium with respect to the concentration of the gas-phase reactant in the liquid-phase reaction material, injecting a catalytic liquid containing a catalyst for reacting the gas-phase reactant into the pressurized vessel containing the gas-phase reactant in equilibrium with the liquid-phase reaction material to form a liquid-phase reaction mixture comprising the liquid-phase reaction material and the catalyst, reacting the gas-phase reactant in the liquid-phase reaction mixture such that the pressure in the vessel decays as the gas-phase reactant is consumed, sensing the pressure within the vessel, introducing additional gas-phase reactant into the vessel when the pressure in the vessel has decayed to a predetermined lower pressure limit, P.sub.L, to increase the pressure in the vessel, discontinuing the introduction of additional gas-phase reactant into the vessel in response to the pressure in the vessel increasing to a predetermined upper pressure limit, P.sub.H, and recording the pressure change data. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the vessel is pressurized to a pressure greater than about 10 psig. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the difference between the predetermined upper pressure limit, P.sub.H, and the predetermined lower pressure limit, P.sub.L, is about 4 psig. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the gas-phase reactant comprises a gaseous monomer, the liquid-phase reaction material comprises a solvent for the gaseous monomer and the gaseous monomer is catalytically polymerized in the liquid-phase reaction mixture. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the gas-phase reactant comprises a gaseous monomer, the liquid-phase reaction material comprises a liquid monomer and the gaseous monomer and liquid monomer are catalytically co-polymerized in the liquid-phase reaction mixture. 6. A method for parallel processing of a plurality of reaction mixtures contained in a plurality of vessels and for monitoring the consumption or production of a gas-phase component of the reaction mixtures by monitoring the pressure changes in the vessels, the method comprising reacting the reaction mixtures in a plurality of vessels such that the pressure in the vessels changes as the gas-phase component of the reaction mixtures is consumed or produced, sensing the pressure within the vessels, passing the gas-phase component of the reaction mixture into or out of the vessels in response to the pressure sensed within the vessels, and recording the pressure change data for each of the vessels. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6, wherein the gas-phase component of the reaction mixture is a gas-phase reactant such that the pressure in the vessels decays as the gas-phase reactant is consumed, additional gas-phase reactant being introduced into each of the vessels when the pressure sensed in the vessel has decayed to a predetermined lower pressure limit, P.sub.L, to increase the pressure in the vessel, and the introduction of additional gas-phase reactant into each of the vessels being discontinued in response to the pressure sensed in the vessel increasing to a predetermined upper pressure limit, P.sub.H. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the reaction mixtures are catalyzed liquid-phase reaction mixtures, the method further comprising loading the vessels with a liquid-phase reaction material, introducing the gas-phase reactant into the vessels, pressurizing the vessels, allowing the gas-phase reactant and the liquid-phase reaction material in the pressurized vessels to reach equilibrium with respect to the concentration of the gas-phase reactant in the liquid-phase reaction material, and injecting a catalytic liquid containing a catalyst for reacting the gas-phase reactant into the pressurized vessels containing the gas-phase reactant in equilibrium with the liquid-phase reaction material to form the catalyzed liquid-phase reaction mixtures comprising the liquid-phase reaction material and the catalyst. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8 wherein the gas-phase reactant comprises a gaseous monomer, the liquid-phase reaction material comprises a solvent for the gaseous monomer and the gaseous monomer is catalytically polymerized in the liquid-phase reaction mixtures. 10. The method as set forth in claim 8 wherein the gas-phase reactant comprises a gaseous monomer, the liquid-phase reaction material comprises a liquid monomer and the gaseous monomer and liquid monomer are catalytically co-polymerized in the liquid-phase reaction mixtures. 11. The method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the vessels are pressurized to a pressure greater than about 10 psig. 12. The method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the difference between the predetermined upper pressure limit, P.sub.H, and the predetermined lower pressure limit, P.sub.L, is about 4 psig. 13. The method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising sensing the temperature of the reaction mixtures in the vessels. 14. The method as set forth in claim 13 further comprising determining pressure changes in the vessels resulting from variation in the temperature of the reaction mixtures. 15. The method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising regulating the temperature of the reaction mixtures in the vessels. 16. The method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising using the pressure change data for each of the vessels due to the consumption or production of the gas-phase component of the reaction mixtures to assess reaction kinetics and thereby screen the reaction mixtures. 17. The method as set forth in claim 16 wherein the reaction mixtures are catalyzed liquid-phase reaction mixtures and the pressure change data for each of the vessels due to the consumption or production of the gas-phase component of the reaction mixtures is used to assess the activity of the catalysts. 18. The method as set forth in claim 16 further comprising displaying on a monitor the pressure change data. 19. The method as set forth in claim 16 further comprising performing a calculation using the pressure change data to determine an experimental variable for one of the vessels. 20. The method as set forth in claim 19 further comprising displaying on a monitor the experimental variable calculated using the pressure change data. 21. The method as set forth in claim 19 wherein the experimental variable calculated using the pressure change data is the consumption or production rate of the gas-phase component of the reaction mixtures. 22. The method as set forth in claim 6 further comprising injecting a reaction material into one or more of the vessels while the pressure within the vessel is different from ambient pressure. 23. The method as set forth in claim 22 wherein the reaction material injected into one or more of the vessels is a quenching agent used to terminate the reaction in the vessel. 24. The method as set forth in claim 23 wherein the quenching agent is injected into one or more of the vessels once a specified conversion target has been attained. 25. The method as set forth in claim 24 wherein the liquid reaction mixtures are catalyzed liquid-phase reaction mixtures and the quenching agent injected into one or more of the vessels is a liquid-phase catalyst poison. 26. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising sensing the temperature of the reaction mixture in the vessel. 27. The method as set forth in claim 26 further comprising determining pressure changes in the vessel resulting from variation in the temperature of the reaction mixture. 28. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising regulating the temperature of the reaction mixture in the vessel. 29. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising displaying on a monitor the pressure change data. 30. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising performing a calculation using the pressure change data to determine an experimental variable for the vessel. 31. The method as set forth in claim 30 further comprising displaying on a monitor the experimental variable calculated using the pressure change data. 32. The method as set forth in claim 30 wherein the experimental variable calculated using the pressure change data is the consumption rate of the gas phase reactant. 