A robot apparatus 1 is a four-legged mobile robot, and leg units 3A, 3B, 3C, and 3D are connected to the left and side parts in the front and rear sides of a body unit 2. A head unit 4 is connected to the front end of the body unit 2. The head unit 4 has a mouth (jaw) part capable of biting and holding a toy 200 shaped like a bone. The mouth part is constituted by upper and lower jaw parts, and adopts a structure capable of biting and securely holding a bit part 203 of the bone 200. A CPU as a control part executes programs according to an image recognition processing algorithm for recognizing the bone 200, a bone-bite control algorithm for biting the bone, and a bone-bite detection algorithm for detecting the bone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus which autonomously makes actions, based on external environment, comprising: image pick-up means for picking up an image of an object in the external environment; calculation means for calculating a circularity of a label included in image data based on the image picked up by the image pickup means; and distinguish means for distinguishing a characteristic part of the object, depending on the circularity calculated by the calculation means, wherein when the object is a toy having a rod-like bite part to be bitten and held by a mouth part formed in a head unit of the robot apparatus, and two side parts each formed in a substantially triangular shape and both formed respectively at two ends of the toy with the bite part interposed between the two side parts, circularities of labels based on a color applied to predetermine areas of the bite part and the two side parts are calculated by the calculation means, and the distinguish means distinguishes the bite part and the side parts from each other, based on the circularities. 2. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, having plural leg parts which are driven according to predetermined patterns to walk. 3. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a placement angle of the toy is detected from the rod-like bite part. 4. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the distinguish means distinguishes the bite part of the two side parts from each other, based on a short-term memory. 5. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the calculation means calculates the circularities of the labels obtained by performing a compensation processing. 6. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the mouth part formed in the head unit of the robot apparatus includes an upper jaw part and a lower jaw part which moves relative to the upper jaw part, a recess for receiving the bite part is formed in the lower jaw part, and a material having a high friction coefficient is used to help holding the toy. 7. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising control means for executing a bite detection algorithm to detect an object bitten and held by the mouth part, wherein a load a joint between the upper and lower jaw parts is evaluated, and a gain of an actuator which moves the lower jaw part is adjusted when the evaluated load works in a direction in which the object is held. 8. The robot apparatus according to claim 7, wherein when the gain of the actuator is determined as being greater than a predetermined value, the control means lowers the gain of the actuator. 9. The robot apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the control means determines whether or not the mouth part has bitten and holds a targeted object, depending on a joint angle between the upper and lower jaw parts. 10. A control method for a robot apparatus which autonomously makes actions, based on external environment, comprising: an image pick-up step of picking up an image of an object in the external environment; a calculation step of calculating a circularity of a label included in image data based on the image picked up in the image pickup step; and a distinguish step of distinguishing a characteristic part of the object, depending on the circularity calculated in the calculation step, wherein when the object is a toy having a rod-like bite part to be bitten and held by a mouth part formed in a head unit of the robot apparatus, and two side parts each formed in a substantially triangular shape and both formed respectively at two ends of the toy with the bit part interposed between the two side parts, circularities of labels based on a color applied to predetermined areas of the bite part and the two side parts are calculated in the calculation step, and the bite part and the side parts are distinguished from each other in the distinguish step, based on the circularities calculated in the calculation step. 11. The control method according to claim 10, wherein in the calculation step, the circularities of the labels obtained by performing a compensation processing are calculated. 12. The control method according to claim 10, further comprising a control step of executing a bite detection algorithm to detect an object bitten and held by the mouth part, wherein a load to a joint between the upper and lower jaw parts is evaluated, and a gain of an actuator which moves the lower jaw part is adjusted when the evaluated load works in a direction in which the object is held. 13. The control method according to claim 12, wherein when the gain of the actuator is determined as being greater than a predetermined value, the gain of the actuator is lowered, in the control step. 14. The control method according to claim 13, wherein whether or not the mouth part has bitten and holds a targeted object is determined depending on a joint angle between the upper and lower jaw parts, in the control step. 15. A toy for a robot apparatus which autonomously makes actions, based on external environment, the toy comprising: a rod-like bite part to be bitten and held by a mouth part formed in a head unit of the robot apparatus; and two side parts each formed in a substantially triangular shape and both formed respectively at two ends of the toy with the bite part interposed between the two side parts, wherein predetermined areas of the bite part and the two side parts are each colored in a color applied with a label by an image recognition processing of the robot apparatus, circularities of labels are calculated by the calculation means, and the bite part and the side parts are distinguished from each other, based on the circularities. 