A sorter for handling and sorting semiconductor wafers is provided. The sorter has a housing, a handling and transport device and at least one nonproduction wafer buffer module. The housing has at least one holding area for interfacing one or more semiconductor wafer carriers to the housing. The housing defines an access path along which semiconductor wafers are transported between the housing and the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers. The handling and transport device is connected to the housing for transporting semiconductor wafers along the access path. The at least one nonproduction wafer buffer module is connected to the housing. The at least one nonproduction wafer buffer module buffers nonproduction wafers sorted by the sorter to one or more semiconductor wafer carriers. The at least one nonproduction wafer buffer module is located so that nonproduction wafers are transported by the handling and transport device, when being sorted to one or more of the semiconductor wafer carriers, along a different path than the access path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer sorter for handling and sorting semiconductor wafers and originating a predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in one or more semiconductor wafer carriers, the semiconductor wafer sorter comprising: a housing with at least one load port module for interfacing the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers to the housing, an access path defined by the housing and extending through a closable opening of the at least one load port module disposed between the housing and the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers along which semiconductor wafers are transported from the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers having an initial sort, through the housing and into the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers resorting the semiconductor wafers within the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers from the initial sort and originating the predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in the one or more semiconductor carriers disposed on the at least one load port module, a handling and transport device connected to the housing for transporting semiconductor wafers along the access path, and at least one non-production wafer buffer module connected to the housing, the at least one non-production wafer buffer module buffering non-production wafers introduced by the sorter to the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers when originating the predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers, a second path extending through the closable opening between the non-production buffer module and the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers, a controller configured to control the handling and transport device for effecting introduction of non-production wafers to the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers along the second path and the origination of the predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers along the access path, and wherein the at least one nonproduction wafer buffer module is located so that non-production wafers are transported by the handling and transport device, when being sorted to the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers, along the second path between the non-production buffer module and the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers, the second path being different than the access path and having an end point that is independent of the access path. 2. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the housing forms an environmental front end module. 3. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the handling and transport device has a scara arm. 4. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the at least one non-production wafer buffer module is included in the housing. 5. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the at least one non-production wafer buffer module is mounted to the exterior of the housing. 6. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the at least one non-production wafer buffer module communicates with an interior of the housing through a closable opening. 7. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the nonproduction wafers are test wafers. 8. A semiconductor wafer processing tool comprising the sorter according to claim 1. 9. The sorter according to claim 1, wherein the at least one nonproduction wafer buffer module comprises either vertical supports, horizontal supports, or point arrays. 10. A method of handling and sorting semiconductor wafers and originating a predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in one or more wafer carriers with a sorter comprising: providing the sorter with a housing having an integral non-productive wafer buffer module and at least one load port module, an access path defined by the housing and extending through a closable opening of the at least one load port module disposed between the housing and the one or more wafer carriers located on the at least one load port module, the access path being arranged for transporting the semiconductor wafers from one or more wafer carriers having an initial sort, through the housing and into the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers resorting the semiconductor wafers within the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers from the initial sort and originating the predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in the one or more semiconductor carriers disposed on the at least one load port module, a second path extending through the closable opening between the non-productive wafer buffer module and the one or more wafer carriers, and a controller configured to control the sorter for transferring wafers between the housing and the one or more wafer carriers along the access path and transferring non-productive wafers between the non-productive wafer buffer module and the one or more wafer carriers along the second path; buffering non-productive wafers introduced by the sorter to the one or more wafer carriers at the buffer module when originating the predetermined sort order of semiconductor wafers in one or more wafer carriers; sorting with the sorter, under the control of the controller, wafers within a wafer carrier interfaced with the housing at the at least one load port module of the housing and along the access path, wherein sorting comprises, moving non-productive wafers from the buffer module to the wafer carrier interfaced with the housing along a second path between the non-production buffer module and the one or more semiconductor wafer carriers, the second path being different than the access path and having an end point that is independent of the access path. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising providing the non-productive wafers from a source that is different than the wafer carrier. 