An inventory system including a plurality of mobile inventory trays with a positioning system that enables the mobile inventory trays to determine their three-dimensional coordinates within a facility and thereby navigate a factory floor. The mobile inventory trays are also equipped with a communication system in order to determine optimum mobile inventory trays to fill order requests for items of inventory. The mobile inventory trays interface with a material handling system to receive order requests and deliver inventory items to pack stations located on the factory floor. The resulting system is a real-time parallel-processing order fulfillment and inventory management system. It is emphasized that this abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher or other reader to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for managing inventory items in a warehouse, comprising: a plurality of mobile inventory trays having a communications link coupled to a microprocessor, each of the mobile inventory trays being self-powered and configured to move about the warehouse responsive to control signals of the microprocessor; a material handling system (MHS) to send an order request to one or more of the mobile inventory trays via a wireless link, the order request associated with one or more inventory items requested by a customer placing an order; and one or more pack stations, one or more of the mobile inventory trays, in response to receiving the order request, transporting an inventory item associated with the order request to a pack station to be packaged. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein each of the mobile inventory trays is operable to communicate with every other mobile inventory tray so as to determine an optimal set of mobile inventory trays to fill the order request. 3. The system of claim I wherein each of the mobile inventory trays contains a guidance system that provides position signals to the microprocessor. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the guidance system comprises a global positioning system (GPS). 5. The system of claim 3 wherein each of the mobile inventory trays uses the guidance system to clear paths on a factory floor with peer mobile in inventory trays or to queue with other mobile inventory trays. 6. The system of claim 2 wherein the optimal set of mobile inventory trays use their microprocessor to calculate and direct their own movement to the one or more pack stations. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the MHS first transmits the order request to a pack station, the pack station transmitting the order request to the one or more mobile inventory trays using an RF transmitter. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more mobile inventory trays receive the order request using an RF system coupled to the microprocessor on each of the mobile inventory trays. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein a plurality of order requests may be processed simultaneously. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein one or more order requests may be processed in real-time. 11. A system for managing a factory, comprising: a plurality of mobile inventory trays having a communications link coupled to a microprocessor, each of the mobile inventory trays being self-powered and configured to move about the factory responsive to control signals of the microprocessor; a material handling system (MHS) to send data to one or more of the mobile inventory trays via a wireless link; one or more pack stations, one or more of the mobile inventory trays, in response to receiving the data, transporting an inventory item associated with the data to a pack station to be packaged; and one or more check-in stations, one or more of the mobile inventory trays moving to the one or more of the check-in stations in response to the data. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein each of the mobile inventory trays is operable to communicate with every other mobile inventory tray so as to determine an optimal set of mobile inventory trays to fill an order request. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein each of the mobile inventory trays contains a global positioning system (GPS) that provides signals to the microprocessor. 14. The system of claim 11 wherein the mobile inventory trays use the GPS to navigate the factory floor. 15. The system of claim 12 wherein the optimal set of mobile inventory trays use their microprocessor to calculate and direct their own movement to the one or more pack stations. 16. The system of claim 12 wherein a pack station tracks order requests that have been filled by the optimal set of mobile inventory trays. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the tracking information is transmitted to the optimal set of mobile inventory trays using a communication link between the pack station and the optimal set of mobile inventory trays. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the mobile inventory trays move back to the factory floor once the tracking information indicates the pack operation is complete. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein the tracking information is transmitted to the MHS. 20. The system of claim 16 wherein the pack station tracks order requests using a barcode scanner to scan barcodes affixed to items of inventory. 21. The system of claim 11 wherein the mobile inventory trays receive items of inventory from the one or more check-in stations. 22. The system of claim 11 wherein the check-in stations transmit data to the mobile inventory trays using an RF transmitter. 23. The system of claim 11 wherein the factory comprises multiple vertical floor levels, the mobile inventory trays free to move about on all of the vertical levels. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein the mobile inventory trays access the vertical floor levels through enclosure openings coupled to ramps between the vertical levels. 25. The system of claim 11 wherein the mobile inventory trays are battery powered. 26. The system of claim 11 wherein the mobile inventory trays use drive wheels to move themselves in any direction on the factory floor. 27. The system of claim 11 wherein the MHS interfaces with a warehouse management system (WMS) through a network connection. 28. A mobile device for performing pick-and-pack operations in a warehouse, comprising: a microprocessor; a guidance system coupled to the microprocessor and used by the mobile device to navigate a warehouse floor; a transceiver coupled to the mobile device, the transceiver used by the mobile device to respond to inventory movement requests transmitted to the mobile device by a material handling system (MHS) or by a plurality of other mobile devices; and a mobility mechanism used by the mobile device to propel itself in any direction on the warehouse floor to satisfy the requests to deliver or pick-up the items of inventory, the mobile device determining where it needs to propel itself on the warehouse floor autonomously using the microprocessor. 29. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device is located on a warehouse floor with the plurality of other mobile devices. 30. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device contains a tray to carry items of inventory. 31. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device propels itself to a designated area on the warehouse floor to deliver or receive one or more items of inventory. 32. the mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device contains a global positioning system (GPS) to provide position signals to the microprocessor, the GPS used by the mobile device to navigate the warehouse floor. 33. The mobile device of claim 31 wherein the designated area is a pack station. 34. The mobile device of claim 31 wherein the designated area is a check-in station. 35. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device communicates with the plurality of other mobile devices using the transceiver to determine an optimal set of mobile devices to deliver the items of inventory. 36. The mobile device of claim 35 wherein a pack station tracks order requests that have been filled by the optimal set of mobile devices. 37. The mobile device of claim 36 wherein the tracking information is transmitted to the optimal set of mobile devices using a communication link between the pack station and the optimal set of mobile devices. 38. The mobile device of claim 37 wherein the optimal set of mobile devices move back to the warehouse floor once the tracking information indicates the pack operation is complete. 39. The mobile device of claim 37 wherein the communications link is a wireless RF link. 40. The mobile device of claim 34 wherein the mobile device receives items of inventory at the check-in station. 41. The mobile device of claim 40 wherein the check-in station transmits data to the mobile device using the RF transceiver. 42. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device is operable to autonomously determine a rest location on the warehouse floor after satisfying a request and wherein the mobile device is operable to navigate to the rest location under its own direction. 43. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device is battery powered. 44. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the mobile device uses drive wheels to move in any direction on the warehouse floor. 45. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the MHS is coupled to a warehouse management system by a network. 46. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the MHS transmits requests to one or more pack stations. 47. The mobile device of claim 28 wherein the MHS transmits requests to one or more check-in stations. 48. A method for managing items of inventory comprising: providing a plurality of microprocessor-based mobile inventory trays configured to move within a warehouse; transmitting an order request to the mobile inventory trays; selecting, by the mobile inventory trays, one or more optimum mobile inventory trays to satisfy the order request; and moving, by the one or more optimum mobile inventory trays, to a designated pack station to fill the order request. 49. The method of claim 48 further comprising providing a communication system coupled to provide commands to the microprocessor of each of the mobile inventory trays. 50. The method of claim 49 wherein the communication system is a radio frequency (RF) transceiver. 51. The method of claim 48 wherein the selecting is made by communication between the mobile inventory trays using the RF transceiver. 52. The method of claim 48 further comprising providing a guidance system coupled to the microprocessor on each of the mobile inventory trays for the mobile inventory trays to determine their three-dimensional position coordinates within a facility. 53. The method of claim 52 wherein the guidance system is a global positioning system (GPS). 54. The method of claim 52 wherein the plurality of mobile inventory trays each uses the guidance system to clear paths on a warehouse floor with peer mobile inventory trays or to queue with other mobile inventory trays. 55. The method of claim 48 wherein the optimum mobile inventory trays are instructed by their microprocessor to move to the designated pack station. 56. The method of claim 48 wherein a material handling system (MHS) transmits the order request to the designated pack station, the designated pack station transmitting the order request to one or more mobile inventory trays using a communication system. 57. The method of claim 48 further comprising processing one or more order requests simultaneously. 58. The method of claim 48 further comprising tracking order requests that have been filled by the optimum mobile inventory trays; and transmitting the tracking information to the optimum mobile inventory trays using a communication link between the designated pack station and the optimum mobile inventory trays. 59. The method of claim 58 wherein the optimum mobile inventory trays move back to the warehouse floor once the tracking information indicates the operation is complete. 60. The method of claim 58 wherein the tracking of order requests is implemented using barcodes on items of inventory and a barcode scanner coupled to the pack station computer. 61. The method of claim 48 further comprising providing one or more check-in stations, the one or more of the mobile inventory trays moving to the one or more check-in stations when they are depleted or in response to a request to pick up items of inventory transmitted to the mobile inventory trays. 62. The method of claim 61 wherein the check-in stations transmit the request using an RF transmitter. 63. The method of claim 61 wherein the one or more mobile inventory trays move to the check-in stations to pick-up the items of inventory. 64. The method of claim 48 further comprising providing multiple vertical floor levels in the warehouse, the mobile inventory trays free to move about on all of the vertical floor levels. 65. The method of claim 64 wherein the mobile inventory trays access the vertical floor levels through enclosure openings coupled to ramps between the vertical levels. 66. The method of claim 48 wherein the mobile inventory trays are battery powered. 67. The method of claim 48 wherein the mobile inventory trays use drive wheels to move themselves in any direction on the surface area. 68. The method of claim 48 further comprising providing a material handling system (MHS) to transmit the order requests to the mobile inventory trays. 69. The method of claim 68 wherein the MHS is coupled to a warehouse management system (WHS) by a network. 70. The method of claim 48 further comprising processing one or more order requests in real-time. 71. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of mobile inventory trays is operable to store inventory items. 72. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of mobile inventory trays is operable to transport a storage apparatus, the storage apparatus operable to store inventory items. 73. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of mobile inventory trays is operable to store inventory items. 74. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of mobile inventory trays is operable to transport a storage apparatus, the storage apparatus operable to store inventory items. 75. The method of claim 48, wherein each of the plurality of mobile inventory trays is operable to store inventory items. 76. The method of claim 48, wherein each of the plurality of mobile inventory trays is operable to transport a storage apparatus, the storage apparatus operable to store inventory items. 