Methods and apparatus for controllably dispensing photoresist solutions and other fluids in semiconductor manufacturing equipment from an array of syringe-based fluid dispensers. A multi-syringe fluid dispensing system is provided for photoresist coating within a wafer track coating module. The coating module may contain a spin chuck that is positioned within a catch cup. A robotic dispense arm and gripper assembly may be positioned within the coating module for gripping and positioning a fluid syringe. An array of syringes may be stored on a solution tray within the wafer track coating module for holding a plurality of fluid syringes containing photoresist solutions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-syringe fluid dispensing system for semiconductor substrate processing comprising: a wafer track coating module containing a spin chuck that is positioned within a catch cup; a solution tray located within the wafer track coating module for holding a plurality of fluid syringes containing semiconductor substrate processing solutions; and a dispense arm and gripper assembly for gripping and positioning a fluid syringe within the wafer track coating module, the gripper including a plunger holder and a syringe body holder for engaging a selected syringe from the solution tray. 2. The multi-syringe fluid dispensing system as recited in claim 1, wherein the selected syringe from the solution tray includes complementary portions that removably engage the plunger holder and the syringe body holder. 3. An apparatus for dispensing a plurality of semiconductor substrate processing solutions comprising: an array of fluid dispensers mounted on a tray within a processing module, wherein each fluid dispenser includes a nozzle portion formed at a relatively distal region of the fluid dispenser, a fluid line running along a length of the fluid dispenser leading to the nozzle portion, and a thermal jacket surrounding each fluid line for circulating a heat transfer medium and individually controlling the temperature of fluid within each fluid line; a dispense arm for supporting a mounted gripper that is configured to grip a selected nozzle portion of a selected fluid dispenser, and wherein the dispense arm can direct the selected nozzle portion to a predetermined location within the processing module; a fluid syringe pump assembly fluidly connected to a photoresist solution source and the fluid line of the selected fluid dispenser; and a controller for controlling the fluid syringe pump assembly and the dispense of fluid from the photoresist solution source through the selected nozzle portion of the selected fluid dispenser. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the tray is slidably connected to the processing module. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a semiconductor substrate support. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the dispense arm further comprises a vertical actuator to move the gripper vertically towards and away from the semiconductor substrate support. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the dispense arm has a relatively larger curved side upper portion opposite a relatively smaller curved side lower portion. 