In one embodiment of the present invention, a shape memory alloy ("SMA")-actuated flow controller comprises a number of grille members, each having a long axis and being slideable relative to one another parallel to that long axis. The SMA-actuated flow controller also includes a frame configured to guide the number of grille members, and an actuator disposed within the frame to move at least one of the number of grille members for varying a size of an aperture. Further, the actuator includes an SMA actuator that includes a number of SMA elements each connecting one grille number to another.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A shape memory alloy-actuated flow controller, comprising: a rotatable flap having a shaft along an axis about which said rotatable flap rotates; and an actuator disposed within said shaft and configured to generate a force causing said rotatable flap to rotate, said actuator comprising a shape memory alloy ("SMA") actuator including a number of SMA elements. 2. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 1, further comprising a duct housing configured to support said rotatable flap, said duct housing adaptable for disposition in a duct of a ventilation system. 3. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 1, wherein each of said number of SMA elements contact a corresponding point at which to generate a rotating force in a first direction of rotation when said number of SMA elements are actuated. 4. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 3, wherein said corresponding point is positioned on a lever-type structure affixed to said shaft. 5. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 1, further comprising a restoring mechanism configured to restore said rotatable flap to a certain position when none of said number of SMA elements are actuated. 6. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 5, wherein said restoring mechanism is a spring configured to store energy for restoring said rotatable flap to said certain position. 7. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 5, wherein said restoring mechanism is another SMA actuator including another number of SMA elements, said another SMA actuator disposed within said shaft and configured in an antagonistic arrangement with said SMA actuator, said another number of SMA elements providing temperature compensation for said number of SMA elements. 8. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 7, wherein each of said another number of SMA elements contact a corresponding point at which to generate an amount of rotating force in a second direction of rotation when said another number of SMA elements are actuated. 9. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 1, wherein said shaft has an end including an interface configured to receive a translator interface. 10. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 9, further comprising a drive member including said translator interface; and a restoring spring coupled to said drive member. 11. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 10, wherein said interface and said translator interface are helically-shaped and configured to convert an axial force generated by said drive member translating along said axis into a rotational force applied to said shaft, said axial force caused by the contraction of at least one SMA element. 12. A shape memory alloy-actuated aperture controller, comprising: a rotatable member having a shaft along an axis about which said rotatable member rotates, said rotatable member configured to vary a size of an aperture; and an actuator disposed within said shaft and configured to generate a force causing said rotatable member to rotate, said actuator comprising a shape memory alloy ("SMA") actuator including a number of SMA elements. 13. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 12, further comprising a housing configured to support said rotatable member, said housing adaptable for disposition in series with a passage. 14. The SMA-actuated flow controller of claim 12, wherein each of said number of SMA elements contact a corresponding point at which to generate an amount of rotating force in a first direction of rotation when said number of SMA elements are actuated. 