A method and system for accessing media objects in an automated storage library using a robotic mechanism included mounting the robotic mechanism to a horizontally arranged track arranged in the same plane as first and second horizontal rows of media object storage cells. Each of the media object storage cells houses a media object. The horizontally arranged track is disposed adjacent to the first row of media object storage cells. The robotic mechanism is mounted to the track for moving horizontally along the track. A media object manipulation mechanism such as a gripper mechanism is coupled to the robotic mechanism. The media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable for moving between the first and second rows of media object storage cells when the robotic mechanism is coupled to the track to manipulate the media objects housed within the first and second rows of media object storage cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library for the storage and retrieval of media objects, the storage library comprising: a frame; first and second horizontally arranged rows of media object storage cells arranged within the frame in a common plane, each of the media object storage cells for housing a media object; a horizontally arranged track attached to the frame and arranged in the common plane, the track being disposed adjacent to the first row of media object storage cells; a robotic mechanism coupled to the track for moving horizontally along the track; and a media object manipulation mechanism coupled to the robotic mechanism, wherein the media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable for moving between the first and second rows of media object storage cells when the robotic mechanism is coupled to the track in order to manipulate the media objects housed within the first and second rows of media object storage cells. 2. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the media object manipulation mechanism is a gripper mechanism. 3. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable to move from the first row of media object storage cells to the second row of media object storage cells. 4. The storage library of claim 3 wherein: the media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable to move from the second row of media object storage cells back to the first row of media object storage cells. 5. The storage library of claim 1 further comprising: a third horizontally arranged row of media object storage cells arranged within the frame in the common plane, wherein the media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable for moving between the first, second, and third rows of media object storage cells in order to manipulate the media objects housed within the first, second, and third rows of media object storage cells. 6. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the track is disposed between the first and second rows of media object storage cells. 7. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the second row of media object storage cells is below the first row of media object storage cells and the track is disposed above the first row of media object storage cells. 8. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the media objects include media cartridges. 9. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the media objects include media players. 10. The storage library of claim 1 further comprising: third and fourth horizontally arranged rows of media object storage cells arranged within the frame in the common plane, each of the media object storage cells for housing a media object; a second horizontally arranged track attached to the frame and arranged in the common plane, the second track being disposed between the second and third rows of media object storage cells; and a second robotic mechanism coupled to the second track for moving horizontally along the second track; and a second media object manipulation mechanism coupled to the second robotic mechanism, wherein the second media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable for moving between the third and fourth rows of media object storage cells when the second robotic mechanism is coupled to the second track in order to manipulate the media objects housed within the third and fourth rows of media object storage cells. 11. The storage library of claim 10 wherein: the second media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable for moving between the second and third rows of media object storage cells when the second robotic mechanism is coupled to the second track to manipulate the media objects housed within the second and third rows of media object storage cells. 12. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the media object manipulation mechanism directly moves vertically between the first and second rows of media object storage cells. 13. The storage library of claim 1 wherein: the media object manipulation mechanism rotates to move vertically between the first and second rows of media object storage cells. 14. A storage library for the storage and retrieval of media objects, the storage library comprising: a frame; first, second, and third horizontally arranged parallel rows of media object storage cells arranged within the frame in a common plane, the second row of media object storage cells disposed between the first and third rows of media object storage cells, each of the media object storage cells for housing a media object; a first track attached to the frame and arranged in the common plane, the first track being disposed adjacent to the first row of media object storage cells; a second track attached to the frame and arranged in the common plane, the second track being disposed between the first and second rows of media object storage cells; a first robotic mechanism coupled to the first track for moving horizontally along the first track, the first robotic mechanism having a first media object manipulation mechanism vertically movable for moving between the first and second rows of media object storage cells in order to manipulate the media objects housed within the first and second rows of media object storage cells; and a second robotic mechanism coupled to the second track for moving horizontally along the second track, the second robotic mechanism having a second media object manipulation mechanism vertically movable for moving between the second and third rows of media object storage cells in order to manipulate the media objects housed within the second and third rows of media object storage cells. 15. A robotic mechanism for an automated storage library having first and second rows of media object storage cells arranged within a frame in a common plane, the robotic mechanism comprising: a media object manipulation mechanism; and a carriage for coupling to a track attached to the frame, arranged in the common plane and disposed between the first and second rows of media object storage cells to move the media object manipulation mechanism along the track, wherein the media object manipulation mechanism is vertically movable in order to manipulate media objects housed above and below the track in the first and second rows of media object storage cells of the automated storage library. 16. The storage library of claim 15 further comprising: a carousel associated with the media object manipulation mechanism for rotating the gripper mechanism to be vertically movable. 17. A method of operating a storage library having first and second horizontally arranged rows of media object storage cells arranged within a frame in a common plane, each of the media object storage cells for housing a media object, and a horizontally arranged track attached to the frame, arranged in the common plane, and disposed adjacent to the first row of media object storage cells, the method comprising: coupling a robotic mechanism to the track such that the robotic mechanism is attached to the frame by the track for horizontal movement along the track; and vertically moving a media object manipulation mechanism coupled to the robotic mechanism between the first and second rows of media object storage cells when the robotic mechanism is coupled to the track; and manipulating the media objects housed within the first and second rows of media object storage cells with the media object manipulation mechanism after the media object manipulation mechanism has been vertically moved. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein: vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism includes vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism from the first row of media object storage cells to the second row of media object storage cells. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein: vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism includes vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism from the second row of media object storage cells back to the first row of media object storage cells. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the storage library includes a third horizontally arranged row of media object storage cells arranged within the frame in the common plane, wherein: vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism includes vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism between the first, second, and third rows of media object storage cells in order to manipulate the media objects housed within the first, second, and third rows of media object storage cells. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein: vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism includes directly moving the media object manipulation mechanism vertically between the first and second rows of media object storage cells. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein: vertically moving the media object manipulation mechanism includes rotating the media object manipulation mechanism to move vertically between the first and second rows of media object storage cells. 