A medical system that allows a mentor to teach a pupil how to use a robotically controlled medical instrument. The system may include a first handle that can be controlled by a mentor to move the medical instrument. The system may further have a second handle that can be moved by a pupil to control the same instrument. Deviations between movement of the handles by the mentor and the pupil can be provided as force feedback to the pupil and mentor handles. The force feedback pushes the pupil's hand to correspond with the mentor's handle movement. The force feedback will also push the mentor's hand to provide information to the mentor on pupil's movements. The mentor is thus able to guide the pupil's hands through force feedback of the pupil handles to teach the pupil how to use the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system, comprising: a first medical device; a first input device that can be moved a first input distance to move said first medical device; a second input device that can be moved a second input distance to move said first medical device, wherein the second input distance is greater than the first input distance by an amount; and, a feedback device that provides a greater force feedback to the first input device than to the second input device, the greater force feedback indicating the amount of difference between the first and second input distances. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first input device includes a first handle and said second input device includes a second handle. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a communication interface that couples said first and second input devices to said first medical device. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm coupled to a medical instrument. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said first input device includes a switch that allows said first input device to assume sole control of said first medical device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said feedback device includes a computer. 7. A medical robotic system, comprising: a first medical device; first input means that can be moved a first input distance for moving said first medical device; second input means that can be moved a second input distance for moving said first medical device wherein the second input distance is greater that the first input distance by an amount; and, feedback means for providing a greater force feedback to the first input device than to the second input device, the greater force feedback indicating the amount of difference between the first and second input distances. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said first input means includes a handle and said second input means includes a handle. 9. The system of claim 7, further comprising a communication means for remotely coupling said first and second input devices to said first medical device. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm coupled to a medical instrument. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein said first input means includes a switch that allows said first input means to assume sole control of said first medical device. 12. The system of claim 7, further comprising arbitrator means for arbitrating control of said first medical device between said first input means and said second input means. 13. A method for controlling a first medical device, comprising: moving a first input device a first input distance to move a first medical device; moving a second input device a second input distance to move the first medical device, wherein the second input distance is greater than the first input distance by an amount; and, generating a greater force feedback to the first input device than to the second input device, the greater force feedback indicating the amount of difference between the first and second input distances. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising transmitting force feedback data from the first medical device to the second input device through a communication port. 15. A medical robotic system, comprising: a first medical device; a first input device that can be moved a first input distance to move said first medical device; a second input device that can be moved a second input distance to move said first medical device; and, a feedback device that provides a visual feedback indicating a difference between the first and second input distances. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a communication interface that couples said first and second input devices to said first medical device. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm coupled to a medical instrument. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein said first input device includes a switch that allows said first input device to assume sole control of said first medical device. 19. A medical robotic system, comprising: a first medical device; first input means that can be moved a first input distance for moving said first medical device; second input means that can be moved a second input distance for moving said first medical device; and, feedback means for providing a visual feedback indicating a difference between the first and second input distances. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a communication means for remotely coupling said first and second input devices to said first medical device. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm coupled to a medical instrument. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein said first input means includes a switch that allows said first input means to assume sole control of said first medical device. 23. The system of claim 19, further comprising arbitrator means for arbitrating control of said first medical device between said first input means and said second input means. 