A mold spraying system for emitting one or more sprayable materials onto portions of a mold, such as a die-cast mold, while the mold is located in a molding machine. The spraying system has an emitter, such as a spray head, for directing the one or more materials onto portions of each half of the mold when the mold is in an opened position between molding cycles of the molding machine. The spray head is connected to a manipulator for positioning the spray head between the mold halves. A pressure boosting unit is employed to ensure that the sprayable materials are supplied to the spray head at a sufficient pressure, notwithstanding any system pressure losses and/or the high frequency of spraying operations required to be performed as a result of a short molding machine cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spraying system for applying one or more materials to an open mold while said mold resides within a molding machine, said spraying system comprising: a spray head for directing said one or more materials onto portions of said mold; a manipulator connected to said spray head, and adapted to position said spray head between halves of said open mold between molding cycles of said molding machine; a supply of said one or more materials in communication with a first pressure source; a conduit connecting said supply of one or more materials to said spray head; a pressure boosting device positioned along said conduit between each supply of said one or more materials and said spray head, said pressure boosting device in communication with a second pressure source and adapted to increase the pressure of the material passing through said conduit; and a control device in electronic communication with said manipulator and each pressure boosting device for controlling the operation thereof. 2. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein said mold is a die-cast mold. 3. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein said materials are selected from the group consisting of an anti-solder material and a die-lubricant. 4. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein said pressure boosting device increases the pressure of said one or more materials by passing each material through a separate chamber, wherein said material is acted upon by a force-exerting cylinder. 5. The spraying system of claim 4, further comprising a speed control device for controlling the speed of the force-exerting cylinder. 6. The spraying system of claim 4, further comprising an electronic solenoid valve connected to each force-exerting cylinder and in electronic communication with said control device, said solenoid valve for controlling the movement of the corresponding force-exerting cylinder in response to a signal from said control device. 7. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein the operation of said pressure boosting device and said spray head is sequenced such that a pressurized supply of said one or more materials from said pressure boosting device is always available when needed for emission by said spray head. 8. The spraying system of claim 1, further comprising a solenoid valve in electronic communication with said control device and located between each source of said one or more materials and said spray head, each solenoid valve for controlling the emission of a respective material from said spray head. 9. The spraying system of claim 1, further comprising an apparatus for providing linear movement of said manipulator substantially along the longitudinal axis of said molding machine. 10. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein said control device is in electronic communication with said molding machine, such that said control device controls the operation of said pressure boosting device and the spraying of said one or more materials onto portions of said mold by said spray head to coincide with a particular segment of the molding machine cycle. 11. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein said control device is a programmable logic controller. 12. The spraying system of claim 1, wherein said pressure boosting device supplies said one or more materials to said spray head at a substantially constant pressure. 13. A pressure boosting apparatus for use in a mold spraying system, said pressure boosting apparatus comprising: a chamber adapted to allow for passage therethrough of a sprayable material from a pressurized material source, said chamber located between said pressurized material source and an emitter of said material; a force-exerting cylinder coupled to said chamber and in communication with a separate pressure source, said force exerting cylinder for exerting a force on said material passing therethrough; a conduit connecting said pressurized material source to said emitter, said conduit conveying said sprayable material through said chamber on its way to said emitter; and a controller for sequencing the operation of said force-exerting cylinders; wherein said force exerting cylinder increases the pressure of said sprayable material passing through said chamber as necessary to ensure that a sufficient amount of said sprayable material at substantially some predetermined pressure is supplied to said emitter for application to said mold. 14. The pressure boosting apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a speed control device for regulating the speed of said force-exerting cylinder. 15. The pressure boosting apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a solenoid valve for controlling the operation of said force-exerting cylinder. 16. The pressure boosting apparatus of claim 15, wherein said solenoid valve is controlled by said control device. 17. The pressure boosting apparatus of claim 13, further comprising at least one check valve for preventing the transport of pressurized material from said chamber toward said material source. 18. The pressure boosting apparatus of claim 13, wherein said sprayable material is supplied to said emitter from said chamber at a substantially constant pressure. 