A patient-specific alignment guide for an orthopedic implant. The alignment guide can include a body having first and second opposing surfaces, the second surface adapted for positioning over a skin surface, and at least one extension extending from the second surface body. The extension has a distal end defining a patient-specific end surface that is mateable in form-fitting manner with a subcutaneous portion of the patient's anatomy, and at least one guiding passage extending between the first surface of the body and the distal end of the extension.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for multiple incision orthopedic surgery comprising: making a plurality of incisions through the skin of the patient to a plurality of corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portions; supporting an undersurface of a body of an alignment guide on an outer skin surface of the patient, the alignment guide having a plurality of extensions extending from the undersurface of the alignment guide, wherein at least one extension has a patient-specific distal end surface preoperatively configured from a three-dimensional image of the patient's anatomy to nestingly mate and conform in form-fitting manner with a corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portion; percutaneously passing each extension through the corresponding incision; contacting the patient-specific distal end surface of the at least one extension to the corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portion; inserting a tool through a guiding passage extending from the body and along the at least one extension to the distal end surface of the at least one extension; and preparing the corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portion for the surgical procedure using the tool. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing the corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portion for the surgical procedure comprises drilling a hole through the subcutaneous anatomic portion. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the subcutaneous anatomic portions are vertebral portions. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the subcutaneous anatomic portions are portions of a long bone. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein mating the end surface of the at least one extension to the corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portion, includes telescopically moving the at least one extension to the subcutaneous anatomic portion. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein mating the patient-specific distal end surface of the at least one extension to the corresponding subcutaneous anatomic portion includes pivoting the at least one extension toward the subcutaneous anatomic portion. 