A hemming machine having a nest adapted to support a part to be hemmed. A hold down is movable between a retracted position in which the hold down is spaced from the part and an extended position in which the part is sandwiched between the hold down and the nest and a guide surface is formed around the periphery of the hold down. A hemming head having a roller hemmer assembly and mounted to and manipulated by a robotic arm. The roller assembly includes a first roller which engages the guide surface during a roller prehemming operation of the part performed by the robotic arm and a second roller which prehems the part.
Claims We claim: 1. A hemming machine comprising: a nest adapted to accurately locate and support a part to be hemmed, a hold down movable between a retracted position in which said hold down is spaced from said part and an extended position in which the part is sandwiched between said hold down and said nest, wherein said hold down includes at least one guide surface formed about the periphery of said hold down, a robotic arm, a roller hemming head mounted to said robotic arm, a roller hemmer assembly mounted to said hemming head, wherein said roller hemmer assembly includes a first roller which engages said guide surface during a roller hemming operation of the part. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said roller hemmer assembly comprises a second roller which engages the part and forms a hem as said first roller engages and travels along said guide surface. 3. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein said first and second rollers are coaxially rotatably mounted to said hemming head. 4. The invention as defined in claim 2 wherein said robotic arm manipulates one of said rollers following prehemming operation so that said one roller engages the part to perform a final hem on said part. 5. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said hemming head comprises a base attached to said robotic arm, a piston shaft slidably mounted to said base and said hemming head being mounted to said piston. 6. The invention as defined in claim 5, and comprising a rolling sleeve type inflatable bladder disposed between said piston and said base and forming a chamber around a portion of said piston, and a pressurized fluid source fluidly connected to said chamber. 7. A roller hemming head for use with a robot comprising: a base adapted for attachment to the robot, a guide assembly mounted to said base, an elongated piston shaft axially slidably mounted to said assembly, said piston shaft being movable between an extended and a retracted position, at least one hemming roller attached to a free end of said piston shaft, a flexible sleeve connected between said base and said shaft and forming a pressurizable chamber encompassing said guide assembly, a source of fluid pressure fluidly connected to said pressurizable chamber. 8. The invention as defined in claim 7 and comprising a position transducer attached to said base, said position transducer providing an output signal representative of the position of the piston shaft relative to said guide assembly. 9. The invention as defined in claim 7 and comprising a disc attached to an end of said shaft contained within said chamber, said disc limiting the extent of retraction arid extension of said piston shaft relative to said guide assembly. 10. The invention as defined in claim 9 and comprising a shock absorber attached to said disc. 11. The invention as defined in claim 7 and comprising means to prevent rotation of said piston shaft relative to said guide assembly. 12. The invention as defined in claim 11 wherein said rotation preventing means comprises at least one longitudinally extending and outwardly protruding wing on said piston shaft, a longitudinal channel formed in said guide assembly on each side of said wing, and roller bearings disposed in said longitudinally extending channels so that said roller bearings abut against both said wing and said guide assembly to thereby lock said piston shaft against rotation relative to said guide assembly. 13. The invention as defined in claim 12 wherein said at least one wing comprises at least three wings. 14. The invention as defined in claim 13 wherein said wings are equidistantly spaced from each other. 