A surface clinging robotic device. The device includes a supporting structure or base, on which is mounted (a) a lead pivoting support surface, such as a pivoting wheel, and (b) two or more traction drives, such as drive wheels. Each of the traction drives are independently driven by a separate drive motor. A plurality of vacuum cups are mounted on the bottom of the base. The vacuum cups each have a low friction foot designed for movement over a surface with minimal friction while vacuum is maintained. The low friction foot portion is provided by a generally surface direction oriented C-shaped Teflon skin. The robotic device can move over gaps or obstructions in the surface without losing vacuum in all of the vacuum cups, using a fluid limiting valve at each vacuum cup to interrupt flow in the event of loss of vacuum in that vacuum cup.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for non-destructive inspection of an aircraft having an outer surface, comprising the steps of (a) providing a robot comprising: (1) a base, said base having a bottom side and an upper side; (2) a plurality of vacuum cups, each of said vacuum cups comprising: (i) a foot, said foot having a low friction wear surface coating, (ii) a sidewall comprising one or more resilient accordion pleats (34), (iii) an outlet port, said outlet port having an inlet portion, (iv) a fluid limiting valve, said fluid limiting valve located in fluid communication with and adapted to at least partially close said outlet port when said vacuum cup experiences loss of vacuum; (3) at least three points of support for said base, said at least three points of support for said base, spacing said base apart from yet located close to the workpiece surface being traversed, so as to limit compression of said vacuum cups between said bottom side of said base and the surface being traversed, and (i) providing at least two contact points having driving traction relative to said workpiece surface being traversed, (ii) providing at least one pivotable contact point adapted to allow said robotic device to turn along a direction of travel; (b) mounting a surface sensor on said robot; (c) positioning said robot on said outer surface, and positioning said surface sensor in contact with said outer surface of the aircraft; (d) maintaining the interior of the aircraft at a first pressure; (e) moving said robot in a selected path of travel over said outer surface with said sensor riding on said robot; (f) tracking the movement of said robot and thus said surface sensor, to provide a first measurement of the spatial coordinates of said surface sensor; (g) pressurizing the interior of the aircraft to a pressure greater than said first pressure; (h) repeating the steps of moving the robot and tracking the movement of said surface sensor to provide a second measurement of the spatial coordinates of the sensor; (i) and comparing the first measurement with the second measurement to determine whether the spatial coordinates at any selected location on said aircraft outer surface are outside of a given tolerance. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of mounting the sensor comprises mounting the sensor for movement with the robot in a direction normal to the direction of travel of the robot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said first pressure is atmospheric pressure and wherein said second pressure is above atmospheric pressure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of tracking the sensor comprises mounting a retro reflector on the sensor, directing an incident laser beam from a laser tracking unit toward the retro reflector, reflecting the beam from the retro reflector back toward the laser tracking unit, and comparing the incident beam with the reflected beam to provide a measurement of the spatial coordinates. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of biasing said sensor into contact with said outer surface. 6. A surface clinging robotic device for clinging to a workpiece surface, said device comprising: (a) a base, said base having a bottom side and an upper side; (b) an outlet port, said outlet port having an inlet portion (1) a low friction foot, (2) a sidewall comprising one or more resilient accordion pleats (34), (3) an outlet port, said outlet port having an inlet portion (4) a fluid limiting valve, said fluid limiting valve located in fluid communication with and adapted to at least partially close said outlet port (c) three effective points of support between said base and workpiece surface, said three effective points of support including (1) a first truck mount pivotably affixed to said base, said first truck mount comprising a pair of wheels rotatably affixed to said first truck mount, (2) a second truck mount pivotably affixed to said base, said second truck mount comprising a second pair of wheels rotatably affixed to said second truck mount, and (3) a pivotable wheel affixed to said base, said at least three effective points of support adapted to limit the distance of said base relative to the workpiece surface being traversed, so as to limit compression of said vacuum cups between said bottom side of said base and the workpiece surface being traversed. 7. The device as set forth in claim 6, further comprising a first drive motor and a second drive motor, said first drive motor affixed to said first truck and operably connected for driving said first pair of wheels, and a second drive motor affixed to said second truck and operably connected for driving said second pair of wheels, each wheel in said first pair and said second pair of wheels including contact points having driving traction relative to said workpiece surface being traversed. 8. The device of claim 7, further comprising a locator for pinpointing the location of said robotic device on said workpiece, so that said location can be tracked, or monitored, or recorded. 9. The device as set forth in claim 8, wherein said locator is interconnected to said robotic device motors by a drive control system to selectively articulate said robotic device using said drive motors, to selectively move said robotic device along said workpiece surface. 10. The device as set forth in claim 7, wherein each of said drive motors are operable independently of one another, whereby each of said traction surfaces are independently driveable. 11. The device as set forth in claim 7, further comprising an outlet for spraying paint or other chemicals on said surface while moving said device on said surface. 12. The device as set forth in claim 7, wherein vacuum acting on through said vacuum cups causes said device to adhere to said workpiece surface, by suction; and wherein said sliding foot of each on of said plurality of vacuum cups allows said device to be driven along said workpiece at a distance determined by said traction feet by a relatively small normal force. 13. The device as set forth in claim 6, further comprising an ultrasonic sensing system attached to said base for ultrasonically analyzing the integrity of the workpiece on which said apparatus is driven. 14. The device as set forth in claim 6, further comprising a video camera system attached to said base. 15. The device as set forth in claim 6, further comprising an umbilical tether attached to said robotic device, said umbilical tether supplying electrical power and a vacuum source to said robotic device from a remote location. 