Detecting an object using sound waves includes outputting a sound wave from a transducer, receiving an echo after outputting the sound wave, obtaining a threshold value based on the echo and plural other echoes that are within a predetermined range of the echo, and determining if the echo is a result of the sound wave based on the threshold value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot control system, the system comprising: a generator configured to generate multiple, sequential emissions; a transducer in communication with the generator configured to transmit emissions of the generator and to receive reflections of transmitted emissions; a conditioner in communication with the transducer to condition received reflections; and a processor in communication with the conditioner configured to: obtain a threshold value based on a latest one of the reflections and previously received ones of the reflections determined to fall within a predetermined range of the latest reflection, determine if the latest reflection is a result of a latest one of the outputted emissions based on the threshold value, and control the mobile robot based on the determination of whether the latest reflection is a result of the latest outputted emission. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a reflector coupled to the transducer to direct transmitted emissions away from the transducer and to direct reflections toward the transducer. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the reflector comprises a reflective surface facing the transducer. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the reflective surface is contoured such that the transmitted emissions are directed away from the transducer in a limited reflection field. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the reflective surface is shaped and positioned such that the transducer is responsive to reflections at a .+-.5 degree angle from a center-line of the reflective surface. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein the reflective surface comprises an acoustic mirror. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the reflector is configured to direct transmitted emissions away from the transducer in a selected reflection field. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the reflector is positioned at an angle with respect to the transducer. 9. The system of claim 7, further comprising a cone-shaped housing in which the reflector is disposed. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the reflector is movable with respect to the transducer. 11. The system of claim 7, further comprising a controller for controlling the position of the reflector. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioner comprises an amplifier. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioner comprises a filter. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the transducer is rotatable through 360 degrees. 15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller for controlling an angular position of the transducer. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the transducer is an acoustic transducer responsive to electrical signals received from the generator. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the generator and transducer are configured to generate and transmit emissions comprising waveforms. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the generator and transducer are configured to generate and transmit emissions comprising sound waves. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the generator and transducer are configured to generate and transmit emissions comprising laser beams. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the generator is in communication with the processor and configured to produce electrical signals based on output from the processor. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the generator is further configured to provide the electrical signals to the transducer. 22. A method of controlling a mobile robot, the method comprising: outputting multiple, sequential emissions from a scanner; receiving reflections of the outputted emissions with the scanner; obtaining a threshold value based on a latest one of the reflections and previously received ones of the reflections determined to fall within a predetermined range of the latest reflection; determining if the latest reflection is a result of a latest one of the outputted emissions based on the threshold value; and controlling the mobile robot based on the determination of whether the latest reflection is a result of the latest outputted emissions, wherein the scanner comprises: an emission generator; a transducer in communication with the generator to transmit generated emissions and to receive emission reflections; and a conditioner in communication with the transducer and configured to condition received reflections. 23. A method of controlling a mobile robot, the method comprising: receiving plural reflections of corresponding emissions with a scanner; determining a threshold value based on a target reflection and received reflections determined to each result from a corresponding emission; determining if the target reflection is a reflection of a latest emission; and controlling the mobile robot based on the determination of whether the target reflection is a reflection of the latest emission, wherein the scanner comprises: an emission generator; a transducer in communication with the generator to transmit generated emissions and to receive emission reflections; and a conditioner in communication with the transducer and configured to condition received reflections. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising comparing the target reflection to the threshold value, the target reflection comprising one of the plural reflections. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein determining if the target reflection is a reflection of a latest emission is based on the comparison to the threshold value. 