A library of materials is screened for viscosity. A library of materials is provided. The library is contacted with at least one capillary for applying a force through the materials. The relative flow resistance of the materials is measured in response to the force; and the materials in the library are ranked based on the monitored flow resistance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening a library of materials for viscosity, the method comprising: providing a library of materials in a plurality of wells defined on a common substrate; contacting members of said library with at least one capillary for permitting said materials to be passed through a tip portion of said capillary; applying a first force to said materials; monitoring the relative flow resistance of said materials in response to said force, while said materials remain on said substrate and without the need to remove said materials from said substrate; and ranking members of said library of materials based on the monitored flow resistance. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising heating said liquids in said library. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said array of materials includes a plurality liquid phase materials. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said liquid phase materials are in a media selected from solutions, emulsions, dispersions or a mixture thereof. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said materials are polymers. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said library is disposed on a plural well microtiter plate and said measuring is done with each material entirely within its respective well of said microtiter plate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said array includes at least 4 different liquid materials. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said array includes at least 16 different liquid materials. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said library comprises at least eight samples and at least about 50% of the samples included in the library are different from each other. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said library comprises at least 16 samples and at least 75% of said samples included in said library are different from each other. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said library comprises at least 48 samples and at least 90% of said samples included in the library are different from each other. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization. 