A method for gripping objects by means of a robotic gripper mechanism is provided, wherein the gripping mechanism comprises gripping jaws, a wedge actuator between the gripping jaws, wherein the wedge actuator moves the gripping jaws together and apart as it slides backward and forward, and a motor that moves the wedge actuator by means of a connecting leadscrew. The method comprises applying current to the motor so that the motor reaches maximum operating speed before the gripper mechanism comes into contact with any object. When the gripping jaws contact an object, e.g., media cartridge, they collapse over the object, gripping it. The inertia from the rotating mass of the motor increases the force and speed of the gripping action. In another embodiment, a flywheel may be added to the leadscrew to provide additional rotating mass and increase the inertia before contact.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for gripping objects by means of a robotic gripper mechanism, wherein the gripper mechanism comprises gripping jaws, a wedge actuator between the gripping jaws, wherein the wedge actuator moves the gripping jaws together and apart as it slides backward and forward, and a motor that moves the wedge actuator by means of a connecting leadscrew, the method comprising the steps of: applying current to the motor, wherein the motor begins rotating before the gripper mechanism makes contact with an object; and in response to contacting an object, gripping the object with the gripper jaws, wherein inertia from the rotating mass of the motor and leadscrew increases the force and speed of the gripping action, wherein the robotic gripper mechanism further comprises a nut connecting the leadscrew and wedge, and wherein the nut applies pressure to the wedge. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the robotic gripper mechanism further comprises a spring between the nut and wedge, wherein the spring provides an incremental force to contact between the gripper jaws and gripped objects. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the robotic gripper mechanism further comprises a flywheel that rotates with the leadscrew, wherein the flywheel provides additional rotating mass and inertia to the mechanism. 