Embodiments of the invention are ideally suited for use filming movies, sporting events, or any other activity that requires fluid movement of a camera or other object to any position within a defined volume of space. To accomplish such positioning embodiments of the invention are configured to move an object throughout three-dimensional space by relocating one or more lines that are feed through a plurality of opposing sides of the object. These line(s) (e.g., a cable, rope, string, cord, wire, or any other flexible connective element) which support the object over a volume of space are arranged in way that allows the object to be rapidly moved to and from any location within the defined volume of space. For instance, the system may be arranged to perform dimensional movement using one line configured as an endless loop, one line configured as a half loop, two lines configured as
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for facilitating three-dimensional movement of a suspended object comprising: an object having a set of associated line support elements; an X line coupled to a plurality of sides of said object and configured to move via said set of associated line support elements; an X junction configured to relocate said X line to effectuate X movement of said object; a Y line coupled to a plurality of sides of said object and configured to move via said set of associated line support elements; a Y junction configured to relocate said Y line to effectuate Y movement of said object; and, a Z movement device configured to displace said X line and said Y line to effectuate Z movement of said object. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said X line and said Y line are two line sides of a contiguous line. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said set of line support elements allow said X line and said Y line to pass through said set of line support elements and comprise components which control movement of said X line and said Y line. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising: said X junction comprising an X movement motor having an X movement device coupled with said X line; said Y junction comprising a Y movement motor having a Y movement device coupled with said Y line; and, a Z movement motor coupled with said Z movement device. 5. The system of claim 4 further comprising an electrical generator and electronic drive units coupled to said X movement motor and said Y movement motor and said Z movement motor. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a dynamometer for measuring the tension of said Z movement device. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising an isolator associated with said object. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said isolator comprises passive stabilization. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein said isolator comprises active stabilization. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein said isolator comprises active stabilization in at least one first axis and passive stabilization in at least one second axis. 11. The system of claim 7 where said isolator is configured to support a vertical camera assembly supported at approximately the center of gravity of said vertical camera assembly. 12. The system of claim 7 wherein said isolator is configured to support a camera assembly away from the center of gravity of said camera assembly. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein said object is coupled with a mechanical claw. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein said object is coupled with a hoist or loader. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein said object is coupled with a mining scoop. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein said object further comprises a downward pointing camera for remotely viewing from the position of said object. 17. The system of claim 1 wherein said object comprises at least one person. 18. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least three supports. 19. A method for facilitating three-dimensional movement of a suspended object comprising: relocating an X line associated with a platform with an X junction to effectuate X-movement of said platform; relocating a Y line associated with said platform with a Y junction to effectuate Y-movement of said platform; and, displacing said X line and Y line with a Z movement device to effectuate Z-movement of said platform. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said X line and said Y line are two line sides of a line. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising: isolating an object coupled to said platform from line movement. 22. The method of claim 19 further comprising: stabilizing an object passively coupled to said platform from line movement. 23. The method of claim 19 further comprising: stabilizing an object actively coupled to said platform from line movement. 24. The method of claim 19 further comprising: obtaining pictures from a photographic device coupled to said platform. 25. A system for facilitating three-dimensional movement of a suspended object comprising: means for relocating an X line associated with a platform with an X junction to effectuate X-movement of said platform; means for relocating a Y line associated with said platform with a Y junction to effectuate Y-movement of said platform; and, means for displacing said X line and Y line with a Z movement device to effectuate Z-movement of said platform. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said X line and said Y line are two line sides of a single line. 27. The system of claim 25 further comprising: means for isolating an object coupled to said platform from line movement. 28. The system of claim 25 further comprising: means for stabilizing an object passively coupled to said platform from line movement. 29. The system of claim 25 further comprising: means for stabilizing an object actively coupled to said platform from line movement. 30. The system of claim 25 further comprising: means for obtaining pictures from a photographic device coupled to said platform. 