An autonomous adaptive agent which can learn verbal as well as nonverbal behavior. The primary object of the system is to optimize a primary value function over time through continuously learning how to behave in an environment (which may be physical or electronic). Inputs may include verbal advice or information from sources of varying reliability as well as direct or preprocessed environmental inputs. Desired agent behavior may include motor actions and verbal behavior which may constitute a system output (and which may also function "internally" to guide external actions. A further aspect involves an efficient "training" process by which the agent can be taught to utilize verbal advice and information along with environmental inputs.
Claims I claim: 1. An artificial adaptive agent having a plurality of input nodes for receiving input signals and a plurality of output nodes of generating output signals wherein the output signals are trained responses to the input signals, the agent comprising: a primary value register for storing one or more primary values; means for adjusting the primary values based upon the responses each time the responses change; and sensors coupled to sense the primary values and having sensor outputs coupled to some of the input nodes of the agent. 2. The agent of claim 1 wherein the means for adjusting comprises: means for determining a cost of each response with respect to each primary value; means for determining a benefit of each response with respect to each primary value; and means for decrementing the current primary value by the determined cost and incrementing the current primary value by the determined benefit each time a response is generated by the agent. 3. A method of training an artificial neural network (ANN) comprising the steps of: designating a first output node of the ANN as a actuator output wherein a preselected signal on the actuator output is capable of causing a desired action; designating a second output node of the ANN as a verbal output wherein a preselected series of signals on the verbal output corresponds to a verbal representation of the desired action; supplying prompts to input nodes of the ANN; and training the ANN to produce the preselected series of signals on the verbal output before producing the preselected signal on the actuator output. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising: coupling the verbal output to an input node of the ANN. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the prompts supplied to the input nodes comprise the preselected series of signals corresponding to the verbal representation of the desired action, and the step of training comprises training the ANN to echo the preselected series of signals presented to the input node at the verbal output. 6. An adaptive autonomous agent with verbal learning comprising: an artificial neural network having verbal input nodes for receiving verbal information, verbal output nodes for expressing verbal information, and actuator output nodes for indicating an action wherein the agent responds to verbal information on the verbal input nodes by generating a signal on the actuator output nodes and generating a verbal response on the verbal output nodes such that the verbal response is a symbolic representation of the action indicated by the actuator output nodes. 7. An adaptive autonomous agent comprising: a neural network having a plurality of network inputs; sensors connected to said network inputs; a first network output; actuators connected to said network output; means for sensing a current state of said actuators; at least one verbal network output; training means for establishing sets of connections from the inputs to the network output. 