An apparatus and method for extracting energy from an internal combustion engine includes a chamber having a primary piston and a secondary piston with a combustion portion of the chamber situated adjacently between the primary piston and secondary piston. The secondary piston includes a substantially lesser mass than that of the primary piston. The chamber includes at least one fluid port for supplying fuel to the combustion portion and an out-take port for releasing combustive exhaust. The chamber includes a controller for controlling the combustion therein at selected cycles of the primary piston. The secondary piston is configured to draw a portion of energy from combustion controlled by the controller in the chamber. Such portion of energy is provided with a rapid response to an energy transferring portion interconnected to the secondary piston, which in turn, transfers and/or converts the energy for acting on a load or external application.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An internal combustion (IC) engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure to said chamber, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component situated adjacent said combustion portion of said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber; said rapid response component comprising a secondary piston disposed in said chamber, said secondary piston comprising an energy receiving portion and an energy transferring portion, said energy receiving portion configured to draw said portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber. 2. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said energy transferring portion is configured to transfer said portion of said energy from said combustion to at least one form of energy selected from the group consisting of hydraulic energy, pneumatic energy, electric energy and mechanical energy. 3. The IC engine of claim 1, further comprising a secondary energy conversion system operatively coupled to said energy transferring portion of said secondary piston, said secondary energy conversion system being selected from the group consisting of a hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, an electric generator system and a mechanical system. 4. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a spark ignition source configured to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 5. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a fuel controller for combining a fuel with an oxidizer to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 6. The IC engine of claim 5, wherein said oxidizer is selected from the group consisting of pure oxygen and air. 7. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said controller includes structure for releasing a fuel into compressed oxidizer fluid to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 8. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said chamber is configured to operate in combination with an engine selected from the group consisting of a spark ignition IC engine and a compression ignition IC engine. 9. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component configured to draw said portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston reciprocating to a position at a median between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position. 10. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said chamber houses at least one of said piston and said secondary piston. 11. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said piston is configured to substantially continuously reciprocate in said chamber. 12. The IC engine of claim 11, wherein said controller is configured to initiate said combustion at selected cycles of one or more cycles, wherein said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of said piston substantially continuously reciprocating in said chamber. 13. An internal combustion (IC) engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure to said chamber, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber: a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component situated adjacent said combustion portion of said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber; said rapid response component being configured to provide greater bandwidth than direct bandwidth supplied directly by the piston of said IC engine. 14. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said proximate instant of said combustion being immediately prior to combustion. 15. The IC engine of claim 14, wherein said piston is configured to substantially continuously reciprocate in said chamber. 16. The IC engine of claim 15, wherein said controller is configured to initiate said combustion at selected cycles of one or more cycles, wherein said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of said piston substantially continuously reciprocating in said chamber. 17. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said proximate instant of said combustion being immediately subsequent to combustion. 18. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said rapid response component drawing majority of said portion of said energy from said chamber within 45 degrees of said piston descending from said top dead center position. 19. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said rapid response component drawing at least 90% of said portion of said energy from said chamber within 45 degrees of said piston descending from said top dead center position. 20. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a ton dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said rapid response component being coupled to a load selected from the group consisting of a hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, an electric generator system and a mechanical system. 21. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said rapid response component being configured to convert energy from said combustion to another form of energy selected from the group consisting of hydraulic energy, pneumatic energy, electric energy and mechanical energy. 22. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position; said controller being configured to control activation of said rapid response component. 23. An internal combustion engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure and temperature to said chamber, said piston configured to substantially continuously reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said reciprocating piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber, said controller configured to provide said combustion to said chamber at selected cycles of one or more cycles of said reciprocating piston, wherein said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of said piston substantially continuously reciprocating in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component situated adjacent said combustion portion of said chamber, said rapid response component drawing a portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber controlled by said controller. 24. The IC engine of claim 23, wherein said controller is configured to control a response of said rapid response component. 25. The IC engine of claim 23, wherein said portion of said energy comprises additional energy than that of said energy drawn from said piston. 26. The IC engine of claim 23, wherein said controller is configured to activate said rapid response component. 27. The IC engine of claim 23, wherein said controller controlling said combustion in said chamber at said selected cycles initiates said portion of said energy to be transferred to an additional energy system selected from the group consisting of an hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, an electric generator system and a mechanical system. 28. The IC engine of claim 23, wherein said rapid response component is activated by said combustion at said selected cycles to provide rapid response power controlled by said controller. 29. The IC engine of claim 23, wherein said portion of said energy drawn from said combustion provides rapid response power corresponding to said combustion of said selected cycles, wherein said rapid response power is provided during a combustion cycle of said piston and said rapid response power is rapidly eliminated during a non-combustion cycle. 30. The IC engine of claim 29, wherein said rapid response power is provided to a load selected from at least one of the group consisting of a hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, an electric generator system and a mechanical system, each system of which responds rapidly with respect to said selected cycles of combustion. 31. An internal combustion (IC) engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber continuously between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position with a substantially fixed displacement, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component having a secondary piston in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component situated adjacent said combustion portion of said chamber to draw a portion of said energy from said combustion, said secondary piston configured to displace at variable lengths based at least in part by a load coupled to said secondary piston. 32. The IC engine of claim 31, wherein said piston includes a first mass and said secondary piston includes a second mass, wherein a first effective inertia of said first mass is greater than a second effective inertia of said second mass by a ratio of at least 5:1 at least during said portion of said energy being transferred to said rapid response component. 33. The IC engine of claim 31, wherein said rapid response component draws at least a majority of said portion of said energy from said chamber within 45 degrees of said piston descending from said top dead center position. 34. The IC engine of claim 31, wherein said rapid response component draws at least 90% of said portion of said energy from said chamber within 45 degrees of said piston descending from said top dead center position. 35. The IC engine of claim 31, wherein said piston includes a first mass and said secondary piston includes a second mass, wherein a first effective inertia of said first mass is greater than a second effective inertia of said second mass. 36. The IC engine of claim 31, further comprising a continuous transmission system configured to provide said variable lengths of said secondary piston, variable at least in part as a function of said load. 37. A method for extracting additional energy from an IC engine, the method comprising: providing a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; providing a rapid response component; positioning said rapid response component to be in fluid communication with said chamber and adjacent said combustion portion of said chamber; and controlling said combustion in said chamber with a controller interconnected to said chamber; said controlling comprising controlling said controller to provide said combustion to said chamber at selected cycles of one or more cycles of said piston such that said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of said piston continuously reciprocating in said chamber. 38. The method of claim 37, further comprising configuring said rapid response component to draw a portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston being positioned at a median between said top dead center position and said bottom dead center position. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein said configuring comprises configuring said rapid response component to draw a majority of said portion of said energy from said chamber within 45 degrees of said piston descending from said top dead center position. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein said configuring comprises configuring said rapid response component to draw at least 90% of said portion of said energy from said chamber within 45 degrees of said piston descending from said top dead center position. 