A method of dyeing a fabric is provided. The method includes removing folds from the fabric, spraying a dye on a first side of the fabric, and exposing the fabric to a migration and fixation process prior to the dye drying on the first side so that the dye migrates from the first side to a second side of the fabric and reacts with and affixes to a component of the fabric.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of dyeing a garment made of fabric comprising: disposing the garment on a carrier; moving a spray nozzle with respect to the garment so that a substantially even coat of a dye is applied to a first side of the garment; and steaming and heating the garment after said substantially even coat of said dye is applied to said first side but prior to said dye drying on said first side so that said dye migrates from said first side to a second side and reacts with and affixes to a component of the fabric. 2. The method as in claim 1, further comprising moving said spray nozzle with respect to the garment to only apply said dye to the garment while minimizing over-spray of said dye. 3. The method as in claim 1, further comprising washing the garment while disposed on the carrier to remove to any residual, un-affixed dye from the garment after steaming and heating the garment. 4. The method as in claim 1, wherein steaming and heating the garment ensures substantially uniform distribution of said dye throughout the garment. 5. A method of dyeing a garment comprising: disposing the garment on a carrier; spraying a dye on a first side of the garment to minimize over-spray of said dye; and exposing the garment to a migration and fixation process prior to said dye drying on said first side but after spraying said dye on said first side to provide a substantially uniform distribution of said dye throughout the garment. 6. A method of dyeing a garment comprising: disposing the garment on a carrier; moving a dye applicator and the garment with respect to one another so that a substantially even coat of a dye is applied to a first side of the garment; and steaming and heating the garment after applying said substantially even coat of said dye but before drying said dye so that said dye migrates from said first side to a second side and reacts with and affixes to a component of the garment. 7. The method as in claim 6, wherein said dye applicator comprises a nozzle and robot. 8. The method as in claim 6, wherein said dye has a substantially uniform distribution throughout the garment. 