A work piece transfer apparatus for use with an ion beam implanter for treating a work piece at sub-atmospheric pressure. The work piece transfer apparatus includes an evacuable load lock system in fluid communication with an interior region the implantation chamber interior region. The load lock system includes a support surface for supporting the work piece with an opening aligned with the work piece. The work piece transfer apparatus further includes a work piece support within the implantation chamber having a pedestal supported by a linkage with two degrees of freedom. The linkage moves the pedestal transversely through the load lock support surface opening to pick up the work piece from the support surface prior to treatment. The pedestal holds the work piece in position in the implantation chamber for treatment. The linkage then moves the pedestal transversely through the load lock support surface opening to deposit the work piece on the support surface subsequent to treatment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. For use with an ion implanter having an implantation chamber for treatment of a work piece at sub-atmospheric pressure, a work piece transfer apparatus comprising: a) a load lock system in fluid communication with an interior region of the implantation chamber, the load lock system defining an interior region which can be selectively evacuated for achieving a reduced pressure condition in the interior region, the load lock system having a support surface for supporting the work piece, the load lock support surface including an opening aligned with the work piece when the work piece is disposed on the load lock support surface; and b) a work piece support within the implantation chamber that positions a work piece for treatment within the chamber interior region, the work piece support including a work piece pedestal for picking up the work piece from the support surface of the load lock system prior to treatment, holding the work piece in position during treatment, and depositing the work piece on the support surface of the load lock system subsequent to treatment, the work piece support including a support linkage for moving the work piece pedestal through the opening in the load lock support surface to pick up the work piece from the support surface prior to treatment and deposit the work piece on the support surface subsequent to treatment. 2. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus further includes a robot system for transferring the work piece from a storage area external to the implantation chamber to the load lock system prior to treatment in the implantation chamber and from the load lock system to the storage area subsequent to treatment in the implantation chamber. 3. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 1 comprising a support arm capable of independent movement along two axes. 4. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the load lock system includes a plurality of load locks, each of the plurality of load locks defining an evacutable interior region in fluid communication with the implantation chamber interior region. 5. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 4 wherein the number of load locks is three and the three load locks are disposed in a stacked arrangement. 6. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of the plurality of load locks includes a door adjacent the implantation chamber, which when opened, results in the load lock interior region being in fluid communication with the implantation chamber interior region. 7. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of the plurality of load locks includes a movable tray, each movable tray including a work piece support surface for supporting a work piece, the support surface including a central opening sized to permit the support pedestal to pass through the central opening to pick up the work piece from the tray work piece support surface and deposit the work piece on the support surface. 8. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 7 wherein each movable tray moves along a path of travel between a retracted position where the tray is within its load lock interior region and an extended position where the tray extends into the implantation chamber interior region to facilitate the support pedestal passing through the central opening of the tray work piece support surface when a work piece is to be picked up from the tray work piece support surface or deposited on the tray work piece support surface. 9. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 8 wherein each of the load locks includes an isolation valve system and the tray is a part of the isolation valve system of the load lock, the valve system permitting evacuation of the load lock interior region when the tray is in a retracted position. 10. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 7 wherein for each tray, the tray work piece support surface includes passive work piece grip. 11. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work piece pedestal moves through the opening in the support surface of the load lock in a direction transverse to a plane defined by the load lock support surface. 12. The work piece transfer apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work piece pedestal moves through the opening in the support surface of the load lock in a direction substantially orthogonal to a plane defined by the load lock support surface. 13. A method of treating a work piece positioned in a reduced pressure implantation station with an ion beam, the steps of the method comprising: a) providing a work piece transfer system including: 1) a load lock system in fluid communication with an interior region interior region of the implantation chamber, the load lock system defining an interior region which can be selectively evacuated for achieving a reduced pressure condition in the interior region, the load lock system having a support surface for supporting the work piece, the load lock support surface including an opening aligned with the work piece when the work piece is disposed on the load lock support surface; and 2) a work piece support within the implantation chamber that positions a work piece for treatment within the chamber interior region, the work piece support including a work piece pedestal for picking up the work piece from the support surface of the load lock system prior to treatment, holding the work piece in position during treatment, and depositing the work piece on the support surface of the load lock system subsequent to treatment, the work piece support including a support linkage for moving the work piece pedestal through the opening in the load lock support surface to pick up the work piece from the support surface prior to treatment and deposit the work piece on the support surface subsequent to treatment; b) positioning a work piece on the support surface of the load lock system; c) utilizing the work piece support to pick up the work piece from the support surface of the load lock system and holding the work piece in position in the implantation chamber interior region for treatment; d) treating the work piece; and e) utilizing the work piece support to deposit the work piece on the support surface of the load lock system subsequent to completion of treatment. 14. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 13 wherein the work piece transfer system further includes a robot system for transferring the work piece from a storage area external to the implantation chamber to the load lock system prior to treatment in the implantation chamber and from the load lock system to the storage area subsequent to treatment in the implantation chamber. 15. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 13 comprising a support arm of the work piece transfer system capable of independent movement along two axes. 16. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 13 wherein the load lock system of the work piece transfer system includes a plurality of load locks, each of the plurality of load locks defining an evacutable interior region in fluid communication with the implantation station interior region. 17. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 16 wherein the number of load locks is three and the three load locks are disposed in a stacked arrangement. 18. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 16 wherein each of the plurality of load locks includes a door adjacent the implantation station, which when opened, results in the load lock interior region being in fluid communication with the implantation chamber interior region. 19. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 16 wherein each of the plurality of load locks includes a movable tray, each movable tray including a work piece support surface for supporting a work piece, the support surface including a central opening sized to permit the support pedestal to pass through the central opening to pick up the work piece from the tray work piece support surface and deposit the work piece on the support surface. 20. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 19 wherein each movable tray moves along a path of travel between a retracted position where the tray is within its load lock interior region and an extended position where the tray extends into the implantation station interior region to facilitate the support pedestal passing through the central opening of the tray work piece support surface when a work piece is to be picked up from the tray work piece support surface or deposited on the tray work piece support surface. 21. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 19 wherein for each tray, the tray work piece support surface includes passive work piece grip. 22. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 13 wherein the work piece pedestal of the work piece transfer system moves through the opening in the support surface of the load lock in a direction transverse to a plane defined by the load lock support surface. 23. The method of treating a work piece set forth in claim 13 wherein the work piece pedestal of the work piece transfer system moves through the opening in the support surface of the load lock in a direction substantially orthogonal to a plane defined by the load lock support surface. 