Disclosed herein is a laser welding system having a travel path to carry a first blank and a second blank. An upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly are positioned on the travel path and each of the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies are movable to an open position to allow the first blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly to a first location within the downstream clamp assembly. A laser welding source is directed at a weld location on the travel path between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies. At least one locating means is operable to locate the first weld edge adjacent the weld location. A first displacement means displaces the first weld edge against the locating means. The downstream clamp assembly is movable from the open position to a closed clamped position to clamp the first blank with the first weld edge adjacent the weld location. The locating means is operable to be withdrawn from the travel path. The upstream clamp assembly is movable from the open position to an intermediate position, which is selected to guide the second blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly in a substantially coplanar relationship with the first blank so that the second weld edge makes contact with, but not past, the first weld edge. A second displacement means displaces the second blank to a location adjacent the weld location where the second weld edge abuts the first weld edge. The upstream clamp assembly is movable from the intermediate position to a closed clamped position to clamp the second blank and the the laser welding source is operable to fuse the first and second weld edges blanks together.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for increasing the processing speed of a laser blanking line, comprising the steps of: providing two input locations for providing a source for two sets of blanks in a first group; providing a travel path having an upstream end, the travel path extending through a shearing station to a laser welding station; providing a reject location for receiving rejected blanks; providing a pair of blank pickup units, one adjacent each of the input locations; lifting a blank from the input location with each pickup unit; sensing for the presence of more than one blank at each pickup unit; if a number of blanks are sensed, delivering the pickup unit to the reject location and releasing the blanks; and if only one blank is sensed, delivering the blank to the travel path for delivery to the shearing station. 2. A method for increasing the processing speed of a welding line, comprising the steps of: providing two input locations for providing a source for two sets of blanks; providing a travel path having an upstream end, the travel path extending though a shearing station to a welding station; providing a reject location for receiving rejected blanks; providing a pair of blank pickup units, one adjacent each of the input locations; lifting a blank from the input location with each pickup unit; sensing for the presence of more than one blank at each pickup unit; if a number of blanks are sensed, delivering the pickup unit to the reject location and releasing the blanks; and if only one blank is sensed, delivering the blank to the travel path for delivery to the shearing station. 3. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the blanks are ferromagnetic and wherein the step of sensing includes sensing changes in magnetic flux. 4. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the step of providing a pair of blank pickup units includes the step of providing each pickup unit with a plurality of suction devices for establishing a suction connection between the blank and the pickup unit. 5. A method as defined in claim 4, further comprising the step of installing each pick up unit on a robotic arm. 6. A method as defined in claim 5, wherein the step of sensing includes the step of installing a magnetic flux sensor on the robotic arm so that the sensor is immediately adjacent the blank when the robotic arm lifts the blank from the input location. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein the step of delivering the pickup unit to the reject location includes employing one or more magnets to deliver a magnetic force to the blanks. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the step of delivering the pickup unit to the reject location includes the step of displacing the one or more magnets between an inoperative position in which the magnets are spaced a sufficient distance from an adjacent blank so as to exert substantially no attraction thereon and an operative position sufficiently close to the adjacent blank so as to exert a magnet attraction force thereon. 9. A method for increasing the processing speed of a welding line, comprising: providing two input locations for providing a source for two sets of blanks; providing a travel path having an upstream end, the travel path extending though a shearing station to a welding station; providing a reject location for receiving rejected blanks; providing a pair of blank pickup units, one adjacent each of the input locations; lifting a blank from the input location with each pickup unit; sensing for the presence of more than one blank at each pickup unit; if a number of blanks are sensed, a step for delivering the pickup unit to the reject location and releasing the blanks; and if only one blank is sensed, a step for delivering the blank to the travel path for delivery to the shearing station. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein the blanks are ferromagnetic and wherein the step for sensing includes a step for sensing changes in magnetic flux. 11. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein the step for providing a pair of blank pickup units includes a step for providing each pickup unit with a plurality of suction devices for establishing a suction connection between the blank and the pickup unit. 12. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising a step for installing each pick up unit on a robotic arm. 13. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein the step for sensing includes a step for installing a magnetic flux sensor on the robotic arm so that the sensor is immediately adjacent the blank when the robotic arm lifts the blank from the input location. 14. A method as defined in claim 13, wherein the step for delivering the pickup unit to the reject location includes a step for employing one or more magnets to deliver a magnetic force to the blanks. 15. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein the step for delivering the pickup unit to the reject location includes a step for displacing the one or more magnets between an inoperative position in which the magnets are spaced a sufficient distance from an adjacent blank so as to exert substantially no attraction thereon and an operative position sufficiently close to the adjacent blank so as to exert a magnet attraction force thereon. 16. A system for delivering blanks to a processing station, comprising: an input location for providing a plurality of blanks to be processed; a conveyor having an upstream end near the input location and a downstream end near the processing station; a reject location for receiving rejected blanks; a robotic arm operable to transfer blanks from the input location to the upstream end of the conveyor; a blank pick up assembly coupled to the robot arm and having a plurality of engaging members for engaging the blank in order to deliver the blank to a sensing location which is spaced from the pickup location, and at least one sensing means for sensing a normal condition and a reject condition at the sensing location; the normal condition being defined by the presence of only a single blank at the pickup assembly, wherein the robot arm is operable, in the normal condition to transfer the single blank from the sensing location to the upstream end of the conveyor; the reject condition being defined by the presence of two or more blanks at the pickup assembly, the pickup assembly further comprising at least one supplemental engagement means operable in the reject condition to engage the two or more blanks with sufficient strength to enable the robot arm to transfer the two or more blanks from the sensing location to the reject location and thereafter to release the two or more blanks from the pickup assembly to deliver the two or more blanks to the reject location. 17. A system as defined in claim 16 wherein the engagement means includes a plurality of suction devices positioned on the pickup assembly for establishing a suction connection between the blank and the pickup assembly. 18. A system as defined in claim 17 wherein the blanks are ferromagnetic, the sensing means is operable to sense changes in magnetic flux. 19. A system as defined in claim 18 wherein the robotic arm has a coupling end carrying the pickup assembly, the pickup assembly further comprising a frame arrangement supporting the suction devices, the sensing means being positioned in order to be immediately adjacent the blank when the robotic arm lifts the blank from the input location, in order to sense changes in flux. 20. A system as defined in claim 19 wherein the supplemental engagement means includes one or more magnets to deliver a magnetic force to the two or more blanks. 21. A system as defined in claim 20 wherein the supplemental engagement means includes displacement means which is operable in the reject condition to displacing the magnet from an inoperative position in which the magnet is spaced a sufficient distance from the blank so as to exert substantially no attraction thereon to an operative position sufficiently close to the blank so as to exert a magnet attraction force thereon. 22. A method for delivering blanks to a processing station, comprising the steps of: providing an input location for providing a plurality of blanks to be processed; providing a conveyor having an upstream end near the input location near a downstream end at the processing station; providing a reject location for receiving rejected blanks; providing a blank pickup unit; lifting a blank from the input location with the pickup unit; sensing for the presence of more than one blank at the pickup unit; if a number of blanks are sensed, delivering the pickup unit to the reject location and releasing the blanks; and if only one blank is sensed, delivering the blank to the upstream end of the conveyor. 23. A laser blanking system, comprising: a pair of input locations, each adjacent a source for a corresponding set of blanks; a shearing station; a welding station; a travel path having an upstream end and extending toward a downstream end through the shearing and laser welding stations; a reject location for receiving rejected blanks; a pair of blank pickup units, one adjacent each of the input locations; each blank pickup unit being operable for lifting a blank from the corresponding input location; each pickup unit including a sensing unit for sensing the presence of a plurality of blanks at each pickup unit; each pickup unit responsive to the sensing unit and operable in a first phase when more than one blank is sensed at the corresponding pickup unit for delivering the pickup unit to the reject location and releasing the plurality of blanks; each pickup unit being responsive to the sensing unit and operable in a second phase when only one blank is sensed for delivering the blank to the travel path for delivery to the shearing station; and the shearing station operable for shearing each of the blanks, the laser welding station being operable for welding together the sheared blanks to form a welded blank. 24. A system as defined in claim 23, wherein the blanks are ferromagnetic and the sensing unit is operable to sense changes in magnetic flux. 25. A system as defined in claim 23, each pickup unit comprising a plurality of suction devices for establishing a suction connection between the blank and the pickup unit. 26. A system as defined in claim 25, each pickup unit including a robotic arm having a remote end region supporting the suction devices. 27. A system as defined in claim 26, each sensing unit including magnetic flux sensor located on the robotic arm to be immediately adjacent the blank when the robotic arm lifts the blank from the input location. 28. A system as defined in claim 27, wherein the step of delivering the pickup unit to the reject location includes employing one or more magnets to deliver a magnetic force to the blanks. 29. A system as defined in claim 28, each pickup unit including displacement unit for displacing the one or more magnets between an inoperative position in which the magnets are spaced a sufficient distance from an adjacent blank so as to exert substantially no attraction thereon and an operative position sufficiently close to the adjacent blank so as to exert a magnet attraction force thereon. 