An integrated surgical anchor/localization sensor is disclosed. The anchor is adapted to be secured to an anatomical structure and contains a sensor housing. A receiver is located within the sensor housing and is adapted to sense reference signals generated by a surgical guidance system. A transmitter, connected to the receiver, conveys to a processor signals received by the receiver, so that the signals transmitted by the receiver are indicative of a current position of the anchor. Various other structures and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting and tracking a current position of a tissue or bone anchor, comprising: sensing, via a receiver associated with the tissue or bone anchor, reference signals generated by a surgical navigation system; conveying, via a transmitter associated with the receiver, positional signals as a function of a current location of (i) the receiver and (ii) the reference signals generated by the surgical navigation system; wherein the receiver is configured so that the positional signals correspond to the current position of the tissue or bone anchor. 2. A method according to claim 1, further including sensing the reference signals generated by the surgical navigation system with at least one electromagnetic coil. 3. A method according to claim 1, further including sensing the reference signals generated by the surgical navigation system with two or more electromagnetic coils arranged coaxially and wound at different angles. 4. A method according to claim 1, further including conveying the positional signals to a surgical localization system via one or more wires. 5. A method according to claim 1, further including conveying the positional signals to a surgical localization system via a wireless link. 6. The method according to claim 1, further including sensing the reference signals generated by the surgical navigation system with a plurality of electromagnetic coils arranged collinearly. 7. The method according to claim 1, further including sensing the reference signals generated by the surgical navigation system with a plurality of electromagnetic coils arranged orthogonally. 8. A system for attaching a surgical anchor/localization sensor to a bone in a patient for use during a medical procedure, said system comprising: a bone anchor operable to be substantially rigidly secured to the bone of the patient; a localization sensor to identify a current position of said bone anchor; a connector securing and retaining said localization sensor to said bone anchor to form an integrated bone anchor/localization sensor; and a device engage and drive at least a portion of said integrated bone anchor/localization sensor into the bone of the patient. 9. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein the bone is a bone selected from a group comprising a vertebral body, a skull, a fragmented bone, a long bone, and any combination thereof. 10. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said system is formed as a head clamp. 11. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said system is formed as a head frame pin. 12. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said bone anchor is selected from a group comprising a surgical screw, a surgical staple, a surgical pin, a surgical rod, a needle, and any combination thereof. 13. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said localization sensor is an electromagnetic localization sensor. 14. The system as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic localization sensor is operable to receive electromagnetic signals to identify the current position of said bone anchor. 15. The system as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic localization sensor transmits electromagnetic signals to identify the current position of said bone anchor. 16. The system as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic localization sensor includes a plurality of collinear coils wound at differing angles. 17. The system as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic localization sensor includes a plurality of electromagnetic coils coaxially arranged and wound at differing angles. 18. The system as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic localization sensor includes at least two orthogonal sensing coils. 19. The system as defined in claim 13 wherein said electromagnetic sensor is selected from a group comprising a flux gate, a reed switch, a coil, a magnet, and any combination thereof. 20. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said localization sensor is a conductive localization sensor. 21. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said localization sensor includes a receiver operable to sense reference signals generated by a surgical guidance system and a transmitter operable to transmit positional signals indicative of the current position of said bone anchor. 22. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said localization sensor is a wireless localization sensor. 23. The system as defined in claim 22 wherein said wireless localization sensor includes a battery. 24. The system as defined in claim 22 wherein said wireless localization sensor employs induction to power said wireless localization sensor. 25. The system as defined in claim 21 wherein said transmitter includes a wire for hardwiring said localization sensor to a surgical localization system. 26. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said device is a driver having a proximal handle, an intermediate neck, and a distal engaging end. 27. The system as defined in claim 26 wherein said distal engaging end is a socket operable to engage said bone anchor/localization sensor. 28. The system as defined in claim 26 wherein said distal engaging end is a blade of a screwdriver operable to engage said bone anchor/localization sensor. 29. The system as defined in claim 26 wherein said driver is a cannulated driver defining a cannula extending through said driver. 30. The system as defined in claim 29 wherein said cannula is operable to enable the driver to be positioned over a wire extending from said localization sensor. 31. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said driver defines a slot in an edge of said socket operable to enable wires to pass therethrough. 32. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said anchor/localization sensor includes a socket engaging surface operable to be engaged by said socket of said driver. 33. The system as defined in claim 28 wherein said anchor/localization sensor includes a blade engaging surface operable to be engaged by said blade of said driver. 34. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said connector is integrally formed with said bone anchor. 35. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said connector is detachably secured to said bone anchor. 36. The system as defined in claim 8 wherein said connector includes a housing defining an opening operable to receive said localization sensor. 37. The system as defined in claim 36 wherein said housing defines a wire relief groove operable to receive a wire. 38. The system as defined in claim 36 wherein said localization sensor is selectively detachable from said housing. 39. A method of attaching and tracking a location of a surgical anchor/localization sensor attached to a bony structure of a patient, said method comprising: imaging the bony structure to generate an image of the bony structure; providing an anchor having a localization sensor attached thereto; driving the anchor into the bony structure to secure the anchor and the localization sensor to the bony structure; registering the localization sensor to the image of the bony structure; and tracking the movement and location of the bony structure with the localization sensor. 40. The method as defined in claim 39 further comprising detachably removing the localization sensor from the anchor. 41. The method as defined in claim 39 wherein driving the anchor into the bony structure further includes screwing the anchor into the bony structure by way of a threaded anchor. 42. The method as defined in claim 39 further comprising passing wires from the localization sensor through a cannulated driver and driving the anchor into the bony structure. 43. The method as defined in claim 39 further comprising passing wires from the localization sensor into a slot of a driver and driving the anchor into the bony structure. 44. The method as defined in claim 39 further comprising engaging the surgical anchor/localization sensor with a socket of a driver to drive the anchor into the bony structure. 45. The method as defined in claim 39 further comprising detaching a housing affixed to the anchor to move the localization sensor. 46. The method as defined in claim 39 further comprising driving the anchor into a bony structure selected from a group comprising vertebral body, a skull, a fragmented bone, a long bone, and any combination thereof. 47. The method of claim 39, wherein said localization sensor includes positioning a plurality of coils substantially coaxially. 48. The method of claim 39, wherein said localization sensor includes positioning a plurality of coils substantially collinearly. 49. The method of claim 39, wherein said localization sensor includes positioning a plurality of coils substantially orthogonally. 50. A system for attaching a surgical anchor/localization sensor to a patient for use during a medical procedure, said system comprising: an anchor to be substantially secured to the patient; a localization sensor to identify a current position of said anchor, a connector securing and retaining said localization sensor to said anchor to form an integrated anchor/localization sensor; and a device to engage said integrated anchor/localization sensor and drive at least a portion of said anchor/localization sensor into the patient. 51. The system of claim 50, wherein said localization sensor includes a plurality of coils positioned substantially coaxially. 52. The system of claim 50, wherein said localization sensor includes a plurality of coils positioned substantially collinearly. 53. The system of claim 50, wherein said localization sensor includes a plurality of coils positioned substantially orthogonally. 54. A method of attaching and tracking a location of a surgical anchor/localization sensor attached to a patient, said method comprising: imaging the patient to generate an image of the patient; providing an anchor having a localization sensor attached thereto to form an integrated anchor/localization sensor; driving at least a portion of the integrated anchor/localization sensor into the patient to secure the anchor and the localization sensor to the patient; registering the localization sensor to the image of the patient; and tracking the movement and location of the patient with the localization sensor. 55. The method of claim 54, wherein providing said localization sensor includes providing a plurality of coils substantially coaxially. 56. The method of claim 54, wherein providing said localization sensor includes providing a plurality of coils substantially collinearly. 57. The method of claim 54, wherein providing said localization sensor includes providing a plurality of coils substantially orthogonally. 