An apparatus provides automatically controlled facial rejuvenation treatments and is comprised of a scanner for scanning a patient's face, a treatment robot, including a plurality of dermatological devices for treatment of facial skin, and a computer coupled to the scanner and robot for determining a treatment protocol of the patient's face based on a scanned input of the patient's face and for generating a plurality of commands for the treatment robot for movement and/or control of the plurality of dermatological devices for the automated treatment of the skin of the patient's face. A dermatological laser, needle injector, and/or air injector are used. The needle injector injects a minute amount of substance at a multiplicity of points within a computer-identified treatment area on the patient's face.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for providing automatically controlled facial rejuvenation treatments comprising: scanning a patient's face; determining a treatment protocol of the patient's face based on a scanned input of the patient's face in a software controlled computer; generating a plurality of commands for a treatment robot for movement and/or control of a plurality of dermatological devices for the automated treatment of the skin of the patient's face; and operating the treatment robot, including a plurality of dermatological devices to treat the facial skin according to the plurality of commands. 2. The method of claim 1 where operating the treatment robot comprises selectively moving and operating a dermatological laser to effect dermatological treatment of the facial skin according to the treatment protocol determined by the computer. 3. The method of claim 1 where operating the treatment robot comprises selectively moving and operating a dermatological needle injector to effect dermatological treatment of the facial skin according to the treatment protocol determined by the computer. 4. The method of claim 1 where operating the treatment robot comprises selectively moving and operating a dermatological air injector to effect dermatological treatment of the facial skin according to the treatment protocol determined by the computer. 5. The method of claim 1 where operating the treatment robot comprises selectively moving and operating a dermatological sprayer to effect dermatological treatment of the facial skin according to the treatment protocol determined by the computer. 6. The method of claim 1 where generating a plurality of commands for a treatment robot comprises controlling a dermatological needle injector to inject a substance at a multiplicity of points within a computer-identified treatment area on the patient's face. 7. The method of claim 6 where controlling a dermatological needle injector to inject a substance at a multiplicity of points comprises injecting a minute quantity of a dermatologically active substance in a microscopic pattern at a multiplicity of injection points. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a plurality of commands for a treatment robot for movement and/or control comprises generating a protocol of treatments and commands for the robot wherein the determined optimal facial treatment is automatically implemented. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein generating a protocol of treatments and commands comprises generating a protocol to be implemented in a plurality of staged sessions. 10. The method of claim 9 where generating a protocol to be implemented in a plurality of staged sessions comprises rescanning the patient's face, registering the rescan with a prior stored scan of the patient's face, comparing the patient's face as rescanned with the stored scan and modifying the facial dermatological treatments to be provided to the patient. 