A manufacturing cell having a plurality of work stations, where at least one of the work station comprises a metalworking machine, and where at least one metalworking machine is provided with a modular tooling apparatus. The modular tooling apparatus consists of a base having one or more attachment surfaces, and one or more inserts that can be inserted semi-permanently to the attachment surfaces. The attachment surface is typically a pocket in the surface of the base. The insert has a workpiece support feature that can support and/or secure the workpiece into the proper position and orientation for machining. The base, pockets and inserts are configured to provide a characteristic location and orientation for the workpiece relative to the base, and to the metalworking machine. The modular tooling apparatus permits machining a family of workpiece members that are related but different in detail, by inserting an insert member from the family of inserts to properly position and orient the corresponding workpiece member, without needing to change, disconnect, or move the base tooling. The invention also provides a process for performing a plurality of metalworking operations on workpieces, employing the manufacturing cell described hereinabove.
Claims We claim: 1. A manufacturing cell for performing a plurality of metalworking operations on a workpiece, wherein the manufacturing cell comprises a plurality of work stations, and wherein at least one work station comprises: (a) a metalworking machine; and (b) modular tooling apparatus secured to a table of the metalworking machine, the modular tooling apparatus comprising: (i) a base comprising: a means for securing the base to the table of the metalworking machine; and an attachment surface comprising a pocket having a locating feature; and (ii) at least one insert associated with the attachment surface by sliding into an opening of the pocket, the at least one insert comprising a locating feature and pocket orientation feature whereby the at least one insert can associate with the pocket in only one orientation, and a workpiece support feature on a surface thereof; wherein the locating feature on the at least one insert is configured to associate with the locating feature of the attachment surface, thereby defining a location of the workpiece support feature relative to the base. 2. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the pocket and the at least one insert are configured whereby the pocket restrains the movement of the at least one insert in a plurality of directions. 3. The manufacturing cell according to claim 2, wherein the pocket is configured to restrain the at least one insert within the pocket in all directions except one remaining direction. 4. The manufacturing cell according to claim 3, further comprising an insert securement for separably securing the at least one insert in the pocket. 5. The manufacturing cell according to claim 4, wherein the insert securement is configured to move between a first position at which the at least one insert is not secured and a second position at which the at least one insert is secured, without use of a mechanic's tool. 6. The manufacturing cell according to claim 2, wherein the pocket and the at least one insert are configured whereby one of the plurality of metalworking operations exerts a force upon the at least one insert in at least one of the plurality of restrained directions. 7. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the attachment surface and an associated insert are moveable relative to the base. 8. The manufacturing cell according to claim 7, further comprising a first force means configured to apply a force upon a workpiece disposed upon the workpiece support feature, to secure the workpiece against the workpiece support feature. 9. The manufacturing cell according to claim 8, further comprising a second force means configured to apply upon the moveable insert a force to secure the workpiece support feature of the moveable insert against the workpiece. 10. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the location of the workpiece support feature is semi-permanently fixed between successive metalworking operations upon successive workpieces. 11. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the at least one insert comprises a workpiece orientation feature, whereby the workpiece can be associated with the workpiece support feature of the at least one insert in only one orientation. 12. The manufacturing cell according to claim 1, wherein the at least one insert comprises a first insert and a second insert, wherein the second insert is related in general configuration, but different in detail from the first insert, the detail being selected from size and proportion, and wherein the first and second inserts associate alternately with the same pocket. 13. The manufacturing cell according to claim 12, wherein the respective workpiece support features of the first and second inserts are configured to support first and second workpieces, respectively, wherein the workpieces are related in general configuration, but different in detail, the detail being selected from size and proportion. 14. The manufacturing cell according to claim 12, wherein the respective support features of the first and second inserts are configured to support the same workpiece in different positions during sequential first and second metalworking operations, respectively. 