A method and a robotic device for locomotion training. The method involves shifting a subject's pelvis without directly contacting the subject's leg, thereby causing the subject's legs to move along a moveable surface. The device comprises two backdriveable robots, each having three pneumatic cylinders that connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. Also provided is a method of determining a locomotion training strategy for a pelvic-shifting robot by incorporating dynamic motion optimization.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic device for manipulating and/or measuring the pelvic motion of a subject undergoing locomotion training, the device comprising at least one backdriveable robot for attaching to the torso of the subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the subject to thereby cause the subject's legs to move along a surface. 2. The device of claim 1 comprising a pair of backdriveable robots, each robot for attaching to the torso of the subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the subject. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the robot comprises a plurality of pneumatic actuators. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein the robot comprises three pneumatic actuators. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein each pneumatic actuator is a pneumatic cylinder. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein the three pneumatic cylinders connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. 7. A robotic device for manipulating and/or measuring the pelvic motion of a subject undergoing locomotion training, the device comprising a pair of backdriveable robots for attaching to the torso of the subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the subject, each robot comprising three pneumatic cylinders which connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. 8. A system for locomotion therapy, comprising: (a) a surface; (b) a support system for supporting a subject over the surface to position at least one of the subject's legs thereupon; and (c) a robotic device comprising at least one backdriveable robot for attaching to the torso of the supported subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the supported subject to thereby cause the legs to move along the surface. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the surface is a moveable surface. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the robotic device comprises a pair of backdriveable robots, each robot for attaching to the torso of the subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the subject. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein the robot comprises a plurality of pneumatic actuators. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the robot comprises three pneumatic actuators. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein each pneumatic activator is a pneumatic cylinder. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the three pneumatic cylinders connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. 15. A system for locomotion therapy, comprising: (a) a moveable surface; (b) a suspension system for suspending a subject over the moveable surface to position at least one of the subject's legs thereupon; and (c) a robotic device comprising a pair of backdriveable robots for attaching to the torso of the suspended subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the suspended subject, each robot comprising three pneumatic cylinders which connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. 16. A system for locomotion therapy, comprising: (a) a surface; and (b) a robotic device comprising at least one backdriveable robot for attaching to the torso of a subject, for applying force to the pelvis of the subject to thereby cause the subject's legs to move along the surface, and for supporting the subject over the surface. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the surface is a moveable surface. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein the robotic device comprises a pair of backdriveable robots, each robot for attaching to the torso of the subject and for applying force to the pelvis of the subject. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein the robot comprises a plurality of pneumatic actuators. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the robot comprises three pneumatic actuators. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein each pneumatic activator is a pneumatic cylinder. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein the three pneumatic cylinders connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. 23. A system for locomotion therapy, comprising: (a) a moveable surface; and (b) a robotic device comprising a pair of backdriveable robots for attaching to the torso of a subject, for applying force to the pelvis of the subject, and for supporting the subject over the surface, each robot comprising three pneumatic cylinders which connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's torso. 24. A backdriveable robot for manipulating and/or measuring the limb movement of a subject undergoing physical training of a limb, the robot comprising three pneumatic cylinders that connect to each other at their rod ends for attachment to the subject's limb. 25. The device of claim 24 wherein the limb is a leg of the subject. 26. A method of locomotion training of a subject, comprising: (a) providing a movable surface; (b) suspending the subject over the movable surface to position at least one of the subject's legs thereupon; (c) providing a robotic device comprising two backdriveable pneumatic robots; (d) attaching the robotic device to the torso of the suspended subject; and (e) shifting the suspended subject's pelvis by activating the robotic device, thereby causing the subject's legs to move along the movable surface. 