Apparatus and methods are provided for measuring vehicle wheel alignment characteristics. According to one embodiment, during a first measurement cycle, spatial coordinates of multiple points on the wheel are obtained by positioning a vision sensor at various angular offsets relative to the wheel, the multiple points representative of samples from each of the various angular offsets. After the first measurement cycle and before the second measurement cycle, the wheel is rotated at least a partial revolution. During the second measurement cycle, spatial coordinates of multiple points on the wheel are obtained by positioning the vision sensor at various angular offsets relative to the wheel, the multiple points representative of samples from each of the various angular offsets. Finally, one or more characteristics of the wheel are determined based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a vision sensor having a field of vision, the vision sensor capable of determining spatial coordinates of a group of points within the field of vision; a motor to rotate the vision sensor through a plurality of angular positions with respect to a wheel to be characterized during a first measurement cycle and a second measurement cycle so that the fields of vision associated with the plurality of angular positions together form at least a portion of a torus; a positional recorder to collect, for each of the plurality of angular positions, spatial coordinates of a plurality of points located on a surface of the wheel and within the torus during the first measurement cycle and to collect, for each of the plurality of angular positions, spatial coordinates of a plurality of points located on the surface and within the torus during the second measurement cycle; a moveable plate, with which the wheel interfaces, to rotate the wheel from a first position to a second position between the first measurement cycle and the second measurement cycle; and a computer to determine one or more characteristics of the wheel based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the one or more characteristics of the wheel comprises an alignment characteristic of the wheel. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein a characteristic of the one or more characteristics of the wheel comprises toe. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein a characteristic of the one or more characteristics of the wheel comprises camber. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein a characteristic of the one or more characteristics of the wheel indicates whether the wheel has any irregularities in its sidewall. 6. A method comprising: during a first measurement cycle, obtaining spatial coordinates of a plurality of points on a wheel to be characterized by positioning a vision sensor at a plurality of angular offsets relative to the wheel, the plurality of points sampled from each of the plurality of angular offsets; rotating the wheel from a first position to a second position between the first measurement cycle and a second measurement cycle, by moving a plate underneath the wheel with which the wheel interfaces; during the second measurement cycle, obtaining spatial coordinates of a plurality of points on the wheel by positioning the vision sensor at a plurality of angular offsets relative to the wheel, the plurality of points sampled from each of the plurality of angular offsets; and determining one or more characteristics of the wheel based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of points lie on a sidewall of the wheel. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of points lie on a rim of the wheel. 9. The method of claim 6, further comprising rotating the vision sensor during the first measurement cycle and during the second measurement cycle. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said rotating the vision sensor comprises rotating the vision sensor in a circular arc approximately 270 degrees. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein said rotating the vision sensor comprises rotating the vision sensor in a non-circular arc. 12. The method of claim 6, wherein said determining one or more characteristics is unaffected by the wheel having negligible runout. 13. The method of claim 6, further comprising measuring and recording an angular position of the vision sensor relative to the wheel along with those of the spatial coordinates corresponding to the angular position. 14. The method of claim 6, wherein said determining one or more characteristics of the wheel involves Fourier decomposition. 15. An apparatus comprising: a sensor means, having a field of vision, for determining spatial coordinates of a group of points within the field of vision; a means for rotating the vision sensor through a plurality of angular positions with respect to a wheel of a vehicle to be characterized during a first measurement cycle and a second measurement cycle so that the fields of vision associated with the plurality of angular positions together form at least a portion of a torus; a positional recording means for collecting, for each of the plurality of angular positions, spatial coordinates of a plurality of points located on a surface of the wheel and within the torus during the first measurement cycle and for collecting, for each of the plurality of angular positions, spatial coordinates of a plurality of points located on the surface and within the torus during the second measurement cycle; a means for maintaining the vehicle in substantially the same position while rotating the wheel from a first position to a second position between the first measurement cycle and the second measurement cycle; and a means for determining one or more characteristics of the wheel based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle. 16. A method comprising: during a first measurement cycle, a step for obtaining spatial coordinates of a plurality of points on a wheel to be characterized by positioning a vision sensor at a plurality of angular offsets relative to the wheel, each of the plurality of points corresponding to a different one of the plurality of angular offsets; a step for rotating the wheel from a first position to a second position between the first measurement cycle and a second measurement cycle by a movement of a plate underneath the wheel; during the second measurement cycle, a step for obtaining spatial coordinates of a plurality of points on the wheel by positioning the vision sensor at a plurality of angular offsets relative to the wheel, each of the plurality of points corresponding to a different one of the plurality of angular offsets; and a step for determining one or more characteristics of the wheel based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle. 17. A method comprising: during a first measurement cycle, obtaining spatial coordinates of a plurality of points on a wheel to be characterized by positioning a single movable vision sensor at a plurality of angular offset relative to the wheel, the plurality of points sampled from each of the plurality of angular offsets; rotating the wheel from a first position to a second position between the first measurement cycle and a second measurement cycle, by moving a plate underneath the wheel with which the wheel interfaces; during the second measurement cycle, obtaining spatial coordinates of a plurality of points on the wheel by positioning the single moveable vision sensor at a plurality of angular offsets relative to the wheel, the plurality of points sampled from each of the plurality of angular offsets; and determining one or more characteristics of the wheel based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the wheel is stationary during at least one of the measurement cycles. 19. A method comprising: determining a first set of measurements from which a first approximation of a plane of a wheel of a vehicle may be derived by periodically measuring a distance from a vision sensor to a surface of the wheel at a plurality of angular positions while rotating the vision sensor in a substantially circular arc relative to the wheel; rotating the wheel a predetermined angle about an axis of the wheel by expanding or contracting a hydraulic or pneumatic ram coupled to a moveable plate upon which the wheel rests; determining a second set of measurement from which a second approximation of the plane of the wheel may be derived by periodically measuring the distance from the vision sensor to the surface while again rotating the vision sensor relative to the wheel; and determining one or more alignment characteristics of the wheel based on the first set of measurements and the second set of measurements by removing an error competent contributing to inaccuracy of the first approximation of the plane of the wheel and the second approximation of the plane of the wheel. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the first approximation of the plane of the wheel and the second approximation of the plane of the wheel are modeled as a sum of sinusoids including a first sinusoid representing a basic plane of the wheel and a second sinusoid representing the error component. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined angle is greater than or equal to ninety degrees. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined angle is between thirty and ninety degrees. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined angle is selected based on the sweep of the vision sensor to create an overlap between the first and second measurement cycles. 24. A wheel alignment system comprising: a platform to support a vehicle; a vision sensor associated with the platform, the vision sensor having a field of vision and capable of determining spatial coordinates of a group of points within the field of vision: a motor coupled to the vision sensor to rotate the vision sensor through a plurality of angular positions with respect to a wheel of the vehicle to be characterized during a first measurement cycle and a second measurement cycle so that the fields of vision associated with the plurality of angular positions together form at least a portion of a torus; a positional recorder associated with the vision sensor to collect, for each of the plurality of angular positions, spatial coordinates of a plurality of points located on a surface of the wheel and within the torus during the first measurement cycle and to collect, for each of the plurality of angular positions, spatial coordinates of a plurality of points located on the surface and within the torus during the second measurement cycle; at least one inclined moveable plate moveably attached to the platform, the at least one inclined moveable plate configured to interface with the wheel and rotate the wheel from a first position to a second position between the first measurement cycle and second measurement cycle by expanding or contracting a hydraulic or pneumatic ram coupled to the at least one included moveable plate ans the platform; and a computer to determine one or more characteristics of the wheel based upon the spatial coordinates collected during the first measurement cycle and the spatial coordinates collected during the second measurement cycle. 