Methods and apparatus are provided for mounting one or more glazing panes or insulating glass units into a window sash frame member having spaced side walls joined by an inner facing frame surface with a spacing structure disposed on the frame surface. Glazing panes are placed against strips of adhesive sealant within the window sash frame. Folding glazing beads hingedly attached to the side or inner walls of the frame member are folded against the glazing panes to secure them to the window sash frame member and/or to cover the glazing pane edges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A window sash frame comprising: an inner facing frame surface extending substantially around the sash frame; first and second glazing pane mounting surfaces extending from said inner facing frame surface; a first hinged component extending substantially over the length of at least one portion the sash frame and being hingedly attached to at least one of: (i) the first glazing pane mounting surface, (ii) said inner facing frame surface; a second hinged component extending substantially over the length of said at least one portion and being hingedly attached to at least one of: (i) the second glazing pane mounting surface, (ii) said inner facing frame surface; wherein said first and second hinged components are adapted to be pivoted towards the first and second glazing pane mounting surfaces, respectively. 2. The window sash of claim 1 wherein: said first hinged component functions as a glazing bead for a first glazing pane mounted to the first glazing pane mounting surface, and said second hinged component functions as a glazing bead for a second glazing pane mounted to the second glazing pane mounting surface. 3. The window sash frame of claim 2 wherein: said first and second hinged components are affixed to the first and second glazing panes, respectively, using an adhesive sealant. 4. The window sash frame of claim 1 further including: a first locking member for locking the first hinged component in position adjacent the first glazing pane mounting surface; and a second locking member for locking the second hinged component in position adjacent the second glazing pane mounting surface. 5. The window sash frame of claim 2, further comprising: a first strip of adhesive between an end of said first glazing bead and said first glazing pane; and a second strip of adhesive between an end of said second glazing bead and said second glazing pane. 6. The window sash frame of claim 5 further comprising: a third strip of adhesive located adjacent the inner facing frame surface and adapted to extend between the first and second glazing panes. 7. The window sash frame of claim 1 wherein said first and second hinged components extend around substantially the entire perimeter of said sash frame, adjacent opposite sides of the inner facing frame surface. 8. The window sash frame of claim 1, wherein the first and second hinged components are adapted to hold at least one of: (i) a glazing pane, (ii) an insulating glass unit, (iii) a window screen, (iv) an energy panel to the window sash. 9. The window sash frame of claim 1, wherein said first and second hinged components are adapted to be folded from an initial position on the sash frame through an arc of about 270.degree. to a final functional position. 