Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 8 to 50 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleobases 1479 through 1508 of a coding region of a nucleic acid molecule encoding human fibroblast growth factor receptor 2, wherein said compound is an antisense oligonucleotide, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage, and wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with said nucleic acid molecule encoding human fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (SEQ ID NO: 3) and inhibits the expression of human fibroblast growth factor receptor 2. 2. The compound of claim 1 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 3. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-o-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 5. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 7. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 8. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 9. The composition of claim 8 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 10. The composition of claim 8 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 11. A method of inhibiting the expression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues in vitro with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 is inhibited. 