An asynchronous system for testing disk drives includes a test platform that includes a plurality of slots for receiving and for providing communication with drives. The slots are segregated into a plurality of groups configured to satisfy predetermined environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of the drives to be loaded therein. An automated loader/unloader is configured to selectively load drives into and out of the platform and to move drives between the plurality of groups. A module controller is assigned to each group of slots, each module controller being coupled to the slots of its assigned group and configured to administer at least one test to drives loaded in its assigned group while insuring that the predetermined environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of its assigned group remain satisfied. A test matrix controller controls the loader/unloader to asynchronously move each drive that passes the test(s) administered in one group to a selected empty slot of another group for administration of a next test, to asynchronously move each drive that completes or fails the series of tests out of the platform. The moving steps are carried out without compromising the respective environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of the plurality of groups.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of testing a plurality of disk drives in a test platform configured to administer a sequential series of tests on the plurality of disk drives, the test platform including a plurality of slots that are configured to receive and to provide communication with respective ones of the plurality of disk drives, the plurality of slots being segregated into a plurality of groups, each group being configured to satisfy predetermined environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of the disk drives to be loaded therein, the method comprising: identifying disk drives that are ready to undergo designated ones of the series of tests; loading the identified disk drives into empty slots of groups appropriate to the designated ones of the sequential series of tests and administering at least one test of the sequential series of tests to the loaded disk drives; without compromising the environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of each group, asynchronously: moving each disk drive, upon having passed the at least one administered test, to an empty slot of another selected group of the plurality of groups for administration of a next test within the sequential series of tests; moving each disk drive that completes the sequential series of tests out of the test platform; and moving any drive that fails any of the sequential series of tests out of the test platform. 2. The method of claim 1, further including communicating steps to communicate data, control and status information with the disk drives loaded into the slots during an administration of each of the sequential series of tests, the communicating steps being carried out by at least one module controller coupled to each of the plurality of groups of slots. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the administering step is carried out by at least one module controller coupled to each of the plurality of groups of slots. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the moving steps are controlled by a robot controlled by a test matrix controller, the test matrix controller being coupled to each of the module controllers. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of providing a greater number of channels in the test platform for a first group of slots that requires a high communication bandwidth with the at least one module controller than for a second group of slots that requires a relatively lower communication bandwidth with the at least one module controller. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the communicating steps are selectively carried out according to a protocol selected from serial ATA, parallel ATA, SCSI, Fibre Channel, FireWire (IEEE1394) and USB. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the communicating steps are carried out at a maximum data rate supported by the selected protocol. 8. The method of claim 2, further comprising a step of multiplexing the control, data and status information from a channel coupled to the module controller to a selected one of a plurality of slots coupled to the channel. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the multiplexing step is carried while respecting a protocol selected from serial ATA, parallel ATA, SCSI, Fibre Channel, FireWire and USB. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the multiplexing steps are carried out at a maximum data rate supported by the selected protocol. 11. An asynchronous disk drive system for testing a plurality of disk drives, comprising: a test platform that includes a plurality of slots, each slot being configured to receive and to provide communication with a disk drive, the plurality of slots being segregated into a plurality of groups, each group being configured to satisfy predetermined environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of the disk drives to be loaded therein; an automated loader/unloader configured to selectively load disk drives into and out of the test platform and to move disk drives between the plurality of groups; a module controller assigned to each group of slots, each module controller being coupled to the slots of its assigned group, each module controller being configured to administer at least one of a sequential series of tests to disk drives loaded in the slots of its assigned group while insuring that the predetermined environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of its assigned group remain satisfied; a test matrix controller configured to communicate with each module controller and to control the automated loader/unloader to, without compromising the respective predetermined environmental, communication bandwidth and test schedule requirements of the plurality of groups, asynchronously move each disk drive that passes the at least one test administered in one group to a selected empty slot of another group of the plurality of groups for administration of a next test within the sequential series of tests, each disk drive that completes the sequential series of tests out of the test platform, and any drive that falls any of the sequential series of tests out of the test platform. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the automated loader/unloader is a robotic loader/unloader. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein each module controller is coupled to a plurality of channels, each channel of the plurality of channels being configured to enable communication between the module controller and at least one slot belonging to the group of slots assigned to the module controller. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein slots that are configured to administer a test that requires a high communication bandwidth with the module controller are each coupled to a respective single one of the plurality of channels. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein slots that are configured to administer a firmware load and software preparation test or a microcode download test or final tests are each coupled to single channel. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein at least one of the plurality of channels is coupled to a plurality of slots configured to administer a test that requires a low communication bandwidth with the module controller. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein at least one of the plurality of channels is coupled to a plurality of slots configured to administer a seeded self-servo write test or to a plurality of slots configured to administer a burn in self-test. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein a number of slots to which each channel is coupled increases as a required communication bandwidth between the module controller and the slots of the module controller's assigned group of slots decreases. 19. The system of claim 11, wherein a number of slots assigned to each group is proportional to a length of time necessary to complete the tests administered in each group. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein each channel includes an engine for performing data transfers over a parallel interface with the module controller, a data buffer coupled to the engine and a serial interface coupled to the engine, the serial interface being configured to output serial data to at least one slot. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the serial interface is configured to output data according to a serial ATA (SATA) protocol. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the engine for performing data transfers is configured to perform data transfers according to an ultra direct memory access (UDMA) protocol. 23. The system of claim 11, wherein each slot is configured to selectively communicate with a drive loaded therein over a serial or a parallel interface. 24. The system of claim 13, wherein each channel communicates with the module controller over a PCI bus interface. 25. The system of claim 13, wherein the test matrix controller is coupled to the automated loader/unloader and to each of the module controllers via an Ethernet connection. 