A method and system for providing information related to a set of automated resources that may cooperate in an environment to perform an automated process, the method comprising the steps of associating a specific environment location with the automated process, determining the locations of resources with respect to the specific location and, where resources are proximate the specific location, providing information related to the automated process. Also a method for facility communication between distributed resources where location or an attribute akin thereto is used to tag data and to monitor network data for specific required data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment; determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; and providing the process information. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of using the process information to configure the resource set to perform the process. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein, if the first resource is other than one of the set resources, the process further includes indicating that the first resource is other than a set resource. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein each resource is characterized by characteristics, the method further including the step of identifying characteristics of the first resource and wherein the step of providing information includes providing information based on the location and the characteristics of the first resource. 5. The method of claim 1 further including the step of associating a specific location within the environment with the process wherein the step of determining location includes determining location with respect to the specific location. 6. The method of claim 5 further including the step of associating a process zone with the specific location and wherein the step of determining location includes determining if the first resource is located within the process zone. 7. The method of claim 6 further including the step of identifying a process zone as a function of at least a sub-set of the resource set and physical constraints within the environment. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of providing process information includes the step of providing juxtaposition information indicating how the first resource should be juxtaposed with respect to the other set resources to perform the process. 9. The method of claim 8 further including the steps of monitoring set resource juxtapositions and indicating when the set resource relative juxtapositions are incorrect. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of providing process information further includes the step of providing commissioning information indicating how the resource set including the first resource should be commissioned to perform the process. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the set resources include at least a sub-set of machines, actuators, controllers, sensors and interfaces and the step of providing information includes providing information useable to configure the resource set. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining resource location includes the steps of providing at least a receiver within the environment and a transmitter on the first resource and transmitting information from the transmitter to the receiver that can be used to identify the first resource location. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of providing a receiver includes providing a plurality of access points, each access point including at least a receiver. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of moving includes linking the first resource to an I/O port associated with the resource set. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining the location includes determining the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to at least one other set resource. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the process is an automated process and wherein the step of providing process information includes providing automated process information. 17. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment; determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; and providing the process information; wherein the first resource includes a programmable resource and wherein the step of providing the process information includes programming the programmable resource. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource initially includes a program code and the step of programming includes modifying the program code. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the resources are of different types, the method further including the step of identifying the type of the first resource and wherein the step of programming includes the step of identify code for the first resource type and providing the identified code. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein there are several different instances of the first resource type where each instance has different characteristics, the step of identifying the first resource type including identifying the characteristics of the first resource type and the step of programming including identifying code as a function of the first resource characteristics and providing the identified code. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the programmable resource is at a first physical location within the environment and is linked to a network and the step of programming includes causing the programmable resource to tag data transmitted by the programmable resource onto the network as produced at the first location. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network and, wherein, the step of programming further includes the step of causing the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data produced at the first location. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of programming the second programmable resource includes causing the second programmable resource to consume at least some of the network data produced at the first location. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the step of programming the first programmable resource includes causing the first programmable resource to monitor network data for data produced at at least a second physical location within the environment. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of programming also includes programming the first programmable resource to consume at least some data produced at the second location. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein the second programmable resource is at a second location and, wherein, the step of programming the first programmable resource includes causing the first programmable resource to monitor network data for data produced at the second location. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of programming further includes programming the first programmable resource to consume at least some network data produced at the second location. 28. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is linked to a network and wherein the step of programming includes programming the programmable resource to monitor network data for data produced at at least one location within the environment and to consume at least some of the network data produced at the at least one location. 29. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is at a first physical location within the environment, the resource set includes a second resource located at a second physical location within the environment, the first and second resources are linked via a network, the second resource generates at least some data tagged to indicate that the data is produced at the second location and, wherein, the step of programming includes causing the programmable resource to monitor network data for data produced at the second location. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the step of programming further includes programming the first programmable resource to consume at least some network data produced at the second location. 31. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource at a first physical location within the environment and the set includes at least a second programmable resource that requires at least some data from a resource at the first location, the first and second resources are linked via a network and, wherein, the method further includes the steps of, after locating the first programmable resource at the first location, identifying a network address of at least one of the first and second programmable resources and using the identified address to facilitate communication between the first and second resources. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the first programmable resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes causing the first programmable resource to tag data produced by the first programmable resource as produced at the first programmable resource address prior to transmitting the data on the network and causing the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data tagged as produced at the first programmable resource address. 33. The method of claim 31 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the second programmable resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes programming the first programmable resource to transmit data to the identified address via the network. 34. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource at a first physical location within the environment and the set includes at least a second programmable resource at a second physical location within the environment, the first resource requiring at least some data from a resource at the second location, the first and second resources are linked via a network and, wherein, the method further includes the steps of, after locating the first programmable resource at the first location, identifying a network address of at least one of the first and second programmable resources and using the identified address to facilitate communication between the first and second resources. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the second programmable resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes programming the second programmable resource to transmit data on the network tagged as produced at the second programmable resource address and programming the first programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data tagged as produced at the second programmable resource address. 36. The method of claim 34 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the first programmable resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes programming the second programmable resource to transmit data to the identified address via the network and programming the first programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data tagged as intended for the first programmable resource. 37. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource and the set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the first programmable resource via a network and wherein the step of programming includes causing at least a sub-set of the programmable resources to tag at least some data transmitted on the network as produced at specific locations within the environment. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of programming further includes the step of programming at least a sub-set of the programmable resources to monitor network data for data tagged as produced at specific environment locations. 39. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of programming includes programming at least a sub-set of the first resource and the other set resources as a function of the location of the first resource. 40. The method of claim 17 wherein the process includes a plurality of sub-processes and wherein the step of programming includes identifying a first sub-process to be performed by the programmable resource and providing a first sub-process program to the programmable resource. 41. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is linked to a network and wherein the step of programming further includes the step of tagging data produced by the programmable resource as associated with the first sub-process prior to transmitting the data onto the network. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource and wherein the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network and wherein the step of programming further includes the step of programming the second programmable processor to monitor the network for data associated with the first sub-process and to consume at least some of the data associated with the first sub-process. 43. The method of claim 17 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network, the second resource performs a sub-process of the process, the second resource tags data as produced by the sub-process and, wherein, the method further includes the step of programming the first programmable resource to monitor the network for data produced by the sub-process and to consume at least some of the data produced by the sub-process. 44. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment; determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; and providing the process information; using the process information to configure the resource set to perform the process; wherein the resource set includes a programmable resource linkable to the first resource; and wherein the step of configuring includes the step of providing program code to the programmable resource. 45. The method of claim 44 wherein the first resource is at a first physical location within the environment, the programmable resource is at a second physical location within the environment and is linked to a network, and, wherein, the step of programming includes programming the programmable resource to tag data transmitted by the programmable resource onto the network as produced at a producer location wherein the producer location is one of the first and second locations. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the first programmable resource via the network and, wherein, the step of programming further includes the step of programming the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data produced at the producer location. 47. The method of claim 46 wherein the step of programming the second programmable resource includes programming the second programmable resource to consume at least some of the network data produced at the producer location. 48. The method of claim 47 wherein the second programmable resource is at a third physical location within the environment and, wherein, the step of programming the first programmable resource includes programming the first programmable resource to monitor network for data produced at the third location and to consume at least some network data produced at the third location. 49. The method of claim 44 wherein the programmable resource is at a first physical location within the environment, the resource set includes a second resource located at a second physical location within the environment, the first and second resources are linked via a network, the second resource generates at least some data tagged to indicate that the data is produced at the second location and, wherein, the step of programming includes programming the programmable resource to monitor network data for data produced at the second location and to consume at least some of the network data produced at the second location. 50. The method of claim 44 wherein the first resource is at a first physical location within the environment, the programmable resource is a first programmable resource at a second physical location within the environment and the set includes at least a second programmable resource that requires at least some data from a resource at the first location, the first and second programmable resources are linked via a network and, wherein, the method further includes the steps of, after locating the first resource at the first location, identifying a network address of at least one of the first resource and second programmable resource and using the identified address to facilitate communication between the first and second programmable resources. 51. The method of claim 50 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the first resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes programming the first programmable resource to transmit data on the network tagged as produced at the first resource address and programming the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data tagged as produced at the first resource address. 52. The method of claim 44 wherein the first resource is located at a first physical location within the environment, the programmable resource is a first programmable resource at a second physical location within the environment and the set includes at least a second programmable resource at a third physical location within the environment, the first programmable resource requiring at least some data from a resource at the third location to control the first resource, the first and second programmable resources are linked via a network and, wherein, the method further includes the steps of, after locating the first programmable resource at the first location, identifying a network address of at least one of the first and second programmable resources and using the identified address to facilitate communication between the first and second resources. 53. The method of claim 52 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the second programmable resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes programming the second programmable resource to transmit data on the network tagged as produced at the second programmable resource address and programming the first programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data tagged as produced at the second programmable resource address. 54. The method of claim 52 wherein the step of identifying the network address includes identifying the address of the first programmable resource and wherein the step of facilitating communication includes programming the second programmable resource to transmit data to the identified address via the network. 55. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment; determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; and providing the process information; and using the process information to configure the resource set to perform the process; wherein the step of providing process information further includes the step of providing linking information indicating how the first resource should be linked to the other set resources to perform the process. 56. The method of claim 55 also for use with an interface and wherein the step of providing information includes providing at least a sub-set of the information via the interface. 57. The method of claim 55 wherein the first resource includes I/O control ports and wherein the linking information includes at least one of mechanical linking information and I/O linking information. 58. The method of claim 55 further including the step of linking the first resource to the other set resources in a manner consistent with the process information. 59. The method of claim 55 wherein the step of providing process information further includes the step of providing commissioning information indicating how the resource set including the first resource should be commissioned to perform the process. 60. A method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment, the step of moving including moving the first resource to a location proximate the other set resources; determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; and providing the process information. 61. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment; determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; providing the process information; and wherein a sub-set of the set resources is present at a specific location and the process is associated with the sub-set, at least one additional resource of a specific type in addition to the sub-set may be combined with the sub-set resources to enhance the process, the step of determining location including determining if the first resource is proximate the sub-set and the method further including the steps of determining if the first resource type is of the specific type, where the first resource type is of the specific type, the step of providing information including providing information useful in combining the first resource with the sub-set to perform the process. 62. The method of claim 61 wherein the step of providing information includes providing information indicating a re-juxtaposition of the sub-set resources to accommodate the first resource. 63. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that may cooperate in an environment to perform a process, the method comprising the steps of: associating a specific environment location with the process; determining the locations of set resources with respect to the specific location; and where at least one set resource is proximate the specific location, providing information related to the process. 64. The method of claim 63 wherein the step of associating includes associating a process zone with the process and the step of determining includes determining if at least one resource is within the process zone. 65. The method of claim 64 wherein the step of determining further includes, where a resource is within the process zone, determining if the resource is one of the set resources and, if the resource is one of the set resources, the step of providing information including providing information useable to configure the resource to perform at least a part of the process. 66. The method of claim 64 further including the steps of determining when at least one instance of each resource type in the resource set is located within the process zone and, when at least one instance of each resource type in the resource set is located within the process zone, the step of providing information including providing information useable to configure the instances of the resources within the zone to perform the process. 67. The method of claim 66 further including the step of configuring the resource instances in the process zone to perform the process in a manner consistent with the provided information. 68. The method of claim 67 wherein at least one of the resource set resources is a programmable resource and the step of configuring includes programming the programmable resource for controlling the other set resources to perform the process. 69. The method of claim 63 wherein the resource set includes at least first and second programmable resources linked via a network and wherein the step of providing process information includes programming at least a sub-set of the programmable resources to tag at least some data transmitted on the network as produced at specific locations within the environment. 70. The method of claim 69 wherein the step of programming further includes the step of programming at least a sub-set of the programmable resources to monitor network data for data tagged as produced at specific environment locations. 71. The method of claim 63 wherein the environment is an automated industrial environment and wherein the process is an automated industrial process and wherein the step of providing information includes providing automated process information. 72. A computer method for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least a first resource within the environment; determining the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to at least a sub-set of the set resources; determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to the sub-set of the set resources; and providing the process information. 73. The method of claim 72 further including the step of using the process information to configure the resource set to perform the process. 74. The method of claim 73 wherein the first resource includes a programmable resource and wherein the step of providing information includes programming the programmable resource. 75. The method of claim 74 wherein the programmable resource is linked to a network and the step of programming includes causing the programmable resource to tag data transmitted by the programmable resource onto the network as produced at the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to the sub-set resources. 76. The method of claim 75 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network and, wherein, the step of programming further includes the step of causing the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data produced by a resource at the relative juxtaposition of the first resource with respect to the other set resources. 77. The method of claim 72 wherein the process is an automated process and wherein the step of providing process information includes providing automated process information. 78. A computer system for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the system comprising: a position determiner for determining the physical location of the first resource within the environment; a database storing process information related to the resource set; a processor linked to the position determiner and the database and programmed to: determine if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identify process information in the database related to the resource set as a function of the location of the first resource; and provide the process information. 79. The system of claim 78 wherein the processor is further programmed to use the process information to configure the resource set to perform the process. 80. The system of claim 79 wherein the first resource includes a programmable resource and wherein the processor configured by programming the programmable resource. 81. The system of claim 80 wherein the first resource may be one of several different types and wherein the processor is further programmed to identify the type of the first resource and the processor configures by programming the first resource as a function of the type of the first resource. 82. The system of claim 81 wherein the programmable resource is at a first physical location within the environment and is linked to a network and wherein the processor configures by programming the resource to tag data transmitted by the programmable resource onto the network as produced at the first location. 83. The system of claim 82 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network and, wherein, the processor configures by further programming the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data produced at the first location. 84. The system of claim 80 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource and the set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the first programmable resource via a network and wherein the processor configures by programming at least a sub-set of the programmable resources to tag at least some data transmitted on the network as produced at specific locations within the environment. 85. The system of claim 84 wherein the processor further configures by programming at least a sub-set of the programmable resources to monitor network data for data tagged as produced at specific environment locations. 86. The system of claim 80 wherein the processor configures by programming at least a sub-set of the first resource and the other set resources as a function of the location of the first resource. 87. The system of claim 80 wherein the process includes a plurality of sub-processes and wherein the processor configures by identifying a first sub-process to be performed by the programmable resource and providing a first sub-process program to the programmable resource. 88. The system of claim 87 wherein the programmable resource is linked to a network and wherein the processor configures by causing data produced by the programmable resource to be tagged as associated with the first sub-process prior to transmitting the data onto the network. 89. The system of claim 88 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource and wherein the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network and wherein the processor further configures by programming the second programmable processor to monitor the network for data associated with the first sub-process and to consume at least some of the data associated with the first sub-process. 90. The system of claim 79 wherein the resource set includes a programmable resource linkable to the first resource and wherein the processor configures by providing program code to the programmable resource. 91. The system of claim 90 wherein the first resource is at a first physical location within the environment, the programmable resource is at a second physical location within the environment and is linked to a network, and, wherein, the processor configures by programming the programmable resource to tag data transmitted by the programmable resource onto the network as produced at a producer location wherein the producer location is one of the first and second locations. 92. The system of claim 90 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the first programmable resource via the network and, wherein, the processor configures by further programming the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data produced at the producer location. 93. The system of claim 79 wherein the programmable resource is at a first physical location within the environment, the resource set includes a second resource located at a second physical location within the environment, the first and second resources are linked via a network, the second resource generates at least some data tagged to indicate that the data is produced at the second location and, wherein, the processor configures by programming the programmable resource to monitor network data for data produced at the second location and to consume at least some of the network data produced at the second location. 94. The system of claim 79 wherein the processor provides process information by providing linking information indicating how the first resource should be linked to the other set resources to perform the process. 95. The system of claim 94 further including an interface and wherein the processor provides information by providing at least a sub-set of the information via the interface. 96. The system of claim 94 wherein the processor provides process information by providing commissioning information indicating how the resource set including the first resource should be commissioned to perform the process. 97. The system of claim 78 wherein the processor further identifies characteristics of the first resource and wherein the processor provides information based on the location and the characteristics of the first resource. 98. The system of claim 78 wherein the processor provides process information by providing juxtaposition information indicating how the first resource should be juxtaposed with respect to the other set resources to perform the process. 99. The system of claim 98 wherein the processor further monitors set resource juxtapositions and indicates when the set resource relative juxtapositions are incorrect. 100. The system of claim 78 wherein the location determiner includes at least a receiver within the environment and a transmitter on the first resource that transmits information from the transmitter to the receiver that can be used to identify the first resource location. 101. The system of claim 100 wherein the receiver includes a plurality of access points, each access point including at least a receiver. 102. The system of claim 78 wherein the location determiner determines the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to at least one other set resource. 103. A computer system for providing information related to a set of resources that cooperate in an environment to facilitate a process, the system comprising: a location determiner for determining the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to at least a sub-set of the set resources; a processor for: determining if the first resource is one of the set resources; if the first resource is one of the set resources, identifying process information related to the resource set as a function of the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to the sub-set of the set resources; and providing the process information. 104. The system of claim 103 wherein the processor further uses the process information to configure the resource set to perform the process. 105. The system of claim 104 wherein the first resource includes a programmable resource and wherein the processor configures by programming the programmable resource. 106. The system of claim 105 wherein the programmable resource is linked to a network and wherein the processor configures by causing the programmable resource to tag data transmitted by the programmable resource onto the network as produced at the relative juxtaposition of the first resource to the sub-set resources. 107. The system of claim 106 wherein the programmable resource is a first programmable resource, the resource set includes at least a second programmable resource linked to the network and, wherein, the processor further configures by causing the second programmable resource to monitor the network for at least some data produced by a resource at the relative juxtaposition of the first resource with respect to the other set resources. 