The specification and drawings present a new method, system and software product for and apparatus for generating a robotic validation system for a robot design. The robotic validation system for the robot design of a robotic system is automatically generated by converting a robot design into a generic robotic description using a predetermined format, then generating a control system from the generic robotic description and finally updating robot design parameters of the robotic system with an analysis tool using both the generic robot description and the control system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating a validation system to validate a robot design of a robotic system, comprising: automatically converting a robot design into a generic robotic description using a predetermined format; automatically generating a control system from the generic robotic description; and updating robot design parameters of said robotic system with an analysis tool using said generic robot description and said control system; wherein updating the robot design parameters is performed at run time allowing for variations in motion of the robotic system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said robot design is loaded from robot design software. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot design comprises at least one of: a hardware design, an electronic design, and surface properties. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said analysis tool provide a simulation and said simulation is at least one of: a kinematic simulation, a dynamic simulation, a terrain simulation. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said predetermined format is at least one of: an extensible markup language (XML), and a text based format. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic description comprises at least one of: a model of the environment, and sensor models. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said control system comprises at least one of: a kinematic component, a dynamic component, an adaptation feature for avoiding self-collisions and collisions with the environment, and an adaptation feature to control deforming links and avoid collisions with said deforming links. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic system comprises at least one feature out of: one or more articulated manipulators with one or more rigid or deforming links having a fixed base, one or more articulated mobile mechanisms with one or more rigid or deforming links, a bifurcating kinematic structure, and a closed kinematic structure. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said generating the robotic validation is provided using at least one of: network communications, and network communications over Internet. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic system is controlled using at least one of: network communications; and network communications over Internet. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said control system is established using at least one of: network communications; and network communications over Internet. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic system is used for at least one application out of: space applications, military applications, agricultural applications, medical applications, domestic applications, mining applications, and agricultural applications. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said updating robot design parameters comprises calculating updated robotic parameters by said analysis tool using at least one of: Monte Carlo analysis, parametric analysis, and parameter-optimization analysis; wherein the Monte Carlo analysis is performed interactively in real time and the parametric analysis is performed interactively during run time. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said updating robot design parameters comprises using automatically said updated robotic parameters calculated by the analysis tool to improve the design of the robotic system by the design tool. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein said updated robotic parameters are provided to a design tool for improving the design of the robotic system by the design tool. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said general robotic description comprises at least one of the following features: shapes, links, manipulators, stated systems, mechanisms with generic joint articulation comprising sliding, rotational, elliptical, or spherical articulations, and automatic simplification of the hardware design comprising physical dimensions, surface properties, kinematics properties or dynamics properties. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said control system utilizes, at least in part, a Jacobian-based algorithm to control at least one of a velocity and a position of the robotic system. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said control system is automatically generated from the generic robotic description using a velocity control framework using the following algorithm: V=J(q){dot over (q)}*, wherein V is an m-length vector representing a motion of end effectors; q is a vector of joint positions, q is an n-length vector formed by augmenting a derivative vector {dot over (q)} with linear and angular velocities of a base link of said robotic system; and J is an m.times.n Jacobian as a function of q, wherein .times..function..alpha..times..times..times. ##EQU00003## wherein N.sub.j is an n.times.(n-m) set of vectors that spans a null space of J, .alpha. is a scalar, W(q) is a matrix function, and F(q) is a vector function. 19. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage structure embodying computer program code thereon for execution by a computer processor with said computer program code, wherein said computer program code comprises instructions for performing a method comprising: automatically converting a robot design into a generic robotic description using a predetermined format; automatically generating a control system from the generic robotic description; and updating robot design parameters of said robotic system with an analysis tool using said generic robot description and said control system; wherein updating the robot design parameters is performed at run time allowing for variations in motion of the robotic system. 20. A robotic validation system for a robot design of a robotic system performed automatically, comprising: a design software interpreter, for converting the robot design into a generic robotic description using a predetermined format, and for generating a control system from the generic robotic description; and an analysis tool, for updating robot design parameters of said robotic system using said generic robot description and said control system, wherein updating the robot design parameters is performed at run time allowing for variations in motion of the robotic system. 21. The robotic validation system of claim 20, wherein said design software interpreter is a client node of a network. 22. The robotic validation system of claim 20, comprising an analysis software interpreter, for converting the generic robotic description to a native format of said analysis tool. 23. The robotic validation system of claim 22, wherein said analysis software interpreter is a client node of a network. 24. The robotic validation system of claim 20, comprising a design tool, for reading a file describing the robot design in a native format for converting said robot design to said generic robotic description using said predetermined format. 25. The robotic validation system of claim 24, comprising a post-processing tool, for writing results of said updating robot design parameters to improve the design of the robotic system by the design tool. 