A parallel processing, fluid handling apparatus for concurrent temperature controlled preparation of a plurality of cell fraction samples adapted to be used for electron microscopic viewing. The apparatus comprises generally a sample receiving member, a fluid handling means, and a separation means. The sample receiving member comprises a plurality of discrete apertures each adapted to receive a biological sample therein. The fluid handling means for inserting and removing fluid to and from the plurality of apertures substantially in parallel, permits the biological samples to be processed substantially in parallel by the insertion and removal of processing fluid. The separation means permits the parallel isolated separation of the post-processing samples. The post-processing samples are adapted to be polymerized in embedding solution and removed from the sample receiving member.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A parallel processing apparatus for concurrent temperature controlled preparation of a plurality of biological samples adapted to be viewed by an electron microscope, the apparatus comprising: a modular core mechanism of plates stackable together in both a first and a second selected configuration, said plates including a filter plate having opposed first and second sides, a pumping plate engaged to the first side of the filter plate, and one of a fluid transfer plate and a sample receiving plate removably engaged to a second side of the filter plate, said first configuration defining said fluid transfer plate being engaged to said second side of the filter plate and said second configuration defining said sample receiving plate being engaged to said second side of the filter plate in place of the fluid transfer plate; the filter plate having a plurality of discrete open-ended processing channels extending therethrough between a plurality of first apertures defined in the first of the filter plate and a plurality of second apertures defined in the second side thereof, a sample deposition member transversely extending through each of said processing channels between said opposed first and second apertures for receiving and supporting the biological samples thereon, said sample deposition member allowing fluid flow therethrough in at least a direction towards the first side of the filter plate, said processing channels being individually sealed and isolated from each other such that fluid flow communication therebetween is prevented; the pumping plate having at least one nozzle disposed in sealed communication with said first apertures defined in said first side of the filter plate, said nozzle providing a selected one of forced fluid flow and a vacuum to said processing channels, said vacuum providing random sampling deposition of the biological samples onto the sample deposition member and drawing fluids therethrough for evacuation from the processing channels; the sample receiving plate including a plurality of closed-bottom wells therein, each well having an opening disposable in sealed communication with each of said second apertures in the second side of the filter plate when the sample receiving plate is engaged thereto; the fluid transfer plate defining a plurality of fluid flow channels extending therethrough, said fluid flow channels being individually sealed and isolated from each other such that fluid flow communication therebetween is prevented, each of said fluid flow channels being disposed in fluid flow communication with each corresponding one of said processing channels when the fluid transfer plate is engaged to the second side of the filter plate; and a releasable plate interconnection device retaining said plates of the core mechanism fastened together when the plate interconnection device is disposed in a fastening mode and being actuable to switch to a releasing mode wherein at least one of said plates is disengaged from the core mechanism and removable therefrom. 2. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising an automated robotic assembly including a robotic arm having a plate engaging member being releasably engageable to at least one of said plates of the core mechanism, the robot arm being displaceable to manipulate said at least one of said plates. 3. The apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said at least one of said manipulated plates is the said transfer plate, the fluid transfer plate being movable from the core mechanism by the robotic arm when the plate interconnection device is disposed in said releasing mode and replaceable by said sample receiving plate such as to convert the core mechanism from said first configuration to said second configuration. 4. The apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein plate engaging member of the robotic arm is rotatable at least about 180 degrees about a substantially horizontal axis, wherein the core mechanism is invertable by the robotic arm when the releasable plate interconnection device is disposed in said fastening mode. 5. The apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein the automated robotic assembly includes a fluid handling means for at least one of inserting and aspirating processing fluid into and out of the processing channels via said fluid flow channels of the fluid transfer plate. 6. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the fluid handling means includes at least one needle manifold having multiple needles. 7. The apparatus as defined in claim 6, wherein each needle of said needle manifold is independently selectable and controlled by the fluid handling means. 8. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the plate interconnection device is defined within the core mechanism. 9. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the plate interconnection device is biased in the fastening mode. 10. The apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein the plate interconnection device includes an electromagnetic coupling system. 11. The apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein said electromagnetic coupling system includes at least one permanent magnet disposed in said filter plate and at least one corresponding electromagnetic coupling element disposed in at least each of said fluid transfer plate and said sample receiving plate. 12. The apparatus as defined in claim 11, when said pumping plate includes at least one electromagnetic coupling elements therein corresponding to said permanent magnet of said filter plate. 13. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a temperature control device in communication with said core mechanism. 14. The apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein the temperature control device includes a thermoelectrically temperature controlled incubation member. 15. The apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein said incubation member includes a cooling platform having a size corresponding substantially to said plates of the core mechanism, said plates being receivable on the cooling platform. 16. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the sample receiving plate includes a removable multiple-well plate releasably engaged therein, the multiple-well plate comprising said plurality of closed-bottom wells therein. 17. The apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein the closed-bottomed wells each contain polymerized embedding solution for embedding the biological samples therein after processing within the processing channels by fluids inserted therein. 18. The apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein the plate engaging member is displaceable by the robotic arm relative to at least four axes to provide at least four-axis motion. 19. The apparatus as defined in claim 18, wherein the plate engaging member is displaceable by the robotic arm relative to five axes to provide five-axis motion. 20. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the pumping plate comprises a plurality of said nozzles each disposed in sealed communication with one of said processing channels of the filter plate. 21. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the forced fluid flow provided by said nozzle includes pressurized air, said pressurized air having a pressure sufficient to transfer the cell fraction samples from said filter plate to said wells of said sample receiving plate. 22. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the sample deposition member includes a filter screen through which fluids can flow. 23. The apparatus as defined in claim 22, wherein the sample deposition member further includes a membrane superimposed on the filter screen, the membrane receiving the biological samples thereon. 24. The apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein the membrane of the sample deposition member is dissolvable. 