Apparatuses and methods of processing a substrate. The apparatus includes a wet-cleaning chamber, a drying chamber, and a substrate transferring chamber which transfers a substrate to and from the wet-cleaning chamber and the drying chamber. The drying chamber is one of a supercritical drying chamber or a low pressure drying chamber. The wet-cleaning chamber is one of a single-wafer cleaning chamber, a horizontal spinning chamber, a megasonic wet-cleaning chamber, or a horizontal spinning chamber having acoustic waves transmitted to the substrate.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: a wet-cleaning chamber; a supercritical drying chamber; and a substrate transferring chamber transferring a substrate to and from the wet-cleaning chamber and the supercritical drying chamber; wherein the wet-cleaning chamber and the supercritical drying chamber are coupled to the substrate transferring chamber; wherein the supercritical drying chamber includes a slit of a height to allow for the substrate to be transferred in and out from the transferring chamber, and a slit valve to seal the supercritical drying chamber. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a single-wafer cleaning chamber. 3. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a megasonic wet-cleaning chamber. 4. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a horizontal spinning chamber. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a horizontal spinning chamber having sonic waves sent to a fluid that cleans the substrate. 6. An apparatus as in claim 1 further comprising an inspection chamber. 7. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the supercritical drying chamber is coupled to a preparation chamber which delivers a drying gas to the supercritical drying chamber, and which causes the drying gas to transition into a supercritical fluid. 8. An apparatus as in claim 7 wherein the preparation chamber is coupled to a compressor and a heating element. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1 further comprising a waste container coupling to the supercritical drying chamber. 10. An apparatus as in claim 9 further comprising: a filter coupling to the waste container; and a preparation chamber coupling to the supercritical drying chamber. 11. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the supercritical drying chamber further couples to a compressor and a heating element. 12. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the substrate transferring chamber includes a robot which handles the substrate. 13. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber and the supercritical drying chamber are mounted on a horizontal platform which houses the substrate handing chamber. 14. An apparatus as in claim 13 wherein the horizontal platform further comprises a film deposition chamber. 15. An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein the film deposition chamber is one of a chemical vapor deposition chamber and a physical deposition chamber. 16. An apparatus comprising; a wet-cleaning chamber; a single-wafer drying chamber for microscopically drying a porous film having residual liquids left in said porous film after said porous film is macroscopically dried in said wet-cleaning chamber; and a substrate transferring chamber transferring a substrate having the porous film deposited thereon to and from the wet-cleaning chamber and the single wafer drying chamber; wherein the wet-cleaning chamber and the single-wafer drying chamber are coupled to the substrate transferring chamber; wherein the single-wafer drying chamber includes a slit of a height to allow for the substrate to be transferred in and out from the transferring chamber, and a slit valve to seal the single-wafer drying chamber. 17. An apparatus as in claim 16 wherein the single-wafer drying chamber is a supercritical drying chamber. 18. An apparatus as in claim 16 wherein the single-wafer drying chamber is a low-pressure chamber. 19. A apparatus comprising: a wet-cleaning chamber; a low-pressure chamber; and a substrate transferring chamber transferring a substrate to and from the wet-cleaning chamber and the low-pressure chamber: wherein the wet-cleaning chamber and the low-pressures chamber are coupled to the substrate transferring chamber; wherein the low-pressure chamber includes a sealable slit of a height sufficient for the substrate to be transferred in and out therefrom; wherein the low-pressure chamber includes a substrate supporter coupled to a hydraulic mechanism to raise and lower the substrate supporter, and wherein lowering the substrate supporter opens the slit and raising the substrate supporter seals the slit. 20. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a single-wafer cleaning chamber. 21. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a megasonic wet-cleaning chamber. 22. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a horizontal spinning chamber. 23. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber is a horizontal spinning chamber having sonic waves sent to a non-device side of the substrate. 24. An apparatus as in claim 19 further comprising an inspection chamber. 25. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the low-pressure chamber has a pressure lower than 10 Torr. 26. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the substrate transferring chamber includes a robot which handles the substrate. 27. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein the wet-cleaning chamber and the low-pressure chamber are mounted on a horizontal platform which houses the substrate transferring chamber. 28. An apparatus as in claim 27 wherein the horizontal platform further comprises a film deposition chamber. 29. An apparatus as in claim 28 wherein the film deposition chamber is one of a chemical vapor deposition chamber and a physical deposition chamber. 30. An apparatus as in claim 19 wherein a substrate in the low pressure chamber is heated up to a temperature ranging from about 100.degree. C. to 200.degree. C. 