An interface which allows a surgeon to operate multiple surgical devices from a single input device. The input device may be a foot pedal that provides output signals to actuate a number of different surgical devices. The surgical devices may include a robotic arm, a laser, an electrocautery device, or an operating table. The interface has an input channel that is coupled to the input device and a plurality of output channels that are coupled to the surgical devices. The interface also has a select input channel which can receive input commands to switch the input channel to one of the output channels. The select channel may be coupled to a speech interface that allows the surgeon to select one of the surgical devices with a voice command. The surgeon can operate any device by providing an input command which switches the input channel to the desired output channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for coupling a mechanical input device to a first surgical apparatus and a second surgical apparatus, comprising: an interface that has an input channel configured to be coupled to a mechanical input device, a first output channel configured to be coupled to a first surgical apparatus and a second output channel configured to be coupled to a second surgical apparatus, the interface having a select channel that switches the input channel between the first output channel and the second output channel; and a speech interface receiving voice commands and providing command signals to the select channel to control the switching of the input channel between the first output channel and the second output channel such that when the mechanical input device is coupled to the input channel, the mechanical input device is operable to control either the first surgical apparatus or the second surgical apparatus depending on the command signals from the speech interface. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the interface includes a multiplexer. 3. The device of claim 1, further comprising a central processing unit which is coupled to the speech interface and the select channel, the central processing unit operable to provide an indication of which output channel the input channel is switched to. 4. A surgical system, comprising: a first surgical apparatus; a second surgical apparatus; a mechanical input device; an interface that has an input channel coupled to the mechanical input device, a first output channel coupled to the first surgical apparatus and a second output channel coupled to the second surgical apparatus, the interface having a select channel that switches the input channel between the first output channel and the second output channel; and a speech interface receiving voice commands and providing command signals to the select channel to control the switching of the input channel between the first output channel and the second output channel such that the mechanical input device is operable to control either the first surgical apparatus or the second surgical apparatus depending on the command signals from the speech interface. 5. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the mechanical input device is a foot pedal. 6. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the first surgical apparatus is an electrocautery device. 7. The surgical system of claim 6, wherein the second surgical apparatus is a robotic arm. 8. The surgical system of claim 7, wherein the mechanical input device is a foot pedal. 9. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the first surgical apparatus is a robotic arm. 10. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the first surgical apparatus is a laser. 11. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the first surgical apparatus is an operating table. 12. A method for operating a first surgical apparatus and a second surgical apparatus from a mechanical input device, comprising the steps of: a) providing an interface that has an input channel coupled to a mechanical input device, a first output channel coupled to a first surgical apparatus, and a second output channel coupled to a second surgical apparatus; b) switching the interface in response to a first voice command so that the input channel is coupled to the first output channel and the mechanical input device controls the first surgical device; and c) switching the interface in response to a second voice command so that the input channel is coupled to the second output channel and the mechanical input device controls the second surgical device. 13. A method comprising: receiving a control input from a mechanical input device; receiving a voice selection command; converting the voice selection command to a command signal; and switching, responsive to the command signal, the control input to one of a first surgical apparatus or a second surgical apparatus to allow for control of the respective surgical apparatus using the mechanical input device. 