Devices and methods for performing assays on materials, particularly biological materials, are provided. The devices and methods make use of self-sealing members, which can be applied to a flat surface to form wells to facilitate immobilization of materials on the flat surface, then removed to yield a flat surface that facilitates the performance of processes on and/or detection of the immobilized material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of arraying a biological material comprising: placing a removable member on a base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the removable member on the base plate, the removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the base plate, further defining a plurality of orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of orifices on sides of the orifices, the removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, it defines a plurality of wells therewith; immobilizing at least one biological material on regions of the base plate exposed by orifices of the removable member; removing the removable member from the base plate such that the biological material is arrayed on the base plate in an array that corresponds to an array defined by the orifices. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising attaching a supportive member on an upper surface of the removable member. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein removing the removable member comprises removing the removable member while the supportive member is attached thereon. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising creating a channel defined at least partially by the removable member. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the base plate is a first base plate and the removable member is a first removable member; and creating a channel comprising placing a second base plate and a second removable member in self-sealing contact with the second base plate adjacent the first removable member such that an upper surface of the second removable member contacts the upper surface of the first removable member for defining the channel. 6. A method of arraying a biological material comprising: placing a first removable member on a base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the first removable member on the base plate, the first removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the base plate, further defining a plurality of first orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of first orifices on sides of the first orifices, the first removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, it defines a plurality of first wells therewith; immobilizing at least one biological material on regions of the base plate exposed by the first orifices; removing the first removable member from the base plate such that the biological material is arrayed on the base plate in an array that corresponds to an array defined by the first orifices; and placing a second removable member on the base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the second removable member on the base plate, the second removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the base plate, further defining a plurality of second orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of second orifices on sides of the orifices, the second removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, it defines a plurality of second wells therewith, the second wells being arrayed such that the biological material arrayed on the base plate is within the second wells. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein each of the first wells is substantially identical to each of the second wells. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein a region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices defines an area having a different size from a region of the base plate exposed by one of the first orifices. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices encompasses a plurality of regions of the base plate exposed by corresponding ones of the first orifices. 10. A method of arraying a biological material comprising: placing a first removable member on a base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the first removable member on the base plate, the first removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the base plate, further defining a plurality of first orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of first orifices on sides of the first orifices, the first removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, it defines a plurality of first wells therewith; immobilizing at least one biological material on regions of the base plate exposed by the first orifices; placing a second removable member on the first removable member for establishing self-sealing contact of the second removable member on the first removable member, the second removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the first removable member, further defining a plurality of second orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of second orifices on sides of the orifices, the removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the first removable member, it defines a plurality of second wells therewith. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein a region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices defines an area having a different size from a region of the base plate exposed by one of the first orifices. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices encompasses a plurality of regions of the base plate exposed by corresponding ones of the first orifices. 13. A method for arraying a biological material comprising: immobilizing at least one biological material on regions of a base plate, the regions defining an array; placing a removable member on the base plate for establishing self-sealing contact of the removable member on the base plate, the removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the base plate, further defining a plurality of orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of orifices on sides of the orifices, the removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the base plate, it defines a plurality of wells therewith, the wells being arrayed such that the biological material arrayed on the base plate is within the wells. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the removable member is a first removable member, the plurality of orifices are a plurality of first orifices and the plurality of wells are a plurality of first wells, the method further comprising placing a second removable member on the first removable member for establishing self-sealing contact of the second removable member on the first removable member, the second removable member being adapted to repeatedly self seal on the first removable member, further defining a plurality of second orifices therein and having walls bounding respective ones of the plurality of second orifices on sides of the orifices, the removable member further being configured such that, when it is placed in self-sealing contact with the first removable member, it defines a plurality of second wells therewith. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein a region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices defines an area having a different size from a region of the base plate exposed by one of the first orifices. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices encompasses a plurality of regions of the base plate exposed by corresponding ones of the first orifices. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the region of the base plate exposed by one of the second orifices encompasses a plurality of the regions defining an array of the at least one biological material. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising treating the base plate to enhance immobilization of kinase substrates thereon. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed self-assembled monoloayer (SAM), such that binding of kinase substrates is enhanced in discrete areas and reduced or eliminated in others. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with a solution of mixed SAM, such that specific binding of kinase substrates in desired orientations is enhanced and non-specific binding of kinase substrates is reduced or eliminated. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein treating comprises treating the base plate with mixed SAM comprising about 0.1 to 20% maleimide-terminal groups in a background of tri(ethylene glycol) terminal groups. 