A method utilizing a lithography system comprises a lithography patterning chamber, a wafer exchange chamber separated from the lithography patterning chamber by a first gate valve, and at least one alignment load-lock separated from the wafer exchange chamber by a second gate valve. The alignment load-lock includes an alignment stage that aligns a wafer during pump-down. The alignment load-lock can be uni-directional or bi-directional. The lithography system can include one or multiple alignment load-locks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: (a) aligning a substrate with respect to an alignment stage in an alignment load-lock; (b) transporting the aligned stage and substrate into a substrate exchange chamber; and (c) transporting the aligned stage and substrate between the substrate exchange chamber and a lithography patterning chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) performing a pump-down to create a vacuum within the alignment load-lock. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said step (d) is performed concurrently with step (a). 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) performing lithography patterning in the lithography patterning chamber on the substrate; (e) returning the aligned stage and substrate to the alignment load-lock; and (f) removing the substrate from the stage. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising, (g) venting the alignment load-lock. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said steps (f) and (g) are performed concurrently. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises: (a1) placing the substrate on supports within the alignment load-lock; (a2) detecting a location and an orientation of the substrate on the supports within the alignment load-lock; (a3) moving the stage with respect to the substrate to align the substrate with respect to the stage; and (a4) securing the substrate to the stage. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said step (a2) comprises: detecting the location and the orientation of the substrate on the supports within the alignment load-lock with a detector located outside of the alignment load-lock. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said step (a3) comprises: moving the stage upwards until it lifts the substrate up and off of the supports. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the chuck is an electrostatic stage, and said step (a4) comprises: charging the electrostatic stage. 11. A method of aligning a substrate within an alignment load-lock, comprising: (a) placing the substrate on supports within the alignment load-lock; (b) detecting a location and an orientation of the substrate on the supports within the alignment load-lock; (c) moving a chuck with respect to the substrate to align the substrate with respect to the chuck; and (d) securing the substrate to the chuck. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step (b) comprises: detecting the location and the orientation of the substrate on the supports within the alignment load-lock with a detector outside the alignment load-lock. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said step (c) comprises: moving the chuck upwards until it lifts the substrate up and off of the supports. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the chuck is an electrostatic chuck, and said step (c) comprises: charging the electrostatic chuck. 