An apparatus is provided for accessing, controlling and monitoring a programable logic controller with a network client having a conventional web browser. The apparatus includes an archive, an interface, and a library. The archive provides for compiling an application written in code supported by the web browser. The interface is responsive to the application for establishing a connection between the controller and the network client. Further, the library is responsive to the application for supporting communication between the controller and the network client upon establishing a connection therebetween.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interface for communicating between a controller and a network client having a conventional web browser comprising: an archive for compiling an application written in code supported by the web browser; the interface responsive to the application for establishing a connection between the controller and the network client; a subscription list for polling the controller for data items requested by the network client; and, a plurality of JAVAbeans responsive to the application for supporting communication between the controller and the network client upon establishing a connection therebetween. 2. The interface of claim 1, further comprising a client handler operably attached to the network client and the controller for maintaining the connection between the controller and the network client. 3. The interface of claim 2, further comprising a value adaptor operably attached to the network client for dispatching unsolicited data messages to the network client. 4. The interface of claim 3, further comprising a server handler operably attached to the value adaptor for providing unsolicited data updates to the value adaptor. 5. The interface of claim 1, further comprising an update queue operably attached to the subscription list for providing a buffering of the data updates. 6. An interface for communicating between a controller and a network client having a conventional web browser, comprising: an archive for compiling an application written in conventional code supported by the web browser; the interface responsive to the application for establishing a connection between the controller and the network client; a subscription list for polling the controller for data items requested by the network client; and, a library responsive to the application for supporting data requests between the controller and the network client upon establishing a connection therebetween, the library including a client handler operably attached to the network client and the controller for maintaining the connection between the controller and the network client. 7. The interface of claim 6, further comprising a value adaptor operably attached to the network client for dispatching unsolicited data messages to the network client. 8. The interface of claim 7, further comprising a server handler operably attached to the value adaptor for providing unsolicited data updates to the value adaptor. 9. The interface of claim 6, further comprising an update queue operably attached to the subscription list for providing a buffering of the data updates. 10. An interface for communicating between a controller and a network client having a conventional web browser, comprising: an archive for compiling an application written in conventional code supported by the web browser; the interface responsive to the application for establishing a connection between the controller and the network client; a subscription list for polling the controller for data items requested by the network client; and, a library responsive to the application for supporting data requests between the controller and the network client upon establishing a connection therebetween, the library including a client handler operably attached to the network client and the controller for maintaining the connection between the controller and the network client and a value adaptor operably attached to the network client for dispatching unsolicited data messages to the network client. 11. The interface of claim 10, further comprising a server handler operably attached to the value adaptor for providing unsolicited data updates to the value adaptor. 12. The interface of claim 10, further comprising an update queue operably attached to the subscription list for providing a buffering of the data updates. 13. An application interface for communicating between a controller and a network client having a conventional web browser, the application interface comprising: an archive for storing a class file utilized to compile an application, the application being supported by the web browser; a subscription list for polling the controller for data items requested by the network client; and, a library responsive to the application for supporting communication between the controller and the network client upon establishing a connection therebetween. 14. The application interface of claim 13 wherein the library facilitates the creation of a web page interactive with the application. 15. A method for facilitating communication between a controller and a network client having a web browser, the method comprising the steps of: providing an archive containing a plurality of classes for writing an application; providing a subscription list for polling the controller for data items requested by the network client; providing a library, the library being responsive to the application for supporting communication between the controller and the network client upon establishing a connection therebetween; and, creating a web page by utilizing the application, the web page being interactive with the application. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising loading the web page on the controller, wherein the web page can be monitored by the network client. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising loading the web page on a server, the server being operably connected to the controller, wherein the web page can be monitored by the network client. 