In an apparatus and a method for modeling momentary conditions of a medical object dependent on at least one time-variable body function, at least one further status value of the time-variable body function is calculated on the basis of the geometry of the medical object that is acquired from data obtained with a medical imaging method for at least one status value of the time-variable body function, and the geometry of the medical object is made available approximately synchronously with the currently measured status value of the time-variable body function.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for modeling momentary conditions of a medical object dependent on at least one time-variable body function, comprising the steps of: from data acquired by a medical imaging method, calculating in a computer a first geometry of a medical object for at least one first status value of a time-variable body function; calculating a plurality of second geometries of said medical object in a computer based on said first geometry of said medical object for a plurality of second status values of said time-variable body function, said second status values being different from said first status value; and receiving a currently measured status value of said body function and making one of said second geometries calculated for one of said second status values approximating said currently measured status value. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising employing data constituting a three-dimensional representation of said medical object as said data obtained by a medical imaging method for calculating said first geometry. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising employing data constituting a two-dimensional representation of said medical object as said data obtained by a medical imaging method for calculating said first geometry. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of calculating said second geometry comprises calculating said second geometry by interpolation from two existing geometries of said medical object. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of calculating said second geometry comprising calculating said second geometry from a calculated model representing physiological behavior of said medical object. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of calculating said second geometry comprises calculating said second geometry by morphing from an existing geometry of said medical object. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising employing cardiac activity as said time-variable body function. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising employing respiration as said time-variable body function. 9. An apparatus for modeling momentary conditions of a medical object dependent on at least one time-variable body function, comprising: a data analysis unit supplied with data acquired by a medical imaging method for calculating a first geometry of a medical object for at least one first status value of a time-variable body function; a modeling unit for calculating a plurality of second geometries of said medical object based on said first geometry of said medical object respectively for plurality of second status values of said time-variable body function, said second status value being different from said first status value; a reception unit which receives a currently measured status value of said body function; and a transmission unit, connected to said reception unit and to said modeling unit, which makes one of said second geometries, calculated for one of said second status values approximating said currently measured status value, available during said measurement of said status values of said time-variable body function. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said data analysis unit employs data constituting a three-dimensional representation of said medical object as said data obtained by a medical imaging method for calculating said first geometry. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said data analysis employs data constituting a two-dimensional representation of said medical object as said data obtained by a medical imaging method for calculating said first geometry. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said modeling unit calculates said second geometry by interpolation from two existing geometries of said medical object. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said modeling unit calculates said second geometry from a calculated model representing physiological behavior of said medical object. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said modeling unit calculates said second geometry by morphing from an existing geometry of said medical object. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said reception unit receives a signal representing cardiac activity as said time-variable body function. 16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said reception unit received a signal representing respiration as said time-variable body function. 17. A computer-readable medium encoded with a computer program to model momentary conditions of a medical object dependent on at least one time-variable body function, said computer program, when said computer-readable medium is loaded in a computerized apparatus, causing said computerized apparatus to calculate, from data acquired by a medical imaging method, a first geometry of a medical object for at least one first status value of a time-variable body function, and to calculate a plurality of second geometries of said medical object based on said first geometry of said medical object respectively for a plurality of second status values of said time-variable body function, said second status values being different from said first status value, and, upon obtaining a currently measured status value of said body function, to make one of said second geometries, calculated for one of said status values approximating said currently measured status value, available during said measurement of said status values of said time-variable body function. 