A motion system comprising a motion enabled device, an event source, and a motion services module. The motion enabled device performs motion operations based on motion commands. The event source transmits a predetermined motion message upon the occurrence of an event corresponding to the predetermined motion message. The motion message corresponds to a desired motion operation. The motion services module maps the motion message generated by the event source to at least one motion command corresponding to the desired motion operation. The motion services module then runs the at least one motion command on the motion enabled device such that the motion enable device performs the desired operation.
Claims We claim: 1. A motion system comprising: a motion enabled device that performs motion operations based on motion commands; an event source that generates a predetermined motion message in a first format upon an occurrence of an event corresponding to the predetermined motion message, where the motion message corresponds to a desired motion operation; a message generator for converting the predetermined motion message from the first format to a second format; a message receiver for converting the predetermined motion message from the second format to a third format; a motion services module for mapping the motion message in the third format to at least one motion command corresponding to the desired motion operation; whereby the motion services module runs the at least one motion command on the motion enabled device such that the motion enabled device performs the desired motion operation. 2. A motion system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a computer network, where the second format allows the predetermined motion message to be transmitted over the computer network. 3. A motion system as recited in claim 2, where the second format allows the predetermined motion message to be transmitted instantly over the computer network, network latencies notwithstanding. 4. A motion system as recited in claim 1, in which the first and third formats are the same. 