A data storage library having two inward facing storage arrays and two outward (i.e., back to back) facing arrays between the two inward facing arrays, such that an access device positioned to access one of the outward facing arrays can perform a rotation to be positioned to access one of the inward facing arrays. Thus a single access device can access all four arrays only by performing translations and rotations as necessary.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library, comprising: first and second arrays of storage cells, the storage cells in the first and second arrays being operable to receive data storage elements, the first and second arrays describing an interior space between the first and second arrays; and a third array of storage cells, the storage cells in the third array being operable to receive data storage elements, the third array being substantially located within the interior space and comprises two storage arrays arranged substantially back-to-back; wherein a robotic picker is translatable along a path, the path located within the interior space; and wherein the path has sections adjacent to each storage array of the library such that the robotic picker can access any storage array by translating to it along the path. 2. The library of claim 1, wherein when the robotic picker is positioned to access a storage element of the first array, it can rotate so as to access a storage element of the third array. 3. The library of claim 1, wherein the data storage elements are selected from the group consisting of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy disks, hard disks, and compact disks. 4. A data storage library, comprising: first and second arrays of storage cells, the storage cells in the first and second arrays being operable to receive data storage elements, the first and second arrays describing an interior space between the first and second arrays; and a third array of storage cells, the storage cells in the third array being operable to receive data storage element the third array being substantially located within the interior space and comprises two storage arrays arranged substantially back-to-back; wherein a robotic picker is translatable along a path, the path located within the interior space; wherein the path has sections adjacent to each storage array of the library such that the robotic picker can access any storage array translating to it along the path; and wherein the robotic picker has a bi-directional pass-through gripper that can access storage elements on two sides of an access device without rotating the access device. 5. A data storage library, comprising: a storage area having a plurality of storage arrays, the arrays capable of storing individual data storage elements; an access device capable of accessing data storage elements from the plurality of storage arrays, the access device being translatable along a path; first and second storage arrays within the plurality of storage arrays positioned on opposite sides of the storage area facing each other; and a third storage array within the plurality of storage arrays positioned substantially parallel to the first and second storage arrays and positioned between the first and second storage arrays, wherein by translation along the path the access device can access data storage elements in the first and second storage arrays; and wherein when the access device is positioned to access a storage element in the first storage array, the access device can perform a rotation to be positioned to access storage elements in the third storage array. 6. A data storage library, comprising: a storage area having a plurality of storage arrays, the arrays capable of storing individual data storage elements; an access device capable of accessing data storage elements from the plurality of storage arrays, the access device being translatable along a path; wherein the path passes continuously past each of the storage arrays of the plurality much that the access device can access any storage array of the plurality by translating along the path; and first and second storage arrays within the plurality of storage arrays positioned on opposite sides of the storage area facing each other; and a third storage array within the plurality of storage arrays positioned substantially parallel to the first and second storage arrays and positioned between the first and second storage arrays. 7. The library of claim 6, further comprising a fourth storage array of the plurality positioned substantially parallel to the second storage array and positioned between the second and the third storage arrays, such that when the access device is positioned to access a storage element in the second storage array, the access device can perform a rotation to be positioned to access storage elements in the fourth storage array. 8. The library of claim 6, further comprising a fourth storage array positioned substantially perpendicular to the first and second storage arrays such that the first, second, and fourth storage arrays form a U-shape. 9. The library of claim 6, wherein the path is a track upon which the access device moves. 10. The library of claim 6, wherein the access device has a bi-directional pass-through gripper that can access storage elements on two sides of the access device without rotating the access device. 11. The library of claim 6, wherein the data storage elements are selected from the group consisting of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy disks, hard disks, and compact disks. 12. A data storage library, comprising: first, second, third, and fourth storage strays for holding data storage elements, all four storage arrays being substantially parallel to one another; an access device capable of accessing data storage elements from the four storage arrays; wherein when the access device is positioned to access storage elements from the first storage array, the access device can be rotated substantially 180 degrees to access storage elements from the second storage array; and wherein when the access device is positioned to access storage elements from the third storage array, the access device can be rotated substantially 180 degrees to access storage elements from the fourth storage array. 13. The library of claim 12, wherein the first and fourth storage arrays each face inward forming a space between them, and the second and third storage arrays are positioned substantially back-to-back within the space facing outward. 14. The library of claim 12, further comprising a fifth storage array substantially perpendicular to the first and fourth storage arrays and positioned relative to the first and fourth storage arrays such that the first, fourth, and fifth storage arrays form a U-shape. 15. The library of claim 14, further comprising a sixth storage array substantially parallel to the fifth storage array such that the first, fourth, fifth, and sixth storage arrays comprise a four-sided shape. 16. The library of claim 12, wherein the access device translates along a single path which passes adjacent to all storage arrays in the library. 17. The Library of claim 12, wherein the data storage elements are selected from the group consisting of magnetic tape cartridges, floppy disks, hard disks, and compact disks. 