Device for automatically mounting and dismantling tools (10) on a robot (16), comprising means (1) for storing a number of identical fresh tools (10) and means (11) for centering one of these tools (10) in a position for automatic mounting on the robot (16), each tool (10) comprising an axial orifice for mounting on a rotating pin (15) provided on the robot (16).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for automatically mounting and dismantling tools on a robot, comprising means for storing a number of identical tools and means for centering a tool in a position for automatic mounting on the robot, each tool comprising an axial orifice for mounting on a rotating pin provided on the robot, wherein the storage means comprise a surface for supporting a stack of tools and means for centering the stack of tools, consisting of an axially movable cylindrical rod engaged in the axial orifices of the tools of the stack, said support surface comprising an orifice through which said pin passes, located on the axis of the stack of tools and connected by a slot to an edge of the support surface, such that the pin can be engaged in the orifice of the support surface and in the axial orifice of the lowermost tool of the stack by pushing back the cylindrical centering rod, and then moved transversely in said slot to remove this tool from the storage means. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the centering rod is guided in its axial movement with respect to the support surface for the tools, its movement toward said support surface being limited by stop means. 3. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the stop means comprise a spacer or wedge placed between an arm bearing the centering rod and the support surface for tools. 4. Device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the support surface for tools is mounted so as to slide in the tool stacking direction and cooperates with means that limit its movement in the direction away from the stack of tools. 5. The device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the storage means comprise a second support surface parallel to the first support surface and located under it, delimiting with it a housing for storing a partially worn tool, this second support surface comprising an axial orifice through which the pin passes, connected by a slot to an edge of this second support surface, the axial orifices and the slots of the two support surfaces being substantially identical and aligned. 6. The device as claimed in claim 5, which comprises a sensor for detecting the movement of the first surface with respect to the second surface for supporting tools. 7. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tools are brushes or grinding wheels. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lower end of the centering rod comprises means for centering on the end of said pin. 9. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the centering rod comprises a radial finger designed to engage between the two lowermost tools of the stack and moved by a means such as a pneumatic ram. 10. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the centering rod is mounted so as to pivot on the horizontal arm about a horizontal axis perpendicular to the rod and the arm. 11. A method of automatically mounting and dismantling tools on a robot by implementing the device as claimed in one of the preceding claims, which method consists in: a) bringing the pin of the robot into a predetermined position on the axis of the stack of tools; b) moving the pin along the axis to engage it in the axial orifice of the lowermost tool of the stack, by pushing back the centering rod; and c) moving the pin in the direction away from the stack of tools to disengage the tool from the storage means. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, which, to deposit a partially worn tool mounted on the pin, consists in: d) bringing this tool under the first support surface; and e) pushing the first support surface for tools using the tool mounted on the pin to move it away from the second support surface for tools; and f) moving the pin in a direction parallel to the support surfaces, to bring the tool between these support surfaces; and g) axially moving the pin, in the direction away from the stack of tools, to remove the partially worn tool and leave this tool between the two support surfaces. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12, which, to retrieve a partially worn tool, consists in: h) bringing the pin of the robot into a certain position under the two surfaces for supporting tools; i) moving the pin in the axis, to engage it on the partially worn tool; and j) moving the pin in a direction parallel to the support surfaces to disengage the tool from said support surfaces. 14. The method as claimed in claim 11, which, to check for the presence of a tool on the pin, consists in moving the first surface for supporting tools using the tool mounted on the pin of the robot and detecting this movement by means of a sensor. 15. The method as claimed in claim 11, which consists in determining beforehand six positions of the pin with respect to the storage means, comprising three high positions at the same level and three low positions at the same level, distributed over a rectangular path and aligned vertically in pairs, and in moving the pin by making it pass through these positions in order to mount a tool on the pin, check for the presence of the tool on the pin, and deposit and retrieve a partially worn tool between the surfaces for supporting tools. 