A robotic apparatus and system adapted to communicate with a wireless sensor. The apparatus may be either physical or virtual in nature and is adapted to communicate physical movements with a wireless sensor. Data received from the sensor and/or robotic apparatus may be reviewed in a real-time mode, or may be saved for review at a later time. In addition, the apparatus may be controlled through an operator that is in local or remote communication with the apparatus. The robotic system may include pre-programmed interactive platforms for enabling communication between a user and the apparatus in a dynamic mode. In addition, the system may allow an operator to program a game/story for use as an interactive platform. Accordingly, the apparatus and system provides a platform for rehabilitative exercise of a patient as well as an entertainment device.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic apparatus comprising: (a) a controller adapted to process a signal to an actuator; (b) a dynamic feedback control system between a sensor and said actuator, said control system having said sensor to sense input and to communicate a wireless signal of said sensor with said actuator; (c) said actuator adapted to receive said signal and to actuate a robotic part in response to said input exceeding a defined threshold; (d) wherein said sensor is a biometric sensor with input selected from the group consisting of: position, velocity, acceleration, force, and auditory. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising said robot having a sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said biometric sensor input is selected from the group consisting of: thermal, electrical, optical, scent, video, ultrasound, infra red, pressure, and electromagnetic radiation. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said robot sensor is a biometric sensor whose input is selected from the group consisting of: thermal, electrical, and optical. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said input of said user is physical. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor is secured to said user. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensor is secured to a console. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said robotic part is selected from the group consisting of: an arm assembly, a leg assembly, a head assembly, facial components, any actuator in communication with the controller, and combinations thereof. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a computer to store data received from said sensor. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said computer is mounted in a location selected from the group consisting of: internal to said robotic part, internal to said sensor, external to said robotic part, and combinations thereof. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an operator interface to modify configuration of said robotic part. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said operator interface includes a menu to select an interactive mode of operation between said robotic part and said user. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said operator interface allows an operator to evaluate said user input. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said operator interface is accessible from a location remote from said robotic part and said user. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said operator interface allows an operator to program an unique interactive mode of operation. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said robotic part is selected from the group consisting of: a physical apparatus, a virtual apparatus, and combinations thereof. 17. A method for controlling a robotic apparatus comprising: (a) reading biometric sensor data in communication with said apparatus; (b) processing said sensor data; (c) transmitting said sensor data over a wireless connection from said sensor to a receiver in communication with said apparatus; (d) parsing said sensor data; and (e) activating an actuator of said robot in response to said parsed data; and (f) interacting with said apparatus in a dynamic feedback control system, (g) wherein the step of processing said sensor data includes functions selected from the group consisting of: analog to digital converting, compressing said data, mapping said data, thresholding said data, and pattern recognition. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of providing feedback from said apparatus to a user. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said feedback is biometric feedback selected from the group consisting of: visual, tactile, auditory, and combinations thereof. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of processing said sensor data includes processing physical input signals. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of directly transmitting said sensor data to said apparatus for controlling said actuator of said apparatus in real-time. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of processing said sensor data includes functions selected from the group consisting of: filtering said data, and encrypting said data. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of parsing said sensor data includes functions selected from the group consisting of: analog to digital converting, de-encrypting said data, de-compressing said data, pattern recognition, mapping said data, filtering said data, thresholding said data, and combinations thereof. 24. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of recording said sensor data. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of retrieving said recorded sensor data and playing said data for activating select parts of said apparatus associated with said data. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the step of recording said sensor data includes saving said data in a medium in communication with an apparatus selected from the group consisting of: said sensor, said apparatus, a remote console, and combinations thereof. 27. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of accessing said sensor data from a remote location for evaluation of said data. 28. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of providing interactive communication between said sensor and said apparatus. 29. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of modifying configuration of said apparatus through an operator interface in wireless communication with said apparatus. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of modifying configuration of said apparatus includes modifications selected from the group consisting of: mapping of said sensor data from said operator interface to said apparatus, modifying thresholds and gains, selecting a platform for interactive communication attributes of said apparatus, and combinations thereof. 31. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of connecting said apparatus to a communication network. 32. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of connecting a remote console to a communication network. 33. An article comprising: a computer-readable signal-bearing medium; means in the medium for sending data over a wireless connection; means in the medium for communicating activation of a signal in a remote robotic apparatus; means in the medium for remotely setting configuration parameters of a biometric sensor and an actuator of said robotic apparatus; means in the medium for providing dynamic interaction between said robotic apparatus and a user in communication with said robotic apparatus, wherein said configuration parameters are selected from the group consisting of mapping, calibration, thresholding and gains. 34. The article of claim 33, wherein the medium is selected from the group consisting of: a recordable data storage medium, a modulated carrier signal, and combinations thereof. 35. The article of claim 33, wherein said means for communicating activation of a signal is a communication protocol. 36. The article of claim 33, wherein said means for remotely setting configuration parameters is a graphical user interface. 37. The article of claim 33, wherein said configuration parameters are selected from the group consisting of: mapping, calibration, thresholding and gains, and combinations thereof. 38. The article of claim 33, further comprising conducting assessment of signal data in said medium. 39. The article of claim 38, wherein said assessment is selected from a group consisting of: real-time and delayed. 40. The article of claim 33, further comprising providing remote interaction between an operator to said robotic apparatus in real-time in said medium. 41. The article of claim 40, wherein said remote interaction includes retrieving a set of instructions to provide interactive communication between said robotic apparatus and said user. 42. The article of claim 33, further comprising saving said data in said medium. 43. The article of claim 33, further comprising transmitting said data to a computer remote from said robotic apparatus. 44. The article of claim 43, further comprising conducting assessment of said data in said medium. 45. The article of claim 44, wherein said assessment is selected from a group consisting of: real-time local, real-time remote, manual, and embedded. 46. A wireless signal communication system comprising: (a) a sensor in remote communication with an actuator; (b) a power control module; (c) a transceiver; (d) a central processing unit; and (e) a dynamic control system between said sensor and said actuator adapted to enable control of said actuator in response to feedback communicated to said sensor, (f) wherein said sensor is a biometric sensor whose input is selected from a group consisting of: position, velocity, acceleration, force, and auditory. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein said transceiver and said central processing unit are adapted to receive and process sensor data and to transmit said data to said actuator. 48. The system of claim 46, further comprising a plurality of wireless sensors in communication with a single central processing unit. 49. The system of claim 48, wherein said plurality of sensors are physically connected. 50. The system of claim 46, further comprising a plurality of central processing units with each unit comprising a plurality of connected sensors. 51. The system of claim 46, wherein said actuator is selected from the group consisting of: virtual and physical, and combinations thereof. 52. The system of claim 46, wherein said transceiver and said central processing unit are connected to a communication network. 53. The system of claim 46, wherein said biometric sensor input is selected from a group consisting of: thermal, electrical, optical, scent, infra red, ultrasound, video, pressure, and electromagnetic radiation. 54. A method for controlling a robotic apparatus comprising: (a) reading biometric sensor data in communication with said apparatus; (b) processing said sensor data; (c) transmitting said sensor data to a receiver in communication with said apparatus; (d) parsing said sensor data; (e) activating an actuator of said robot in response to said parsed data; (f) interacting with said apparatus in a dynamic feedback control system; (g) wherein the step of interacting with said apparatus in a dynamic feedback control system is initiated by said robotic apparatus; and (h) wherein the step of processing said sensor data includes functions selected from the group consisting of: analog to digital converting, compressing said data, mapping said data, thresholding said data, and pattern recognition. 