The positioning, intervention, and/or exploration device has two endpieces (6a-6d, 7) and at least one cable (20) extending from one endpiece to the other (6a-6d, 7), it has at least two bellows (10) each fixed directly to both of the endpieces and it has means (12, 18) for modifying the pressure of a fluid in each of the bellows independently of the other bellows.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positioning, intervention, and/or exploration device having two endpieces (6a-6d, 7) and at least one cable (20) extending from one endpiece to the other (6a-6d, 7), said at least one cable (20) being movable relative to at least one of the endpieces (6b, 6d), the device being characterized in that it comprises at least two bellows (10) each fixed directly to the two endpieces, and means (12, 18) for modifying the pressure of a fluid in each of the bellows independently of the other bellows. 2. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that it comprises at least three bellows (10) each fixed to the two endpieces (6a-6d, 7). 3. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that said at least one cable (20) is fixed to one of the endpieces (6a-d, 7). 4. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that said at least one cable (20) is off-center relative to the longitudinal axis (8) of the device. 5. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that said at least one cable extends outside the bellows (10). 6. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes feed tubes (12) for feeding the bellows (10) with fluid, said at least one cable (20) passing outside the tubes (12). 7. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that said at least one cable (20) carries at least one block (36) suitable for coming into abutment against at least one of the endpieces during certain deformations of the device. 8. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that said at least one cable (20) carries at least two blocks (36) suitable for coming into abutment in two opposite directions against the two endpieces (6a-6d). 9. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that the cables (20) are two in number per bellows and are disposed on either side of the bellows. 10. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that it has at least three endpieces (6a-6d) disposed in succession, and for each successive pair of endpieces, it has at least two bellows (10) each fixed to two endpieces. 11. A device according to claim 10, characterized in that for each successive pair of endpieces it includes means (12, 18) for modifying the pressure of a fluid in each of the bellows (10) fixed to the endpieces of the pair, and for doing so independently of the other bellows fixed to the endpieces of the pair. 12. A device according to claim 10, characterized in that the means for modifying the pressure are suitable for modifying the pressure in each of the bellows fixed to the endpieces of one of the pairs, and for doing so independently of the bellows fixed to the endpieces of the other pair or of another pair amongst the pairs of endpieces. 13. A device according to claim 10, characterized in that the two bellows of one of the pairs of endpieces are in fluid communication with the respective bellows of the other pair or of another pair amongst the pairs of endpieces. 14. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that it includes at least one spacer (16) disposed to prevent two endpieces moving closer together or to prevent two of the endpieces moving closer together beyond a predetermined value. 15. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that each bellows is capable of lengthening and of shortening along a longitudinal direction of the bellows under the effect of the fluid without substantial modification of the dimension of the bellows perpendicularly to the longitudinal direction. 16. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that it has an inner first sheath (24) fixed to a proximal one (6d) of the endpieces, and an outer second sheath (14) receiving the endpieces (6a-6d) and suitable for sliding in the inner first sheath. 17. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that the fluid is a liquid. 18. A device according to claim 1, characterized in that it has an empty longitudinal space extending from one end of the device to the other. 19. A device according to claim 18, characterized in that the empty longitudinal space is arranged to allow instruments or waveguides to be passed therealong. 20. A device according to claim 1, the endpieces defining a longitudinal direction, the device including at least one spacer disposed between the endpieces and arranged to prevent at least one of the bellows against radial movement with reference to the longitudinal direction. 21. A device according to claim 20, wherein each spacer is arranged to prevent at least two bellows against the radial movement. 22. A device according to claim 20, wherein it includes at least two spacers arranged to prevent at least one of the bellows against the radial movement and both disposed between the two endpieces or between two of the endpieces following each other. 23. A device according to claim 20, wherein bellow prevented against radial movement by the spacer has a narrow portion adjacent to the spacer. 24. A device according to claim 20, wherein the or each bellow prevented against radial movement by the spacer has a smooth portion adjacent to the spacer. 25. A device according to claim 1, wherein said positioning, exploration, and/or intervention device is part of a medical-surgical instrument. 26. A device according to claim 1, wherein said device is part of a catheter. 27. A device according to claim 1, wherein said device is part of an endoscope. 