The invention relates to a work piece holder with top mounted robot which optimizes floor space for a work piece positioner and a robot. In general, the work piece positioner assembly and the top mounted robot is supported on a base frame. Attached to the base frame, is a first superstructure and a second superstructure which supports a work piece positioner and the top mounted robot. Above the first superstructure and second superstructure is a frame structure fixed in the unitary assembly to the first superstructure and the second superstructure. Attached to the frame structure is a robot stand and a robot. Due to the unique shape of the work piece holder with top mounted robot, the floor space of the combined robot and work piece positioner is significantly reduced, and the overall cost of the system is reduced.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workstation comprising: a base; a work piece holder operatively connected to said base; holder drive for selectively moving said work piece holder from a loading station to a working station; a support structure attached to said base; said support structure capable of supporting a weight of a frame structure and of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; a frame structure attached to said support structure adapted for attachment of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; at least one stand attached to the frame structure; said stand having a stand base, a stand top, and a stand body attached to said stand base and said stand top; and a surface attached to said stand top adapted for attachment of a robot. 2. The workstation according to claim 1 wherein said workstation further comprises at least one robot attached to said stand. 3. A workstation comprising: a base; a support structure attached to said base; a work piece holder operatively connected to said support structure; holder drive for selectively moving said work piece holder from a loading station to a working station; said support structure capable of supporting a weight of a frame structure and of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; a frame structure attached to said support structure adapted for attachment of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; first and second work piece supports on said work piece holder. 4. The workstation according to claim 3 wherein said support structure comprises a first superstructure attached to said base wherein said first work piece support is on said first superstructure, and a second superstructure attached to said base wherein said second work piece support is on said second superstructure. 5. A workstation comprising: a base; a work piece holder operatively connected to said base; holder drive for selectively moving said work piece holder from a loading station to a working station; a support structure attached to said base; said support structure capable of supporting a weight of a frame structure and of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; a frame structure attached to said support structure adapted for attachment of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; said support structure having a first superstructure attached to said base, and a second superstructure attached to said base; said frame having a first bridge with a first bridge headstock end attached to the first superstructure, and a first bridge tailstock end attached to the second superstructure; and a second bridge with a second bridge headstock end attached to the first superstructure, and a second bridge tailstock end attached to the second superstructure. 6. The workstation according to claim 5 wherein said frame further comprises a headstock extension member attached to said first bridge headstock end and said second bridge headstock end, and a tailstock extension member attached to said first bridge tailstock end and said second bridge tailstock end. 7. The workstation according to claim 6 wherein said frame further comprises a headstock frame base attached to said headstock extension member, and a tailstock frame base attached to said tailstock extension member. 8. A workstation comprising: a base; a work piece holder operatively connected to said base; holder drive for selectively moving said work piece holder from a loading station to a working station; a support structure attached to said base; said support structure capable of supporting a weight of a frame structure and of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; a frame structure attached to said support structure adapted for attachment of at least one robot stand and of at least one robot; said support structure having first and second opposing, spaced-apart superstructures, each superstructure having a lower end attached to the base and an upper end; said frame structure extending between said first and second superstructures and attached to the upper end of the first and second superstructures for attachment of at least one robot stand in at least one robot; at least one work piece holder upon said support structure. 9. The work station according to claim 8 further comprising a first work piece support on said first superstructure and a second work piece support on said second superstructure. 10. The work station of claim 8 wherein said first and second work piece holders are capable of rotating between a loading station and a working station. 