Apparatus and method for placement of workpieces such as silicon wafers in relation to an integrated circuit fabrication tool. A robotic arm mounted in relation to the tool moves workpieces in and out of the tool. A spacer has an exposed spacer surface facing away from the tool. The relative position of this exposed spacer surface is adjustable with respect to the tool. A movable cassette support supports one or more workpieces and is placed in abutting relationship with the spacer surface. It is onto this cassette support surface that a conveyor system such as an overhead transport delivers cassettes containing workpieces such as wafers for subsequent treatment by the tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for positioning a movable workpiece support with respect an integrated circuit fabrication tool comprising: Positioning a tool for receipt of one or more workpieces for performing a fabrication step on the workpiece; Mounting a robotic arm in relation to a treatment region of said tool for moving a workpiece in relation to the treatment region; Coupling a spacer having an exposed spacer surface to the tool; Adjusting a positioning of the exposed spacer surface toward or away from the tool in a direction generally perpendicular with respect to the exposed spacer surface; and Positioning one or more workpieces into range of the robotic arm by moving a movable workpiece support against the exposed spacer surface and placing one or more workpieces on the support in relation to the ion implanter within reach of the robotic arm. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein one or more workpieces are supported within a cassette that contains multiple workpieces. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of positioning the workpieces is performed by sensing a position of a locating pin and placing the cassette onto the movable workpiece support based on the sensing of said pin. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the spacer is a weldment having a thickness and having an outer surface that defines the exposed spacer surface and including adjusting the position of the outer surface with respect to the tool by adjusting a set screw having one end that engages a surface of said tool. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein the workpiece support is attached to the tool after adjusting the set screw by abutting the workpiece support against the outer surface of said weldment. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein subsequent to abutting the workpiece support against the outer surface, the workpiece support is fixed in place by connectors that engage the spacer. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the workpiece support comprises a pod door opening and additionally comprising a step of movably supporting a cassette containing parallel oriented workpieces for movement within reach of the robot. 8. The process of claim 1 additionally wherein the robotic arm delivers the workpieces to a load lock for reducing the pressure experienced by the workpieces within the tool. 9. Apparatus comprising: An integrated circuit fabrication tool having a treatment region for placement of workpieces for treatment of said workpieces; A robotic arm mounted in relation to the fabrication tool for moving workpieces to the treatment region of said tool; A spacer coupled to the integrated circuit fabrication tool and having an exposed spacer surface moveable toward or away from the fabrication tool in a direction generally perpendicular to said spacer surface for adjustable movement with respect to the tool so that the position of the exposed spacer surface can be adjusted; and A workpiece support for placement in abutting relationship with the exposed spacer surface to position a workpiece within reach of the robot. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the spacer comprises a weldment having spacer blocks that define a thickness of said weldment. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the spacer comprises: a) One or more spacer blocks having threaded openings that extend through said one or more spacer blocks; b) A frame member that supports the spacer blocks; c) One or more spacer locating screws that engage the threaded openings of the spacer blocks and extend outwardly an adjustable distance from a surface of the spacer to position the spacer in relation to the fabrication tool by contact with a fabrication tool; and d) One or more connectors that attach the spacer to the fabrication tool once the position of the spacer in relation to the fabrication tool has been fixed by adjustment of said locating screws. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the spacer comprises: a) One or more spacer blocks having threaded openings that extend through said one or more spacer blocks; b) A frame member to which the spacer blocks are welded to fix the spacer blocks and wherein the combination of the spacer blocks and the frame member defines a weldment having a weldment thickness; c) One or more spacer locating screws that engage the threaded openings of the spacer blocks and extend outwardly an adjustable distance from a surface of the weldment to position the weldment by contact with a fabrication tool; and d) One or more connectors that attach the spacer to the fabrication tool once the position of the weldment in relation to the fabrication tool has been fixed by adjustment of said locating screws. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the workpiece support comprises a pod door opener having a movable support that supports cassettes containing multiple workpieces for movement in relation to the tool. 14. A spacer for use in positioning one or more workpieces with respect to an integrated circuit fabrication tool comprising: a) One or more spacer blocks having openings that extend through said one or more spacer blocks; b) A frame that supports the spacer blocks; c) One or more locating adjusting screws that are positioned within the openings of the spacer blocks and extend outwardly an adjustable distance from a surface of the spacer to position the spacer in relation to a fabrication tool by contact between said pins and the fabrication tool; and d) One or more connectors for attaching the spacer to a fabrication tool once the position of the spacer in relation to the fabrication tool has been fixed by adjustment of said locating adjusting screws. 15. Apparatus for use in positioning one or more workpieces with respect to an integrated circuit fabrication tool comprising: a) One or more spacer blocks having threaded openings that extend through said one or more spacer blocks; b) A frame member to whom the spacer blocks are welded to fix the spacer blocks and wherein the combination of the spacer blocks and the frame member defines a weldment having a weldment thickness; c) One or more spacer locating screws that engage the threaded openings of the spacer blocks and extend outwardly an adjustable distance from a surface of the weldment to position the weldment by contact with a fabrication tool; and d) One or more connectors for attaching the spacer to a fabrication tool once the position of the weldment in relation to the fabrication tool has been fixed by adjustment of said locating screws. 16. Apparatus comprising: an integrated circuit fabrication tool having a treatment region for placement of workpieces for treatment of said workpieces; a robotic arm mounted in relation to the fabrication tool for moving workpieces to the treatment region of said tool; a spacer having an exposed spacer surface for adjustable movement with respect to the tool so that the position of the exposed spacer surface can be adjusted, said spacer comprising: a) one or more spacer blocks having threaded openings that extend through said one or more spacer blocks; b) a frame member that supports the spacer blocks; c) one or more spacer locating screws that engage the threaded openings of the spacer blocks and extend outwardly an adjustable distance from a surface of the spacer to position the spacer in relation to the fabrication tool by contact with a fabrication tool; and d) one or more connectors that attach the spacer to a fabrication tool once the position of the spacer in relation to the fabrication tool has been fixed by adjustment of said locating screws; and a workpiece support for placement in abutting relationship with the exposed spacer surface to position a workpiece within reach of the robot. 