An arrangement is provided including an electrode extending to an electrode tip for contacting a workpiece. A welding configuration of the electrode tip is established by exposing the electrode tip to a selected welding environment for use in forming a weld having a target set of weld parameters. An electrode passage is defined in a biasing force arrangement supporting at least a portion of the length of an elongated, flexible electrode and to limit lateral movement sufficient to transfer at least a portion of a resilient force to the electrode tip so that the tip resiliently contacts the weld region. The electrode passage limits induced lateral flexing to an extent which transfers an amount of the resilient force to the first end portion of the electrode that is sufficient to provide for formation of a weld between the support arrangement and the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A resistance spot welding method for fixedly attaching an attachment surface of an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support arrangement, said method comprising: configuring a biasing force arrangement having a biasing tip for distributing a biasing force at least partially around a weld region of the workpiece to selectively bias the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement and defining a through hole in the biasing force arrangement having an exit opening, formed within the biasing tip, that is at least generally aligned with the weld region when the biasing force arrangement delivers said biasing force around the weld region; providing an elongated, flexible electrode, having an overall length between a first end and a second, opposing end; and resiliently urging the electrode into the through hole to cause at least a first portion of the overall length of the electrode to be received in the through hole in a way which supports the first end of the electrode, terminating in an electrode tip for emerging from the exit opening to contact the workpiece at said weld region, while applying a welding current through said electrode tip so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said weld is a micro-weld. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said micro-weld includes a diameter of less than 1 mm. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said workpiece is configured for supporting an optical component. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said biasing tip includes a biasing tip configuration which cooperates with the weld region for applying said biasing force at least immediately adjacent to said exit opening. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said biasing force is in a range from approximately 1/4 pound to approximately 5 pounds. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said biasing force is applied by an annular region of the biasing tip configuration surrounding and immediately adjacent to said exit opening. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said weld region forms part of a weld pocket having a profile that cooperates with the biasing tip configuration to apply the biasing force at least immediately adjacent to the weld region. 9. The method of claim 8 including forming said biasing tip configuration as dome-shaped. 10. The method of claim 8 including forming said weld pocket in said workpiece by etching. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein the weld pocket is formed having a complimentary configuration with respect to the biasing tip such that the biasing tip nests in the weld pocket for use in selectively moving the workpiece slidingly against the support surface during pre-weld positioning. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein configuring the biasing force arrangement forms said through hole as an electrode passage for slidingly receiving a substantial portion of the elongated length of the electrode in a way which positions the second end of the electrode proximately external to an opposing entrance of the electrode passage and resiliently urging includes applying a resilient force at least proximate to the second end of the electrode toward the opposing entrance of the electrode passage to cause the electrode passage to limit lateral movement of the electrode therein sufficient to transfer at least a portion of the resilient force from the second end of the electrode to the electrode tip so that the electrode tip resiliently contacts the weld region, while applying the welding current. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said resilient force is in a range from approximately 1/4 ounce to 5 pounds. 14. The method of claim 12 including applying said resilient force using a spring. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said electrode includes a diameter in a range from approximately 3 mils to 50 mils. 16. The method of claim 12 including forming said electrode to include copper. 17. The method of claim 12 including forming said electrode using an insulated wire and cutting said wire to length. 18. The method of claim 12 including applying said biasing force in a movement mode using a movement mode force magnitude, before welding the workpiece to the support surface, such that the workpiece slidingly engages the support surface for using the biasing force arrangement to positionally adjust the workpiece against the support surface and, thereafter, increasing the biasing force to a locked mode force magnitude, at least during welding, so as to resist welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support surface. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein resiliently urging the electrode cooperates with the electrode to permit the electrode tip to move in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region, during welding, at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein, before using the electrode tip to form the micro weld having a target set of weld parameters, establishing a welding configuration of the electrode tip by exposing the electrode tip to a selected welding environment that is selected based on the target set of weld parameters and welding includes using the electrode tip in contact with the workpiece to form said micro weld by re-exposing said electrode tip to the selected welding environment in a way which maintains the welding configuration of the electrode tip for use in forming an additional micro weld having the target set of weld parameters. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein resiliently urging includes applying a resilient force to the second end of the electrode to cause the electrode tip to contact the weld region. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said first portion of the overall length of the electrode is arranged, at least approximately, normal to the weld region. 23. The method of claim 21 including supporting a second portion of the overall length of the electrode in an arcuate configuration extending from the first portion so that the second portion is at least generally nonparallel with respect to the first portion. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein supporting the second portion of the overall length of the electrode includes defining said arcuate configuration as a tubular passage formed by a tubular member and supporting said tubular member proximate to the biasing force arrangement such that the first end of the elongated electrode passes from the tubular passage into the through hole. 25. A resistance spot welding system for fixedly attaching an attachment surface of an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support arrangement, said system comprising: a biasing force arrangement having a biasing tip for distributing a biasing force at least partially around a weld region of the workpiece to selectively bias the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement and for defining a through hole having an exit opening, formed within the biasing tip, that is at least generally aligned with the weld region when the biasing force arrangement delivers said biasing force around the weld region; an elongated, flexible electrode, having an overall length between a first end and a second, opposing end; and a resilient urging configuration for resiliently urging the electrode into the through hole to cause at least a first portion of the overall length of the electrode to be received in the through hole in a way which supports the first end of the electrode, terminating in an electrode tip for emerging from the exit opening to contact the workpiece at said weld region, while applying a welding current through said electrode tip so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said weld is a micro-weld. 27. The system of claim 25 wherein said workpiece is configured for supporting an optical component. 28. The system of claim 25 wherein said biasing tip includes a biasing tip configuration which cooperates with the weld region for applying said biasing force at least immediately adjacent to said exit opening. 29. The system of claim 25 wherein said biasing force is in a range from approximately 1/4 pound to approximately 5 pounds. 30. The system of claim 25 wherein said biasing force is applied by an annular region of the biasing tip configuration surrounding and immediately adjacent to said exit opening. 31. The system of claim 30 wherein said weld region forms part of a weld pocket having a profile that cooperates with the biasing tip configuration to apply the biasing force at least immediately adjacent to the weld region. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein said biasing tip configuration is dome-shaped. 33. The system of claim 31 wherein said weld pocket is formed in said workpiece by etching. 34. The system of claim 31 wherein the weld pocket includes a complimentary configuration with respect to the biasing tip such that the biasing tip nests in the weld pocket for use in selectively moving the workpiece slidingly against the support surface during pre-weld positioning. 35. The system of claim 25 wherein the biasing force arrangement is configured to form said through hole as an electrode passage for slidingly receiving a substantial portion of the elongated length of the electrode in a way which positions the second end of the electrode proximately external to an opposing entrance of the electrode passage and the resilient urging configuration applies a resilient force at least proximate to the second end of the electrode toward the opposing entrance of the electrode passage to cause the electrode passage to limit lateral movement of the electrode therein sufficient to transfer at least a portion of the resilient force from the second end of the electrode to the electrode tip so that the electrode tip resiliently contacts the weld region, while applying the welding current. 36. The system of claim 35 wherein said resilient force is in a range from approximately 1/4 ounce to 5 pounds. 37. The system of claim 35 wherein said resilient urging configuration includes a spring for applying said resilient force. 38. The system of claim 35 wherein said electrode includes a diameter in a range from approximately 3 mils to 50 mils. 39. The system of claim 35 wherein said electrode includes copper. 40. The system of claim 35 wherein said electrode is formed using an insulated wire. 41. The system of claim 35 wherein said biasing force arrangement applies said biasing force in a movement mode using a movement mode force magnitude, before welding the workpiece to the support surface, such that the workpiece slidingly engages the support surface for using the biasing force arrangement to positionally adjust the workpiece against the support surface and, thereafter, the biasing force arrangement is configured for increasing the biasing force to a locked mode force magnitude, at least during welding, so as to resist welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support surface. 42. The system of claim 25 wherein said resilient urging configuration cooperates with the electrode and the biasing force arrangement to permit the electrode tip to move in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region, during welding, at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface. 43. The system of claim 25 wherein the resilient urging configuration applies a resilient force to the second end of the electrode to cause the electrode tip to contact the weld region. 44. The system of claim 43 wherein said first portion of the overall length of the electrode is arranged, at least approximately, normal to the weld region. 45. The system of claim 43 wherein said biasing force arrangement includes a support configuration for slidingly supporting a second portion of the overall length of the electrode in an arcuate configuration extending from the first portion so that the second portion is at least generally nonparallel with respect to the first portion. 46. The system of claim 44 wherein said support configuration supports the second portion of the overall length of the electrode in an arcuate configuration using a tubular passage formed by a tubular member such that the first end of the elongated electrode passes from the tubular passage into the through hole. 47. A resistance spot welding method for fixedly attaching an attachment surface of an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support arrangement, said method comprising: providing an electrode, having an elongated flexible length between a first end portion and a second, opposing end portion; configuring a biasing force arrangement having a biasing tip for distributing a biasing force at least partially around a weld region of the workpiece to selectively bias the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement; defining an electrode passage in the biasing force arrangement for slidingly receiving a substantial portion of the elongated length of the electrode in a way which positions the first end portion of the electrode at the biasing tip to serve as an electrode tip that is at least generally aligned with the weld region when the biasing force arrangement delivers said biasing force and which positions the second end portion of the electrode proximately external to an opposing entrance of the electrode passage; and resiliently urging the second end portion of the electrode into the opposing entrance opening of the electrode passage using a resilient force to cause the electrode passage to limit lateral movement of the electrode therein sufficient to transfer at least a portion of the resilient force from the second end portion of the electrode to the electrode tip so that the electrode tip resiliently contacts the weld region, while applying a welding current through said electrode tip, so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 48. The method of claim 47 wherein the electrode passage serves as an electrode path and said resilient force is characterized by a magnitude that is sufficient to produce lateral flexing of the electrode along said elongated flexible length, cooperating with a flexibility characteristic of the electrode, that is sufficient to deflect the electrode at least partially out of the electrode path without external confinement by the electrode passage. 49. The method of claim 47 wherein said electrode passage is, at least in part, arcuate in configuration. 50. The method of claim 47 wherein said resilient force is characterized by a magnitude that is sufficient to produce lateral flexing of the electrode along said elongated flexible length based on a flexibility characteristic of the electrode which lateral flexing is sufficient to cause the electrode tip to lose resilient contact with the weld region, without confinement by the electrode passage, to an extent that would otherwise prevent formation of a weld. 51. The method of claim 47 wherein said electrode includes a flexibility characteristic along the electrode length which cooperates with the resilient biasing force in a way which limits deformation of the electrode tip resulting from contacting the workpiece so as to maintain a pre-resilient contact configuration of the electrode tip. 52. The method of claim 47 including configuring said biasing tip to include an exit opening for said electrode tip and which leads into said electrode passage and to apply said biasing force using an annular region of the biasing tip that surrounds and is immediately adjacent to the exit opening. 53. The method of claim 52 wherein said weld region forms a part of a weld pocket having a profile that cooperates with the biasing tip configuration to apply the biasing force at least immediately adjacent to the weld region. 54. The method of claim 53 including forming said biasing tip configuration as dome-shaped. 55. The method of claim 53 including forming said weld pocket in said workpiece by etching. 56. The method of claim 53 wherein said workpiece includes an outer surface with said weld pocket being inset with respect to said surface and wherein said biasing tip configuration and the profile of the weld pocket cooperate to apply said biasing force in an annular region within the weld pocket, which annular region is at least inset with respect to said surface. 57. The method of claim 56 wherein said weld pocket is formed including a weld pocket floor, for contact by the electrode tip and through which said welding current is to pass and which is downset from said outer surface, and said annular region forms part of the weld pocket floor. 58. The method of claim 57 wherein the biasing tip is formed having a complimentary configuration with respect to the weld pocket such that the biasing tip nests in the weld pocket for use in selectively moving the workpiece slidingly against the support surface during pre-weld positioning. 59. The method of claim 47 wherein said workpiece is configured for supporting an optical component. 60. The method of claim 47 including forming said electrode to include copper. 61. The method of claim 47 wherein said electrode includes a diameter in a range from approximately 3 mils to 50 mils. 62. The method of claim 47 wherein welding forms a micro weld with a weld shift of less than 1 .mu.m. 63. The method of claim 47 wherein said biasing force is in a range from approximately 1/4 pound to approximately 5 pounds. 64. The method of claim 47 wherein said biasing force is applied by an annular region of the biasing tip surrounding and immediately adjacent to said electrode tip. 65. The method of claim 47 including applying said resilient force using a spring. 66. The method of claim 47 including forming said electrode using an insulated wire and cutting said wire to length. 67. The method of claim 47 including applying said biasing force using the biasing tip in a movement mode having a movement mode force magnitude, before welding the workpiece to the support surface, such that the workpiece slidingly engages the support surface during positional adjustment using the manipulation tip to positionally adjust the workpiece against the support surface and, thereafter, increasing the biasing force to a locked mode force magnitude, at least during welding, so as to resist welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support surface. 68. The method of claim 47 wherein resiliently urging the electrode causes the electrode tip to move in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region, during welding, at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface. 69. A resistance spot welding system for fixedly attaching an attachment surface of an electrically conductive workpiece to an electrically conductive support surface that is defined by a support arrangement, said system comprising: an electrode, having an elongated flexible length between opposing first and second end portions; a biasing force arrangement having a biasing tip for distributing a biasing force around a weld region of the workpiece to selectively bias the attachment surface of the workpiece against said support surface in a way which at least resists welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support arrangement, said biasing force arrangement defining an electrode passage which slidingly receives a substantial portion of the elongated length of the electrode such that the first end portion of the electrode is positioned at the biasing tip to serve as an electrode tip that is at least generally aligned with the weld region when the biasing force arrangement delivers said biasing force around the weld region and which positions the second end portion of the electrode proximately external to an opposing entrance of the electrode passage; and a configuration for resiliently urging the second end portion of the electrode into the electrode passage using a resilient force to cause the electrode passage to limit lateral movement of the electrode therein sufficient to transfer at least a portion of the resilient force from the second end portion of the electrode to the electrode tip so that the electrode tip resiliently contacts the weld region, while applying a welding current through said electrode tip, so as to weld the attachment surface of the workpiece to the support surface. 70. The system of claim 69 wherein the electrode passage serves as an electrode path and said resilient force is characterized by a magnitude that is sufficient to produce lateral flexing of the electrode along said elongated flexible length, cooperating with a flexibility characteristic of the electrode, that is sufficient to deflect the electrode at least partially out of the electrode path without external confinement by the electrode passage. 71. The system of claim 69 wherein said electrode passage is, at least in part, arcuate in configuration. 72. The system of claim 69 wherein said resilient force is characterized by a magnitude that is sufficient to produce lateral flexing of the electrode along said elongated flexible length based on a flexibility characteristic of the electrode which lateral flexing is sufficient to cause the electrode tip to lose resilient contact with the weld region, without confinement by the electrode passage, to an extent that would otherwise prevent formation of a weld. 73. The system of claim 69 wherein said electrode includes a flexibility characteristic along said electrode length that cooperates with the resilient biasing force in a way which limits deformation of the electrode tip resulting from contacting the workpiece so as to maintain a pre-resilient contact configuration of the electrode tip. 74. The system of claim 69 wherein said biasing tip is configured to include an exit opening for said electrode tip and which exit opening leads into said electrode passage and is further configured to apply said biasing force using an annular region of the biasing tip that surrounds and is immediately adjacent to the exit opening. 75. The system of claim 74 wherein said weld region forms part of a weld pocket having a profile that cooperates with the biasing tip configuration to apply the biasing force at least immediately adjacent to the weld region. 76. The system of claim 75 wherein said biasing tip configuration is dome-shaped. 77. The system of claim 75 wherein said weld pocket is formed in said workpiece by etching. 78. The system of claim 75 wherein said workpiece includes an outer surface in which said weld pocket is inset and wherein said biasing tip configuration and the profile of the weld pocket cooperate to apply said biasing force in an annular region within the weld pocket, which annular region is at least inset with respect to said surface. 79. The system of claim 78 wherein said weld pocket includes a weld pocket floor, for contact by the electrode tip and through which said welding current is to pass, and which is downset from said outer surface, and said annular region forms part of the weld pocket floor. 80. The system of claim 78 wherein said biasing tip includes a curved configuration and the weld pocket includes a complimentary configuration such that the biasing tip nests in the weld pocket for use in selectively moving the workpiece slidingly against the support surface during pre-weld positioning. 81. The system of claim 69 wherein said workpiece is configured for supporting an optical component. 82. The system of claim 69 wherein said electrode includes copper. 83. The system of claim 69 wherein said electrode includes a diameter in a range from approximately 3 mils to 50 mils. 84. The system of claim 69 arranged for forming a micro weld with a weld shift of less than 1 .mu.m. 85. The system of claim 69 wherein said biasing force is in a range from approximately 1/4 pound to approximately 5 pounds. 86. The system of claim 69 wherein said biasing force is applied by an annular region of the biasing tip surrounding and immediately adjacent to said electrode tip. 87. The system of claim 69 wherein said configuration for resilient urging the electrode is configured to apply said resilient force using a spring. 88. The system of claim 69 wherein said electrode is formed using an insulated wire. 89. The system of claim 69 configured for applying said biasing force using the biasing tip in a movement mode having a movement mode force magnitude, before welding the workpiece to the support surface, such that the workpiece slidingly engages the support surface during positional adjustment using the manipulation tip to positionally adjust the workpiece against the support surface and, thereafter, increasing the biasing force to a locked mode force magnitude, at least during welding, so as to resist welding induced movement of the workpiece relative to the support surface. 90. The system of claim 69 wherein the electrode tip moves in a way which provides for substantially compliant movement of the electrode tip with the weld region, during welding, at least in directions that are generally parallel to the support surface. 