A production system for manufacturing a workpiece comprises an index system including a plurality of index devices removably mounted on the workpiece at known longitudinally spaced locations therealong, and a longitudinally extending index member releasably engaged with at least two of the index devices such that a position and orientation of the index member are fixed relative to the workpiece by the index devices, the index member having position-indicating features distributed therealong. The production system further comprises a machine module mounted for longitudinal movement along the index member and operable to perform an operation, the machine module being operable to detect the position-indicating features on the index member and thereby determine a position of the machine module relative to the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a workpiece, the method comprising: removably mounting an index system on the workpiece, the index system including a plurality of index devices at known longitudinally spaced locations along the workpiece; releasably engaging a longitudinally extending index member with at least two of the index devices such that a position and orientation of the index member are fixed relative to the workpiece by the index devices; storing information in a machine-readable sensor mounted in each index device, the information including an identifier unique to each respective index device; moving a machine module longitudinally along the index member; reading the identifiers stored in the sensors to thereby determine a position of the machine module relative to the workpiece; and performing an operation on the workpiece with the machine module at one of the known longitudinally spaced locations therealong. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reading step comprises reading a machine-readable position-indicating strip mounted along the index member so as to determine the position of the machine module relative to the workpiece. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of removably mounting the index system on the workpiece comprises releasably installing a pin of each index device in a hole of the workpiece. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising providing a controller in communication with the machine module, the controller being programmed with information correlating the identifiers of the index devices with work process information such that the identifier for each index device is associated with a set of work process information pertaining to a zone of the workpiece at which the respective index device is mounted. 5. A method according to claim 4, further comprising controlling the machine module to perform at least one work operation on at least one zone of the workpiece based on the work process information stored in the controller for the zone. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said moving step comprises cooperatively engaging drive elements of the machine module and the index member. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said moving step comprises moving the machine module relative to the workpiece with a drive system independent of the index member. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said engaging step comprises engaging a first index arm of the index member to one of the index devices and a second index arm of the index member to another of the index devices such that the position of the index member relative to the workpiece is fixed by the index devices. 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising adjusting the second index arm in longitudinal position along the index member while the first index arm is fixed to the index member. 10. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: supporting the index member with an index support system; moving the index member relative to the workpiece prior to said engaging step; and locking the index support system after engaging the index member with the index devices so as to immobilize the index member relative to the workpiece. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said locking step comprises applying clamping forces to the workpiece from opposite sides thereof with a pair of clamp assemblies of the index support system. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of performing an operation comprises drilling a hole in the workpiece with a drill. 13. A method according to claim 12, further comprising automatically changing a drilling tool held in the drill using a drill changer mounted on the machine module and supporting a plurality of drilling tools. 14. A method according to claim 12, wherein said step of performing an operation comprises inserting a fastener into the hole in the workpiece with a fastener insertion device mounted on the machine module. 15. A method according to claim 14, further comprising clamping together parts of the workpiece to be joined by the fastener. 16. A method according to claim 15, further comprising measuring a stack-up thickness of the clamped parts through which the fastener must extend using the clamp mechanism and accordingly selecting a proper length fastener for insertion into the hole. 17. A method according to claim 15, wherein said step of inserting a fastener comprises inserting a rivet wire into the hole in the workpiece and upsetting the rivet wire to form a rivet joining the clamped parts together. 18. A method according to claim 17, further comprising providing information as to the stack-up thickness of the clamped parts to a rivet cutter and cutting the rivet wire to a proper grip length based on the stack-up thickness. 19. A method according to claim 12, further comprising rotating the drill about at least one rotation axis for varying a drilling direction along which the hole is drilled in the workpiece. 20. A method according to claim 1, further comprising engaging and disengaging a plurality of index systems with the index devices mounted on the workpiece, each of the index systems having a different machine module mounted thereon. 21. A method of processing a workpiece, the method comprising: removably affixing a plurality of index devices to the workpiece in known locations thereof, each index device being proximate a different zone of the workpiece, and each index device having a machine-readable sensor in which is stored an identifier unique to the respective index device; reading the identifiers stored in the sensors of the index devices with a reader; communicating the identifiers to a controller preprogrammed with process information for each zone of the workpiece, the process information for each zone being correlated with the identifier stored in the sensor of the index device located proximate the zone; and retrieving the process information for a respective one of the zones based on the identifier read by the reader. 22. A method according to claim 21, further comprising controlling a drilling device with the controller so as to drill holes in locations prescribed in the process information for the respective zone of the workpiece. 23. A method according to claim 22, further comprising positioning a drilling head of the drilling device using a 2-axis positioning system. 24. A method according to claim 23, further comprising releasably engaging a pair of the index devices affixed to the workpiece so as to fix a position and orientation of the 2-axis positioning system relative to the workpiece. 