An automated tool for performing an EL CID inspection of the step iron region of a generator stator that can be employed with the rotor in place. The tool has a track that is axially cantilevered at one end and supported magnetically within a stator slot adjacent the region to be monitored. The track has a smoothly rounded contour that approximately conforms to the profile of the stator step region. A carriage carrying a pickup coil is slideably mounted on the track and is driven back and forth along the track over the area to be inspected by a remotely-operated drive system. A video camera is mounted on the track and provides a remote visual indication of the location of the carriage relative to the stator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrical generator inspection system for detecting insulation breakdown axially between two or more adjacent laminates of a generator stator core comprising: a track supported by and spaced from the generator stator core and generally shaped to approximately conform to at least a portion of the axial profile of the generator stator core; a carriage that rides along and is supported by the track between the track and the generator stator core; an electromagnetic detector for identifying eddy currents flowing between laminates in the stator core, said electromagnetic detector being supported by said carriage between the carriage and the generator stator core; and drive means for remotely moving the carriage along the track. 2. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 1 wherein a slot guide is affixed substantially at one end of said track to support the track in the axial direction when the slot guide is positioned in a coil winding slot of the generator stator core. 3. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 2 wherein the slot guide is magnetic. 4. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 3 wherein a magnet is supported within the slot guide. 5. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 2 where in the shape of the slot guide generally conforms to the shape of a cross-section of the generator slot. 6. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 1 wherein the track is laminated. 7. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 1 wherein the portion of the axial profile of the generator that the track generally conforms to is a stator stop iron region. 8. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 7 wherein the track is straight in the main body iron area and slopes as it covers the step iron region. 9. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 8 wherein the truck is smoothly curved with no abrupt steps as it generally conforms to the shape of the stator step iron region. 10. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 1 wherein the drive means comprises a motor with an encoder that identifies the position of the carriage on the track. 11. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 10 wherein the drive means includes a return spring which is mounted at one end of travel of the carriage on the track and at the other end the return spring is connected to the carriage and the motor is connected to the side of the carriage opposite the return spring through a drive line. 12. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 11 wherein the return spring and the motor are supported at approximately the same location along the track and the drive line is routed through a pulley system at approximately the other end of the track. 13. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 10 wherein the motor is a DC motor. 14. The electrical generator inspection system of claim 1 including a video camera mounted directly on the track to follow movement of the carriage along the track to give an operator a visual reference of the location of the carriage. 15. A method of inspection a generator stator core comprising the steps of: supporting and spaced from a generator stator core slot a track that has a smooth contour that generally conforms to the axial contour of a step iron region of the generator, axially over the step iron region; remotely moving a carriage having an electromagnetic detector positioned between the carriage and the stator core, along the track over the step iron region of the generator; and remotely monitoring the position of the carriage and an output of the electromagnetic detector. 16. The method of claim 15 including the step of remotely viewing the carriage as it moves along the track. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the remotely viewing step includes the step of framing at least a portion of the carriage and the adjacent stator step iron region in the same picture to provide a visual image of the relative location of the carriage. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the supporting step includes the step of anchoring the track in the slot in the stator substantially at one end of the track. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein time anchoring step is accomplished with magnetic force. 