A clamping apparatus has a body and an elongated member that is extendable from the body. In another aspect of the present invention, a clamp has a workpiece engaging arm mounted adjacent an end of the elongated member. A further aspect of the present invention causes the elongated member to linearly extend and rotate when advanced.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A clamp comprising: a housing having an external opening; an automatic actuator; an elongated shaft coupled to the automatic actuator and having a first end extending through the opening in the housing; and a cover attached to the shaft, the cover operably covering the opening in the housing around the shaft if the shaft is in a substantially retracted position; the automatic actuator operably moving the first end of the shaft and the cover in a linearly extending and rotating manner if the shaft is moved from the retracted position to an advanced position. 2. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising a workpiece engaging arm mounted adjacent the first end of the shaft. 3. The clamp of claim 2 further comprising a biasing member located between the arm and the cover. 4. The clamp of claim 2 wherein the opening in the housing is located in an opposite end of the housing from the automatic actuator, the automatic actuator including a linearly moving piston and a piston rod. 5. The clamp of claim 2 wherein the arm is operable to lift a workpiece. 6. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising a camming mechanism coupled to the shaft. 7. The clamp of claim 6 wherein the automatic actuator and camming mechanism operably move the first end of the shaft and the cover in first a linear direction and subsequently in a rotated direction if the automatic actuator moves the shaft from the retracted position to the advanced position. 8. The clamp of claim 1 further comprising: a roller; and a camming surface stationarily disposed in the housing; wherein the automatic actuator includes a piston and a piston rod, the piston rod couples the shaft to the piston; and wherein the roller is attached to the shaft between the piston rod and the opening, the roller acts as a cam follower along the camming surface. 9. The clamp of claim 1 wherein the first end of the shaft is always located externally to the housing when the shaft is in its advanced and retracted positions. 10. The clamp of claim 1 wherein the housing is entirely enclosed if the shaft is in its retracted position, the cover serving to deter undesired contaminants from entering the opening in the housing if the shaft is in its retracted position. 11. The clamp of claim 1 wherein the cover has a substantially flat surface adjacent and substantially perpendicular to an elongated direction of the shaft, and the cover further has a second surface substantially perpendicular to the flat surface such that the cover substantially conceals an intersection between offset adjacent and external surfaces of the housing. 12. An industrial apparatus comprising: a housing; an automatic actuator; an elongated member coupled to the automatic actuator and having at least a portion projecting external to the housing; a workpiece engagable arm mounted to the member; a cover attached to the member between the arm and the housing; and the automatic actuator operably causing the arm and the cover to linearly extend and rotate along the same plane when the arm is moved from a workpiece engaging position to a workpiece disengaging position. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a camming mechanism coupled to the member and operably rotating a section of the member relative to the housing. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the automatic actuator and camming mechanism operably move the arm in first a linear direction and subsequently in a rotated direction if the automatic actuator moves the shaft from the engaging position to the disengaging position. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the automatic actuator includes a fluid powered piston. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a biasing member located between the arm and the cover. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the arm is operable to lift a workpiece. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the housing is entirely enclosed if the member is in its retracted position, the cover serving to deter undesired contaminants from entering the opening in the housing if the member is in its retracted position, and the housing is substantially a single piece having a longitudinal bore within which the member moves, further comprising at least one plate removably mounted to an extemal side of the housing. 19. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising an industrial robot operably moving the housing. 20. An industrial apparatus comprising: a substantially single piece body having a longitudinally elongated bore; a first camming surface located inside the body on a first side of the bore; a second camming surface located inside the body on a second side of the bore substantially opposite the first camming surface; an elongated member movably located in the bore of the body; a workpiece engagable arm coupled to and operably driven by the member; a first cam follower coupling the member to the first camming surface; a second cam follower coupling the member to the second camming surface; and a plate secured to the body covering the first camming surface and deterring undesired contaminants from entering a camming slot defined by the first camming surface. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a fluid powered piston operably driving the member. 22. An industrial apparatus comprising: a substantially single piece body having a longitudinally elongated bore; a first camming surface located inside the body on a first side of the bore; a second camming surface located inside the body on a second side of the bore substantially opposite the first camming surface; an elonuated member movably located in the bore of the body; a workpiece engagable arm coupled to and operably driven by the member; a first cam follower coupling the member to the first camming surface; and a second cam follower coupling the member to the second camming surface; a piston cylinder located within the substantially one piece body; and an end cap enclosing an end of the piston cylinder. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising air pressure operably causing the piston and the member to advance and retract. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising a plate secured to the body covering the first camming surface and deterring undesired contaminants from entering a camming slot defined by the first camming surface. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising a permanently integral and external side surface of the body located adjacent to and externally concealing a second camming slot defined by the second camming surface. 26. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising an automatic actuator operably driving the member, the member and the workpiece engaging arm being extendable from an end of the body substantially opposite the automatic actuator. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the camming surfaces each have a first leg substantially parallel to an advancing direction of the actuator and a second leg angularly offset from the first leg, the camming surfaces being integrally created as part of the body. 28. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the first and second cam followers are rollers. 29. A clamp comprising: a body; an automatic actuator coupled to the body; a member having an end extendable external to the body and a section located within the body, the member being coupled to and operably driven by the actuator; a workpiece engagable arm having a main aperture with an opening axis, a slot connecting the main aperture to an external surface of the arm, and a fastening hole oriented substantially transverse to the opening axis; a biasing member located between the arm and the body; the member being located through the main aperture of the arm; and a fastener located in the fastening hole to bridge across the slot and compressibly secure the arm upon the member. 30. A clamp comprising: a body; an automatic actuator coupled to the body; a member having an end extendable external to the body and a section located within the body, the member being coupled to and operably driven by the acuator; a workpiece engagable arm having a main aperture with an opening axis, a slot connecting the main aperture to an external surface of the arm, and a fastening hole oriented substantially transverse to the opening axis; the member being located through the main aperture of the arm; and a fastener located in the fastening hole to bridge across the slot and compressibly secure the arm upon the member; wherein the arm is linearly extended away from the body and automatically rotated relative to the body when the actuator advances the member. 31. The clamp of claim 30 further comprising a biasing member located between the arm and the body. 32. The clamp of claim 29 wherein the biasing member is a compression spring. 33. A clamp comprising: a body; an automatic actuator couoled to the body; a member having an end extendable external to the body and a section located within the body, the member being coupled to and operably driven by the actuator; a workpiece enaaaable arm having a main aperture with an opening axis, a slot connecting the main aperture to an external surface of the arm, and a fastening hole oriented substantially transverse to the opening axis; the member being located through the main aperture of the arm; and a fastener located in the fastening hole to bridge across the slot and compressibly secure the arm uoon the member; wherein the end of the member is threaded and an internal surface of the main aperture is threaded. 34. A clamp comprising: a body; an automatic actuator coupled to the body; a member havin an end extendable external to the body and a section located within the body, the member being coupled to and operably driven by the actuator; a workpiece engageaable arm having a main aperture with an opening axis, a slot connecting the main aperture to an external surface of the arm, and a fastening hole oriented substantially transverse to the opening axis; the member being located through the main aperture of the arm; and a fastener located in the fastening hole to bridge across the slot and compressibly secure the arm upon the member; wherein an interior surface defining the fastening hole is threaded and the fastener is threaded. 35. The clamp of claim 29 wherein: the actuator includes a fluid powered piston; and the arm is located adjacent an end of the body substantially opposite the piston. 36. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising: a fluid powered piston operably driving the member; and air pressure operably causing the piston and the member to advance and retract. 37. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the camming surfaces each have a first leg substantially parallel to an advancing direction of the actuator and a second leg angularly offset from the first leg, the camming surfaces being integrally created as part of the body. 38. The clamp of claim 30 wherein: the actuator includes a fluid powered piston; and the arm is located adjacent an end of the body substantially opposite the piston. 39. The clamp of claim 34 wherein: the actuator includes a fluid powered piston; and the arm is located adjacent an end of the body substantially opposite the piston. 40. The clamp of claim 33 wherein: the actuator includes a fluid powered piston; and the arm is located adjacent an end of the body substantially opposite the piston. 