Methods and apparatus for characterizing a polymer sample and in preferred embodiments, libraries of polymer samples, in a comprehensive, directly-coupled multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system are disclosed. The first and second dimensions are preferably high-performance liquid chromatography dimensions, such as for example, a first dimension adapted for determining composition (e.g. adapted for mobile-phase gradient elution chromatography, including reverse phase chromatography, adsorption chromatography and the like), and a second dimension adapted for determining molecular weight or particle size (e.g., adapted for size exclusion chromatography, including gel permeation chromatography).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for characterizing a polymer sample in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: injecting the polymer sample into a first-dimension mobile phase of a first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; sampling at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components from the first-dimension mobile phase eluent for directly-coupled injection through a common injector into a second-dimension of the multi-dimensional chromatography system, the second dimension comprising two or more parallel second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; continuously supplying a second-dimension mobile phase in parallel through the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; serially and distributively injecting the sampled portions of the first-dimension separated sample components directly into the second-dimension mobile phases of the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, respectively; chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the injected sample portions from other subcomponents thereof substantially simultaneously in the respective second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, such that the two or more second-dimension mobile phase eluents from the associated two or more second-dimension columns each comprise two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for the sampled portion of the respective first-dimension separated sample component; and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents within each one of the second-dimension mobile phase eluents is detected in series, and a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents as compared between separate second-dimension mobile phase eluents is detected in parallel. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography systems comprises two or more flow-through detectors, and is configured such that each of the two or more mobile-phase eluents has a dedicated flow-through detector for parallel detection of the second-dimension separated subcomponents. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography systems comprises four or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography systems comprises eight or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected with an optical detector. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising after the second-dimension separation step and before the second-dimension detection step, treating the second-dimension separated subcomponents to change an optical property thereof, wherein an optical property of the treated, second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected with an optical detector. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the second-dimension injector is a multi-port switching valve having at least two sample loops. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein injection into the second-dimension mobile phase is effected by a second-dimension injection system comprising the second-dimension injector and a multi-port switching valve, the injector having a sample-loading port for serially receiving a plurality of sampled portions and having a sample-discharge port for discharging the plurality of sampled portions under pressure to the switching valve, the switching valve having an inlet port and two or more selectable outlet ports, the inlet port being in fluid communication with the sample-discharge port of the injector and being in selectable fluid communication with the two or more selectable outlet ports, the two or more selectable outlet ports being in fluid communication with the two or more second-dimension chromatography columns, respectively, such that the sampled portions can be serially and distributively injected into the second-dimension mobile phases of the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography systems comprises four or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, the method further comprising: providing a library comprising ten or more different polymer samples, the polymer samples being polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions, reactants, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives or the relative amounts thereof; serially injecting the ten or more polymer samples into the first-dimension mobile phase through a common first-dimension injector; continuously supplying a mobile phase in parallel through the four or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; and serially and distributively injecting the sampled portions of the first-dimension separated components of ten or more polymer samples into the second-dimension mobile phases of the four or more chromatographic columns through the common second-dimension injector. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second-dimension injector is a multi-port switching valve having at least two sample loops, and the second-dimension multi-port switching valve is controlled such that a first sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the first column, a second sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the second column, a third sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the third column, a fourth sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the fourth column, a fifth sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the first column, a sixth sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the second column, a seventh sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the third column, an eighth sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the fourth column, a ninth sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the first column, and a tenth sampled portion is injected into a mobile phase of the second column. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein a second-dimension mobile phase is continuously supplied in parallel to the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns through two or more supply conduits, each of the two or more supply conduits providing continuous parallel fluid communication between a second-dimension liquid mobile-phase source and the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, respectively, the fluid communication being provided through one or more flow restrictors associated with each supply conduit. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein a portion of the first-dimension separated components are sampled for injection into the second-dimension mobile phases at regularly recurring time intervals. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein a portion of the first-dimension separated components are sampled for injection into the second-dimension mobile phases at intervals triggered by a control signal based on detection of the first-dimension separated components in the first-dimension mobile phase eluent. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a property of interest from the detected property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a property of the first-dimension separated components in the first-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected using a concentration detector or mass detector. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected using an evaporative light-scattering detector. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dimension or second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dimension or second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for gel permeation chromatography. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for gel permeation chromatography. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase compositional gradient elution chromatography. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase temperature gradient elution chromatography. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for reverse phase chromatography. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for adsorption chromatography. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components, and the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a non-biological polymer sample. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a biological polymer sample. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample being characterized is a member of a library of polymer samples comprising four or more different polymer samples, the method further comprising: repeating the steps of injecting a polymer sample into the first-dimension mobile phase, separating a component of the polymer sample in the first-dimension liquid chromatography column, sampling the first-dimension mobile phase eluent, injecting sampled volumes in to the second-dimension mobile phase, separating a subcomponent of sampled portions of the first-dimension separated components in the second-dimension liquid chromatography column, and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the polymer samples of the library. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a polymerization product mixture that is untreated or pretreated only with one or more steps selected from the group consisting of non-chromatographic separation, dilution, mixing, and redissolution. 33. A method for characterizing a polymer sample in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: injecting the polymer sample into a first-dimension mobile phase of a first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components; chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; sampling at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components from the first-dimension mobile phase eluent for directly-coupled injection through a common injector into a second-dimension of the multi-dimensional chromatography system, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography comprising two or more parallel second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; continuously supplying a second-dimension mobile phase in parallel through the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; serially and distributively injecting the sampled portions of the first-dimension separated sample components directly into the second-dimension mobile phases of the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, respectively; chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the injected sample portions from other subcomponents thereof substantially simultaneously in the respective second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, such that the two or more second-dimension mobile phase eluents from the associated two or more second-dimension columns each comprise two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for the sampled portion of the respective first-dimension separated sample component; and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 34. The method according to claim 33, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase compositional gradient elution chromatography. 35. The method according to claim 33, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase temperature gradient elution chromatography. 36. The method according to claim 33, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for reverse phase chromatography. 37. The method according to claim 33, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for adsorption chromatography. 38. A method for characterizing a polymer sample in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: injecting the polymer sample into a first-dimension mobile phase of a first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, wherein the polymer sample is a member of a library of polymer samples comprising four or more different polymer samples; chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; sampling at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components from the first-dimension mobile phase eluent for directly-coupled injection through a common injector into a second-dimension of the multi-dimensional chromatography system, the second dimension comprising two or more parallel second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; continuously supplying a second-dimension mobile phase in parallel through the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns; serially and distributively injecting the sampled portions of the first-dimension separated sample components directly into the second-dimension mobile phases of the two or more second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, respectively; chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the injected sample portions from other subcomponents thereof substantially simultaneously in the respective second-dimension liquid chromatography columns, such that the two or more second-dimension mobile phase eluents from the associated two or more second-dimension columns each comprise two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for the sampled portion of the respective first-dimension separated sample component; detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector; and repeating the steps of injecting a polymer sample into the first-dimension mobile phase, separating a component of the polymer sample in the first-dimension liquid chromatography column, sampling the first-dimension mobile phase eluent, injecting sampled volumes in to the second-dimension mobile phase, separating a subcomponent of sampled portions of the first-dimension separated components in the second-dimension liquid chromatography column, and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the polymer samples of the library. 39. The method according to claim 38, wherein the polymer samples of the library are non-biological polymer samples. 40. The method according to claim 38, wherein the library comprises four or more different non-biological polymers on a common substrate. 41. The method according to claim 38, wherein the library comprises four or more different non-biological polymers synthesized in a parallel reaction vessel. 42. The method according to claim 38, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization. 43. The method according to claim 38, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to one or more of reactant materials, catalysts, catalysts precursors, initiators, additives, or the relative amounts thereof. 44. The method according to claim 38, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 