A process for treating a workpiece having the steps of: altering the temperature of a workpiece surface wherein at least one condition selected from the group of: thermal treatment rate, relative motion between the surface and said thermal treatment rate, coolant flow rate onto said surface, heating flow rate onto said surface and the relative speed between the heating means or the cooling means and the surface is controllable; simultaneously measuring temperatures at a plurality of locations over the surface of the workpiece; determining an average temperature of the temperatures measured; comparing the average temperature to preselected minimum and maximum temperatures for the workpiece; and automatically adjusting at least one of, the controllable conditions if said average temperature is not between the preselected minimum and maximum temperatures for the workpiece. A system for performing a thermal treatment process and the resulting product are also provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process for treating a workpiece, said process comprising the steps of: (a) altering a temperature of a workpiece surface wherein at least one condition is selected from the group consisting of: thermal treatment rate, relative motion between the surface and a thermal treatment means, coolant flow rate onto said surface, heating flow rate onto said surface and the relative speed between a thermal treatment means and the surface is controllable; (b) simultaneously measuring temperatures at a plurality of locations over the surface of the workpiece; (c) determining an average temperature of the temperatures measured in step (b); (d) comparing the average temperature to a preselected minimum temperature and a preselected maximum temperature for the workpiece; (e) automatically adjusting at least one of the conditions from step (a) if said average temperature is not between the preselected minimum temperature and the preselected maximum temperature for the workpiece; (f) determining the standard deviation between said average temperature and a cumulation of said measured temperatures; (g) comparing the standard deviation to a preselected standard deviation, S2; and (h) suspending or limiting said altering step if said standard deviation is greater than said preselected standard deviation, S2. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said altering the temperature of a workpiece step is selected from the group consisting of: thermal spray coating, chemical vapor deposition coating, physical vapor deposition coating, thermally treating, fusing, hardening, nitriding, carburizing, induction heat-treating, laser glazing, heat-facing, heat-shielding, cool rolling and cryogenic treating of a workpiece surface. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said altering the temperature of a workpiece surface step is selected from the group of: thermal deposition coating a landing gear, thermal deposition coating a turbine component, thermal deposition coating an airplane component, thermal deposition coating a land-based turbine, thermal deposition coating an engine component, thermal deposition coating an actuator cylinder, thermal deposition coating a wear-surface, and thermal deposition coating a component partly covered with thermally-sensitive masking material. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said adjusting step comprises adjusting said coolant flow rate, wherein said coolant flow rate is a cryogenic coolant flow rate. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said adjusting step comprises adjusting said coolant flow rate, wherein said coolant flow rate is a forced air coolant flow rate. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein said adjusting step further comprises adjusting said coolant flow rate, wherein said coolant flow rate is a cryogenic coolant flow rate. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said adjusting step further comprises adjusting the heating flow rate. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said altering the temperature of a workpiece step is selected from the group consisting of molding, casting, extrusion metal strip rolling, forging, forming, induction heat treating, joining, brazing, welding, thermal cutting operations, and printing and curing of non-metallic materials. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein said adjusting step comprises adjusting the coolant flow rate from at least one of multiple separately controllable coolant flow devices. 10. A process for treating a workpiece, said process comprising the steps of: (a) altering the temperature of a workpiece surface wherein at least one condition selected from the group of: thermal treatment rate, relative motion between the surface and said thermal treatment means, coolant flow rate onto said surface, heating flow rate onto said surface and the relative speed between the thermal treatment means and the surface is controllable; (b) dividing the surface of the workpiece into a plurality of zones over the length of the workpiece; (c) simultaneously measuring temperatures at a plurality of locations in a plurality of zones over the surface of the workpiece wherein at least one temperature is measured in each zone; (d) determining an average temperature in each of said plurality of zones using said temperatures measured in step (c); (e) comparing each of the average temperatures to a preselected minimum temperature and a preselected maximum temperature for the zone; and (f) automatically adjusting at least one of the conditions from step (a) if said average temperature is not between the preselected minimum temperature and the preselected maximum temperature for at least one of the zones. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein said automatically adjusting step further comprises separately adjusting the coolant flow rate in any said zone for which said average temperature is not between the preselected minimum temperature and the preselected maximum temperature for that zone. 12. The process of claim 10 wherein said measuring step is performed by at least one temperature sensor that measures temperatures at locations in at least two zones. 13. The process of claim 10 wherein said measuring step is performed by at least two temperature sensors that measure temperatures in one of said zones. 14. The process of claim 10 wherein the determining step for at least one zone averages at least one temperature measured in an area within said zone and at least one temperature measured in an area that is at least partially within an adjacent zone. 15. The process of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: (i) repeating steps (b) through (g) if said standard deviation is greater than said preselected standard deviation, S2 until said standard deviation is less than said preselected standard deviation, S2, and then repeating steps (a) through (i). 16. The process of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: (j) comparing the standard deviation to a first preselected standard deviation, S1; (k) adjusting at least one of the conditions from step (a) if said standard deviation is greater than a first preselected standard deviation, S1; and (l) repeating steps (a) through (l) at least once or until said process for treating said workpiece is complete. 17. The process of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: (g) determining an overall average temperature using the average temperatures for the zones; (h) determining the standard deviation between said overall average temperature and a cumulation of said measured temperatures; (i) comparing the standard deviation to a first preselected standard deviation, S1; (j) adjusting at least one of the conditions from step (a) if said standard deviation is greater than a first preselected standard deviation, S1; and (k) repeating steps (a) through (i) at least once or until said process for treating said workpiece is complete. 18. The process of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: (g) determining an overall average temperature using the average temperatures for the zones; (h) determining the standard deviation between said overall average temperature and a cumulation of said measured temperatures; (i) comparing the standard deviation to a second preselected standard deviation, S2; (j) suspending or limiting said altering step if said standard deviation is greater than said second preselected standard deviation, S2; and repeating steps (b) through (j) until said standard deviation is less than said second preselected standard deviation, S2; (k) comparing the standard deviation to a first preselected standard deviation, S1; (l) adjusting at least one of the conditions from step (a) if said standard deviation is greater than a first preselected standard deviation, S1; and (m) repeating steps (a) through (l) at least once or until said treatment process of said workpiece is complete. 19. A system comprising: a. a thermal treatment means for altering a temperature of a surface of a workpiece and a controller for said thermal treatment means; b. workpiece holder for holding a workpiece, c. motion controller for moving said workpiece holder relative to said thermal treatment means; d. at least one temperature sensor that can simultaneously measure temperatures at a plurality of locations over a surface of a workpiece in a plurality of zones; and e. a computer having a control program that receives the input from the at least one temperature sensor and determines an average temperature for each zone; compares the average temperature to a preselected minimum temperature and a preselected maximum temperature for the workpiece; automatically communicates with said motion controller if said average temperature in any of the zones is not between the preselected minimum temperature and the preselected maximum temperature for the workpiece, wherein said control program is operationally configured to determine a standard deviation between said average temperature and a cumulation of said measured temperatures and to compare said standard deviation to a preselected standard deviation. 20. The system of claim 19 further comprising at least one cooling means for air and at least one cooling means for a cryogenic fluid. 21. The system of claim 19 further comprising a plurality of cooling means and a plurality of individual controllers for said cooling means, and at least one of said cooling means directs coolant at a corresponding zone of a surface of a workpiece. 22. The system of claim 19 further comprising a plurality of temperature sensors for at least one zone. 23. The system of claim 22 further comprising at least one individually controllable cooling means controlled by said computer for cooling a corresponding zone. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein said control program automatically communicates with said motion controller if said standard deviation is greater than said preselected standard deviation. 25. The system of claim 19, wherein said control program is operationally configured to compare received temperatures from adjacent zones among said plurality of zones and to account for heat conductivity of said workpiece. 