Various embodiments provide a keyboard that adaptively provides haptic feedback to a user. In at least some embodiments, an actuation of a key or keyboard element of the keyboard is detected. This can be accomplished by detecting the closure of an associated switch caused by a user depressing the key or keyboard element. In response to detecting the actuation, an electrically-deformable material is utilized as an actuating mechanism to impart single or multi-vectored movement to the key or keyboard element according to drive parameters. This movement produces a perceived acceleration of the key or keyboard element, thus providing haptic feedback which simulates a "snapover" effect.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: detecting an actuation of a key or keyboard element of a keyboard, wherein the key or keyboard element actuation is associated with the key or keyboard element; and responsive to detecting the actuation, dynamically imparting single or multi-vectored movement to the key or keyboard element according to one or both of: at least one user-selected parameter; or at least one ascertained parameter based on one or more other key or keyboard element actuations, wherein the at least one ascertained parameter is automatically ascertained from data associated with the one or more other key or keyboard element actuations and further wherein one or both of the at least one user-selected parameter or the at least one ascertained parameter designate a duration of one or more phases of the single or multi-vectored movement. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one user-selected parameter is selected by a user via a user interface. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable press debounce phase corresponding to a depression event sufficient to cause closure of a corresponding switch. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable on response time phase corresponding to a time to activate an actuator in a first direction. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable forward delay phase corresponding to a delay after the actuator has been electrically enabled to move to a first actuated position. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable off response time phase corresponding to a time to activate the actuator in a second direction, back to a non-actuated center position. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable mid-stroke delay phase corresponding to a delay after the actuator has moved back to the non-actuated center position. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes a second adjustable on response time phase corresponding to a time to activate the actuator in a second direction away from the non-actuated center position to a second actuated position. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable release debounce phase corresponding to a delay after the actuator has been electrically enabled to move to the second actuated position. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes an adjustable off response time phase corresponding to a time it takes to activate the actuator in the first direction away from the second actuated position and back to the non-actuated center position. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes a third adjustable on response time phase corresponding to a time to activate the actuator in the first direction back to or near the first actuated position. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more phases includes a second adjustable off response time phase corresponding to a time it takes to activate the actuator in the second direction away from the first actuated position and back to the non-actuated center position. 13. A keyboard comprising: a plurality of keys or keyboard elements; a switch associated with a key or keyboard element, wherein the switch is configured to detect actuations of the key or keyboard element: an actuator operably associated with the switch and the key or keyboard element, wherein the actuator is configured to impart, in response to detecting an actuation of the key or keyboard element, single or multi-vectored movement to the key or keyboard element according to at least one ascertained parameter based on one or more other key or keyboard element actuations and further wherein the at least one ascertained parameter designates a duration of one or more phases of the single or multi-vectored movement. 14. The keyboard of claim 13, wherein the actuator comprises an electrically-deformable material connected to the key or keyboard element. 15. The keyboard of claim 13, wherein the duration of one or more phases of the single or multi-vectored movement includes an on response time phase. 16. The keyboard of claim 13, wherein the duration of one or more phases of the single or multi-vectored movement includes an off response time phase. 17. The keyboard of claim 13, wherein the one or more other key or keyboard element actuations comprise one or more key or keyboard element depression and release events. 18. The keyboard of claim 17, wherein the switch is further configured to measure durations of one or more stages associated with individual key or keyboard element depression and release events. 19. The keyboard of claim 18, further comprising an adaptive response component configured to automatically ascertain the at least one ascertained parameter from data indicating the durations. 20. The keyboard of claim 13, wherein the one or more other key or keyboard element actuations are associated with the key or keyboard element. 21. A system comprising: a keyboard comprising a plurality of keys or keyboard elements; an actuator operably associated with a key or keyboard element of the keyboard, wherein the actuator is configured to impart, in response to an actuation of the key or keyboard element, single or multi-vectored movement to the key or keyboard element according to one or more parameters, wherein one of the one or more parameters designates a duration of one or more phases of the single or multi-vectored movement; an adaptive response component configured to automatically ascertain at least one of the one or more parameters from data associated with one or more other key or keyboard element actuations. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the actuator comprises an electrically-deformable material connected to the key or keyboard element. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the electrically-deformable material comprises an electrostatic material. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the duration of one or more phases of the single or multi-vectored movement is an on response time phase associated with a movement of the key or keyboard element. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more other key or keyboard element actuations are associated with the key or keyboard element. 