Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 3. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding transforming growth factor-beta 3. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of transforming growth factor-beta 3 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of transforming growth factor-beta 3 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 12 to 50 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleobases 653 through 679 of a coding region of a nucleic acid molecule of SEQ ID NO: 3 encoding human transforming growth factor-beta 3, wherein said compound wherein, the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide which specifically hybridizes with said regions and inhibits the expression of human transforming growth factor-beta 3. 2. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 3. The compound of claim 2 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 4. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 5. The compound of claim 1 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 7. The compound of claim 6 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 8. The compound of claim 1 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 9. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 10. The composition of claim 9 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 11. The composition of claim 9 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 12. A method of inhibiting the expression of transforming growth factor-beta 3 in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues in vitro with the antisense compound of claim 1 so that expression transforming growth factor-beta 3 is inhibited. 