A tray for handling and retaining a plurality of small components comprising a rigid body portion with a plurality of pockets formed therein. Each of the pockets has an elastomeric contact surface for contacting and retaining a component. The contact surface may be formed from a thermoplastic material having a surface energy between 20 dyne/cm and 100 dyne/cm, and a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 ohms/square and 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. The material for the contact portion may be urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, polyether block polyamide, or polypropylene/crosslinked EDPM rubber. The body portion may be formed from acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, styrene acrylonitrile, polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, or nylon. The body portion may have a peripheral border region and a downwardly projecting skirt portion to facilitate stacking of multiple trays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A matrix tray for handling and retaining a plurality of small components comprising: a plastic rigid body portion having an upper surface with a plurality of pockets formed therein, each of said pockets adapted to receive one of said plurality of components; and an elastomeric layer molded in each of said plurality of pockets for contacting and retaining the component when the tray is disposed in an inverted position, said layer having an upwardly facing elastomeric contact surface and a downwardly facing concealed surface continuously contacting the rigid body portion, and being formed from a thermoplastic elastomer material having a surface energy between about 20 dyne/cm and about 100 dyne/cm, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 ohms/square and about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square with each component being laterally and vertically restrained in place exclusively by adhesion with said at least one component contact surface when the surface of the component is placed in contact with the component contact surface, and wherein the adhesion is at least sufficient so that the component, remains in place on the component contact surface when said tray is inverted. 2. The tray of claim 1, wherein each said contact surface has a multiplicity of depressions or projections formed thereon for reducing the adhesiveness thereof. 3. The tray of claim 1, wherein said body portion is formed from a rigid thermoplastic material selected from the group of rigid thermoplastic materials consisting of acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, and styrene acrylonitrile. 4. The tray of claim 1 wherein said rigid body portion is formed from rigid polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, polyamide, or nylon. 5. The tray of claim 1, further comprising a tie layer interposed between said body portion and said downwardly facing concealed surface. 6. The tray of claim 1, wherein each said contact surface has a surface energy of between about 30 dyne/cm and about 45 dyne/cm. 7. The tray of claim 1, wherein each said contact surface has a surface energy of about 40 dyne/cm. 8. The tray of claim 1, wherein said body portion has a peripheral border region and a downwardly projecting skirt portion, and wherein said skirt portion is adapted to engage the peripheral border region of a separate tray when the trays are stacked. 9. The tray of claim 1, wherein said rigid body portion has a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 10. The fray of claim 1, wherein said rigid body portion is electrically conductive. 11. The tray of claim 1, wherein said elastomeric contact surface is formed from a thermoplastic elastomer material. 12. The tray of claim 11, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is selected from the group of thermoplastic elastomers consisting of urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, and polyether block polyamide. 13. The tray of claim 11, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is a thermoplastic vulcanizate. 14. The tray of claim 11, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is alloyed with an inherently static dissipative polymer or an inherently conductive polymer. 15. The tray of claim 11, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material contains a filler material. 16. The tray of claim 15, wherein said filler material is an inorganic, conductive material. 17. The tray of claim 16, wherein said inorganic conductive material is carbon fiber, carbon powder, metallic particulate, or ceramic particulate. 18. The tray of claim 15, wherein said filler material is an organic material. 19. The tray of claim 18, wherein said organic material is quaternary ammonium salt, sulfonium salt, alkyl sulfonate, alkyl sulfate, alkyl phosphate, ethanol amide, ethanol amine, or fatty amine. 20. A matrix tray in combination with a plurality of components to be retained thereby, comprising: a plurality of components, each presenting a surface; and a matrix tray comprising: a plastic rigid body portion having a plurality of component receiving structures, each structure adapted to receive one of said plurality of components; and at least one contact layer having a downwardly facing concealed surface continuously molded on said rigid body portion and an upwardly facing component contact surface on each said component receiving structure, said component contact surface being formed from a thermoplastic elastomer material and having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter to about 100 dyne/centimeter and a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, each component being laterally and vertically restrained in place exclusively by adhesion with said at least one component contact surface when the surface of the component is placed in contact with the component contact surface, and wherein the adhesion is at least sufficient so that the component remains in place on the component contact surface when said tray is inverted. 21. The combination of claim 20, wherein said component contact surface has a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 22. The combination of claim 20, wherein said rigid body portion has a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 23. The combination of claim 20, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is selected from the group consisting of urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, polyether block polyamide, and polypropylene/crosslinked EDPM rubber. 24. The combination of claim 20, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is alloyed with an inherently static dissipative polymer or an inherently conductive polymer. 25. The combination of claim 20, wherein said at least one component contact surface has a multiplicity of depressions or projections formed thereon for reducing the adhesiveness thereof. 26. The combination of claim 20, wherein said body portion is formed from a rigid thermoplastic material selected from the group of rigid thermoplastic materials consisting of acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, and styrene acrylonitrile. 27. The combination of claim 20, wherein said rigid body portion is formed from rigid polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, polyamide, or nylon. 28. The combination of claim 20, further comprising a tie layer interposed between said body portion and said component contact surface. 29. The combination of claim 20, wherein said component contact surface has a surface energy of between about 30 dyne/cm and about 45 dyne/cm. 30. The combination of claim 20, wherein said component contact surface has a surface energy of about 40 dyne/cm. 31. The combination of claim 20, wherein said body portion has a peripheral border region and a downwardly projecting skirt portion, and wherein said skirt portion is adapted to engage the peripheral border region of a separate tray when the trays are stacked. 32. The combination of claim 20, wherein said component receiving structure is a pocket, and said component contact surface is formed in the bottom of said pocket. 33. The combination of claim 20, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer contains a filler material. 34. The combination of claim 33, wherein said filler material is carbon fiber, carbon powder, metallic particulate, or ceramic particulate. 35. The combination of claim 33, wherein said filler material is an organic material. 36. A method of making a matrix tray for handling and retaining a plurality of small components comprising the steps of: forming a rigid body portion having a plurality of individual component receiving pockets from plastic material; and forming a component contact surface by molding a component contact layer comprising a thermoplastic elastomer in each of said pockets, said component contact layer having a downwardly facing concealed surface in continuous contact with the rigid body portion and an upwardly facing component contact surface comprising a thermoplastic elastomer and having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter and about 100 dyne/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square, said component contact surface having sufficient adhesion so as to retain each of the plurality of components when said tray is inverted. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising the step of forming a plurality of mechanical bonding structures in each said pocket for bonding the concealed surface to the rigid body portion. 38. The method of claim 36, wherein said body portion is formed from rigid polyethylene, polypropylene, or a fluoropolymer, and further comprising the step of surface treating a portion of each said pocket with a corona, plasma, flame, or chemical treatment process. 39. The method of claim 36 further comprising the step of forming an intermediate tie layer between said body portion and said concealed surface in each said pocket. 40. A matrix tray for handling and retaining a plurality of components comprising: a plastic rigid body portion having a plurality of individual component receiving pockets; and means in each pocket for retaining one of said plurality of component, said means providing at least a sufficient retentive force to the component so that the component is retained in place exclusively by said means when said tray is inverted, wherein said means for retaining one of said plurality of components comprises a contact layer of thermoplastic elastomer material, said layer being in continuous contact with the rigid body portion and having a surface energy of between about 30 dynes/centimeter and about 45 dynes/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore 75, and a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 and 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 41. The tray of claim 40, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer is selected from the group consisting of urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, polyether block polyamide, and polypropylene/crosslinked EDPM rubber. 42. The tray of claim 40, wherein said contact layer has a multiplicity of depressions or projections formed therein for reducing the adhesiveness thereof. 43. The tray of claim 40, wherein said body portion is formed from acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, styrene acrylonitrile, polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, polyamide, or nylon. 44. A method for retaining a plurality of components on a matrix tray comprising: providing a plurality of components, each presenting a surface; providing a matrix tray comprising a rigid, thermoplastic body portion having a plurality of individual component receiving pockets and a component contact layer in each of said pockets, said component contact layer having an upwardly facing component contact surface and a downwardly facing concealed surface continuously molded to the upper surface with the contact layer comprising a thermoplastic customer and having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter and about 100 dyne/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface a electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square; and placing each of said plurality of components in a rate one of said component receiving pockets with the surface of each component in contact with the component contact surface, each of said plurality of components being retained in place exclusively by adhesion with said thermoplastic elastomer of said component contact surface, with the adhesion being sufficient to keep a small component in place on the contact surface when said tray is inverted such that the contact surface faces downward. 45. A system of stackable matrix trays in combination with a plurality of components to be retained in said matrix trays, the combination comprising: a plurality of components, each presenting a surface; and a plurality of matrix trays, each tray comprising: a generally planar rigid body portion having an upper surface with a plurality of component receiving structures arranged in a matrixical pattern thereon, said body portion having a peripheral border region and at least one downwardly projecting structure for engaging the peripheral border region of a separate one of said plurality of trays when the trays are stacked, each component receiving structure having a component contact surface, said component contact surface being formed from a thermoplastic elastomer material that is in continuous contact with the upper surface and having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter and about 100 dyne/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square, the surface of each component in said plurality of components being engagable with the component contact surface of a separate one of said plurality of component receiving structures, wherein each component of said plurality is laterally and vertically restrained in place exclusively by adhesion with said at least one component contact surface, and wherein the adhesion is sufficient so that the component remains in place on the component contact surface whet, the tray is inverted. 