A method and apparatus for the transportation, remote and unattended mounting, and visual alignment and monitoring of protein crystals for synchrotron generated x-ray diffraction analysis. The protein samples are maintained at liquid nitrogen temperatures at all times: during shipment, before mounting, mounting, alignment, data acquisition and following removal. The samples must additionally be stably aligned to within a few microns at a point in space. The ability to accurately perform these tasks remotely and automatically leads to a significant increase in sample throughput and reliability for high-volume protein characterization efforts. Since the protein samples are placed in a shipping-compatible layered stack of sample cassettes each holding many samples, a large number of samples can be shipped in a single cryogenic shipping container.
Claims We claim: 1. A metbod of positioning a sample at a predetermined point in space comprising: establishing a focused video display of a backlit sample with an electronic camera, establishing a software reference for a predetermined point in spare through which an x-ray beam passes, aligning a cursor to the apparent center of the backlit sample on the video display, moving the backlit sample to the software reference point, rotating the backlit sample through an axis non-collinear with the x-ray beam, repealing said aligning, moving, and repeating sequence until the backlit sample undergoes rotations essentially about the software reference point. 2. The method of positioning a sample at a predetermined point in space of claim 1 further comprising: positioning the sample to the predetermined point in space, illuminating the sample with x-ray beam photons, and imaging a diffraction resulting from the illumination step to produce a diffraction data image at a particular rotation, the diffraction data image stored on a computer. 3. The method of positioning a sample at a predetermined point in space of claim 2 further comprising: imaging of the sample at a plurality of rotations to produce a plurality of diffraction data images stored on a computer at each rotational angle. 4. The method of positioning a sample at a predetermined point in space of claim 3 further comprising: ceasing the illumination of the sample with x-ray beam photons after the plurality of diffraction data images stored on a computer at each rotational angle has been completed, and computing a crystal composition and atomic placement from the plurality of diffraction data images. 5. The method of positioning a sample at a predetermined point in space of claim 3 further comprising: cooling the sample at all times to a temperature not in excess of 150.degree. K. 6. The method of positioning a sample at a predetermined point in space of claim 3 further comprising: cooling the sample at all times to a temperature not in excess of 80.degree. K. 