An apparatus for use in testing a plurality of compositions in parallel. The apparatus includes an upper plate having a plurality of openings extending therethrough to form upper fluid chambers and a lower plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough to form cavities. A central plate having a plurality of openings extending therethrough to form central fluid chambers is positioned between the upper and lower plates with the central chambers in alignment with the upper chambers and the cavities. A porous sheet is interposed between the upper and central plates such that an upper surface of the sheet is in contact with fluid within the upper chamber and a lower surface of the sheet is in contact with fluid within the central chamber. The apparatus further includes a flexible membrane positioned between the lower and central plates such that changes in pressure within the cavities or fluid chambers cause deflection of the membrane to force fluid to pass through the porous sheet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of cavities; a second plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough and forming a plurality of individual fluid chambers for performing a plurality of tests in parallel; a first sheet interposed between the first and second plates and having a plurality of porous test regions separated by a seal integral with the first sheet to prevent fluid transfer between the test regions, periphery edges of the fluid chambers being in contact with the seal, the test regions being aligned with the fluid chambers such that each of the test regions is exposed to one of the chambers; and a flexible membrane positioned between the first plate and the first sheet such that changes in pressure within the cavities cause deflection of the membrane and force fluid to pass through the porous test regions; wherein the first sheet is held in place by a force exerted by the first and second plates when the apparatus is in an assembled configuration and removable from the first and second plates when the apparatus is in an unassembled configuration. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a sealing sheet having openings aligned with the test regions and positioned adjacent thereto. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said fluid chambers each have a fluid volume of between approximately 0.1 milliliters and 5 milliliters. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the seal is formed from an ink material. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the ink is plastisol ink. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the ink material is heat transfer printed on the first sheet. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the ink material is silk screen printed on the first sheet. 8. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate; a second plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough and forming a plurality of fluid chambers; a third plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of cavities, the second plate being positioned between the first and third plates; a first sheet interposed between the first and second plates and having a plurality of porous test regions separated by a seal integral with the first sheet to prevent fluid transfer between the test regions, the test regions being aligned with the fluid chambers such that each of the test regions is exposed to one of the chambers; and a flexible membrane sheet positioned between the second and third plates such that changes in pressure within the cavities cause deflection of the membrane and force fluid to pass through the porous test regions; wherein the first sheet is held in place by a force exerted by the first and second plates when the apparatus is in an assembled configuration. 9. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate; a second plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough and forming a plurality of fluid chambers; a third plate, the second plate being positioned between the first and third plates; a first sheet interposed between the first and second plates and having a plurality of porous test regions separated by a seal integral with the first sheet to prevent fluid transfer between the test regions, the test regions being aligned with the fluid chambers such that each of the test regions is exposed to one of the chambers; and a second sheet having dyed porous test regions interposed between the second and third plates and exposed to the fluid chambers; wherein the first sheet is held in place by a force exerted by the first and second plates when the apparatus is in an assembled configuration. 10. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of individual fluid chambers for performing a plurality of tests in parallel; a second plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of fluid cavities, periphery edges of the openings in one of the first and second plates raised relative to a surface of the plate; a first sheet having porous test regions interposed between the first and second plates such that a first surface of the first sheet is at least partially exposed to said fluid chambers; and a flexible membrane positioned between the first and second plates such that changes in pressure within the fluid chambers or cavities cause deflection of the membrane and force fluid to pass through the porous test regions, the flexible membrane configured to prevent transfer of fluid between said plurality of fluid chambers and said plurality of cavities. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the test regions are separated by a seal integral with the first sheet and aligned with the fluid chambers such that each of the test regions is exposed to one of said fluid chambers. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein at least one of the plates includes a pressure inlet for receiving pressure and a plurality of passages in communication with the pressure inlet and said fluid chambers. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the at least one of the plates includes an inlet for receiving pressure or vacuum and a plurality of passages in communication with the inlet and said cavities. 14. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of fluid chambers; a second plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of cavities; a first sheet having porous test regions interposed between the first and second plates such that a first surface of the first sheet is at least partially exposed to said fluid chambers; a second sheet having dyed porous test regions interposed between the first and second plates; and a flexible membrane positioned between the first and second plates such that changes in pressure within the fluid chambers or cavities cause deflection of the membrane and force fluid to pass through the porous test regions. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the first and second sheets are positioned immediately adjacent one another. 16. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate having openings extending at least partially therethrough to form a plurality of cavities; a second plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough and forming a plurality of individual fluid chambers for performing a plurality of tests in parallel; a first sheet interposed between the first and second plates and having a plurality of porous test regions, the test regions being aligned with the fluid chambers such that each of the test regions is exposed to one of the chambers; and a liquid impermeable flexible membrane positioned between the first and second plates such that changes in pressure within the cavities cause deflection of the membrane and force fluid to pass through the porous test regions. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a sealing sheet having openings aligned with the test regions and positioned adjacent thereto. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said fluid chambers each have a fluid volume of between approximately 0.1 milliliters and 5 milliliters. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said plurality of porous test regions comprise a woven fabric. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the woven fabric is formed at least partially from cotton. 21. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said plurality of porous test regions are separated by a seal integral with the first sheet. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the seal is formed from an ink material. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the ink material is heat transfer printed on the first sheet. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the ink material is silk screen printed on the first sheet. 25. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a first plate; a second plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough and forming a plurality of individual fluid chambers for performing a plurality of tests in parallel; a first sheet interposed between the first and second plates and having a plurality of porous test regions separated by a seal integral with the first sheet to prevent fluid transfer between the test regions, the test regions being aligned with the fluid chambers such that each of the test regions is exposed to one of the chambers; and a second sheet having dyed porous test regions interposed between the first and second plates; wherein the first sheet is held in place by a force exerted by the first and second plates when the apparatus is in an assembled configuration and removable from the first and second plates when the apparatus is in an unassembled configuration. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein at least one of the plates includes a pressure inlet for receiving pressure and a plurality of passages in communication with the pressure inlet and said fluid chambers. 