Plate and electrode assemblies include configurations allowing for relatively uniform electric field production. The electrodes may comprise strips of conductive material plated onto the bottom surface of sample wells or they may comprise plate electrodes extending down into the well. In some embodiments, the electric field strength varies by less than about 10% from a mean field intensity over at least about 20% of the surface area of the bottom surface of a sample well.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assay plate and electrode assembly, comprising: at least one sample well having electrodes placed therein, wherein said electrodes are substantially parallel, non-overlapping strips positioned substantially parallel to the bottom surface of the well; and an electrical stimulation generator configured to modulate cells' transmembrane potentials without electropermeabilization of the cells' membranes by applying a potential difference to said electrodes to provide a non-rotating electric field adjacent to said bottom surface that varies by less than about 10% from a mean field intensity over at least about 20% of the surface area of said bottom surface. 2. The assembly of claim 1, comprising two electrodes per sample well. 3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said bottom surface comprises a high optical transmittance portion. 4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein said high transmittance portion is made from a material selected from the group consisting of glass, quartz, cycloolefin, Aclar, polypropylene, polyethylene and polystyrene. 5. The assembly of claim 3, wherein said high transmittance portion exhibits less fluorescence when excited with UV light in the range of 250 nm to 400 nm than polystyrene. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said plate comprises up to 96 wells. 7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said plate comprises greater than 96 wells. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein said plate comprises greater than 384 wells. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are made of a material selected from the group consisting of gold, platinum, palladium, chromium, molybdenum, iridium, tungsten, tantalum and titanium. 10. An assay apparatus comprising: a sample well; a first pair of electrodes positioned within said sample well, wherein said first pair of electrodes are substantially planar, substantially parallel to each other, and substantially perpendicular to the bottom surface of the well; at least one additional electrode positioned within said sample well, wherein said at least one additional electrode is substantially planar and substantially parallel to said first pair of electrodes; and an electrical stimulation generator configured to apply a potential difference to the first pair of electrodes and the at least one additional electrode to provide a non-rotating electric field having a strength high enough to modulate cells' transmembrane potentials but not high enough to cause electropermeabilization of the cells' membranes. 11. The assay apparatus of claim 10, wherein said at least one additional electrode comprises second and third pairs of electrodes. 12. The assay apparatus of claim 11, wherein second and third pairs of electrodes are charged to a potential less than that of the first pair of electrodes. 13. The assay apparatus of claim 10, wherein said electrodes are positioned with respect to the bottom surface of the well to provide an electric field adjacent to said bottom surface that varies by less than about 10% from a mean field intensity over at least about 20% of the surface area of said bottom surface. 14. An assay plate and electrode assembly, comprising: at least one sample well having electrodes placed therein, wherein said electrodes are substantially planar, substantially parallel to each other, substantially perpendicular to the bottom surface of the well, and spaced from the bottom surface of the well a distance of about 0.1 mm to 0.5 mm, and an electrical stimulation generator configured to modulate cells' transmembrane potentials without electropermeabilization of the cell membranes by applying a potential difference to the electrodes to provide an electric field adjacent to said bottom surface of the well that varies by less than 10% from a mean field intensity over at least 20% of the surface area of the bottom surface. 15. The assembly of claim 14 wherein said distance is about 0.1 mm. 16. The assembly of claim 14 wherein two of said electrodes are positioned on opposing sides of said sample well. 17. The assembly of claim 14, comprising two electrodes per sample well. 18. The assembly of claim 14, comprising more than two electrodes per sample well. 19. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said bottom surface comprises a high optical transmittance portion. 20. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said high transmittance portion is made from a material selected from the group consisting of glass, quartz, cycloolefin, Aclar, polypropylene, polyethylene and polystyrene. 21. The assembly of claim 20, wherein said high transmittance portion exhibits less fluorescence when excited with UV light in the range of 250 nm to 400 nm than polystyrene. 22. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said plate comprises up to 96 wells. 23. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said plate comprises greater than 96 wells. 24. The assembly of claim 23, wherein said plate comprises greater than 384 wells. 25. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said electrodes are made of a material selected from the group consisting of gold, platinum, palladium, chromium, molybdenum, iridium, tungsten, tantalum and titanium. 26. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said electrodes are separated by a gap within the range of about 1 to 4 mm. 27. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said electrodes are separated by a gap within the range of about 0.1 to 1 mm. 28. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said electrodes are separated by a gap within the range of about 0.01 to 0.1 mm. 29. The assembly of claim 14, further comprising at least one insulator. 30. The assembly of claim 29 wherein said at least one insulator is positioned between two of said electrodes, and said insulator is substantially planar and substantially perpendicular to said electrodes. 31. The assembly of claim 30 wherein said at least one insulator comprises two insulators that are substantially perpendicular to the bottom surface of said well. 32. The assembly of claim 30 wherein said at least one insulator is substantially parallel to the bottom surface of said well. 