Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for automated withdrawal of a fluid from a container, the apparatus comprising: a probe comprising a surface defining a sample-cavity and an inlet port for fluid communication between said sample cavity and the fluid in the container, a microprocessor in control communication with said probe for controlling three-dimensional motion of said probe between various spatial addresses, a pump in fluid communication with said probe for withdrawing the fluid into said cavity of said probe, and a temperature-control element in thermal communication with said probe for maintaining said fluid residing in said cavity of said probe at a predetermined temperature or within a predetermined range of temperatures, wherein said temperature control element is a fluid-type heat exchanger heating element in adjacent proximity to said sample cavity of said probe. 2. An apparatus for automated withdrawal or delivery of a fluid from or to a container, the apparatus comprising: a probe comprising a surface defining a sample cavity having a volume from about 0.1 .mu.l to about 1 ml and an inlet port for fluid communication between said sample cavity and the fluid in the container, a microprocessor for controlling three-dimensional motion of said probe between various spatial addresses, a pump for withdrawing said fluid from said container into said cavity of said probe, or expelling said fluid from said cavity of said injection probe into said container, and a temperature-control element in thermal communication with said probe for maintaining said fluid residing in said cavity of said probe at a predetermined temperature or within a predetermined range of temperatures, wherein said temperature control element is a fluid-type heat exchanger heating element in adjacent proximity to said sample cavity of said probe. 3. An apparatus for automated withdrawal of a fluid in a container, the apparatus comprising: a movable probe having a body defining a sample cavity, and an inlet port for fluid communication between said sample cavity and said fluid in said container, a microprocessor for controlling three-dimensional motion of said movable probe between various spatial addresses, a pump for withdrawing said fluid from said container into said cavity of said movable probe, and a temperature-control element encased within said body of said movable probe, and in adjacent proximity to said sample cavity of said movable probe for maintaining said fluid residing in said cavity of said movable probe at a predetermined temperature or within a predetermined range of temperatures. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a spatially separated library of fluids that are spatially addressable by the three-dimensional motion of said movable probe as controlled by said microprocessor. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said spatially separated library includes a common library substrate. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a support arm, wherein said movable probe is mounted on said support arm. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a translation station for providing three-dimensional motion of said probe. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a thermocouple encased within said body of said movable probe for temperature monitoring or control. 9. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said temperature-control element is a heating element for maintaining said fluid residing in said movable probe at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said temperature-control element is a heating element for maintaining said fluid residing in said movable probe at a temperature of not less than about 100.degree. C. 11. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said temperature-control element is a heating element for maintaining said fluid residing in said movable probe at a temperature of not less than about 125.degree. C. 12. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said temperature-control element is a heating element for maintaining said fluid residing in said movable probe at a temperature of not less than about 150.degree. C. 13. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said temperature-control element is a cooling element. 14. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said probe further comprises a solvent port in fluid communication between a solvent supply line and said sample cavity. 15. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising: a flow characterization system; and a port in fluid communication with said flow characterization system, and spatially addressable by the three dimensional motion of said probe as controlled by said microprocessor for establishing fluid communication between said probe and said port. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said port is selected from the group consisting of loading ports and injection ports. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said flow characterization system is a high performance liquid chromatography system. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said flow characterization system is a flow injection analysis system. 19. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said temperature control element is a resistive-heating element adjacent to said sample cavity of said probe. 20. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said resistive-heating element is a wire. 21. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said temperature control element is a fluid-type heat exchanger heating element in adjacent proximity to said sample cavity of said probe. 22. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said sample cavity has a volume from about 0.1 .mu.l to about 1 ml. 23. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said pump is adapted to dispense said fluid from said cavity of said probe. 