An integrated process tool for chemical mechanical processing, cleaning and drying a semiconductor workpiece is provided. The integrated process tool includes a CMP module and a cleaning and drying module. After being processed, the workpiece is transported from the CMP module to the cleaning and drying module using a movable housing. In the cleaning and drying module, a cleaning mechanism is used to clean the workpiece while the workpiece is rotated and held by a support stucture of the movable housing. A drying mechanism of the cleaning and drying module picks up the workpiece from the moveable housing and spin dries it. Throughout the CMP process, cleaning and drying, the processed surface of the wafer faces down.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of cleaning and drying a workpiece in a process module having a cleaning and drying section and a process section, comprising: placing the workpiece on a movable housing; moving the movable housing into the cleaning and drying section of the process module; cleaning a surface of the workpiece using a cleaning fluid in the cleaning and drying section; transferring the workpiece from the moveable housing to a drying mechanism having a spinning wheel; and drying the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising processing the surface of the workpiece in the process section adjacent the cleaning and drying section of the process module prior to the step of placing. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising transporting the workpiece to the process module on another movable housing. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein, the steps of processing, placing, moving, cleaning, transferring and drying are performed while the surface of the workpiece faces down. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the processing step comprises chemical mechanical polishing. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the processing step comprises electrochemical mechanical processing. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising rotating the workpiece using a workpiece rotating mechanism while applying the step of cleaning. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising drying the workpiece by rotating the spinning wheel. 9. An apparatus for processing, cleaning and drying a semiconductor workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a process area to process a surface of the workpiece; a movable housing to transport the workpiece from the process area to a cleaning and drying area, wherein the movable housing has a support structure adapted to hold the workpiece, wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of supports having at least two idle supports and one drive support; and a cleaning mechanism for receiving the workpiece from the moveable housing and for drying the workpiece. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the drive support is connected to a workpiece rotating mechanism for rotating the workpiece. 11. An apparatus for processing, cleaning and drying a semiconductor workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a process area to process a surface of the workpiece; a movable housing to transport the workpiece from the process area to a cleaning and drying area, wherein the movable housing has a support structure adapted to hold the workpiece; and a cleaning mechanism for receiving the workpiece from the moveable housing and for drying the workpiece, wherein the workpiece is held and cleaned on the movable housing while the surface of the workpiece faces down. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the drying mechanism receives and dries the wafer while the surface of the workpiece faces down. 13. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a movable housing having a plurality of supports; a plurality of holding spools for holding the workpiece during a cleaning process, wherein each holding spool is connected to one of the plurality of supports; means for rotating the plurality of supports such that the workpiece is rotated during the cleaning process; a rotatable wafer transport device for receiving the workpiece from the movable housing so that the workpiece can be dried during a drying process, the transport device having clamps and a release mechanism for securing and releasing the workpiece; and means for rotating the workpiece during the drying process. 14. A system for operating upon a wafer comprising: a wafer handling area which receives the wafer; a first processing module having a chemical mechanical processing apparatus which chemically mechanically polishes the wafer, the first processing module includes a cleaning and drying apparatus which cleans and dries the wafer; a first movable input housing which moves the wafer between the wafer handling area and the first processing module; and a second moveable housing which moves the wafer between the chemical mechanical processing apparatus and the cleaning and drying apparatus. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising: a wafer buffer area in proximity to an exit of the cleaning and drying apparatus of the first processing module; a wafer receiving area in proximity of the wafer buffer area; and a first wafer handling robot wherein: the second movable housing transfers the wafer from the cleaning and drying apparatus of the first processing module to the wafer buffer area; and the first wafer handling robot transfers the wafer from the wafer buffer area to the wafer receiving area. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the wafer receiving area is configurable to receive a cassette capable of holding a plurality of wafers. 