A method for providing human input to a computer which allows a user to interact with a display connected to the computer. A first target is placed on a first portion of the user's body, whereby an electro-optical sensor senses data related to the location of the first target and data related to the location of a second portion of the user's body. The first and second portions of the user's body are movable relative to each other. An output of the electro-optical sensor provides an input of a computer. The location of the first target and the location of the second portion of the user's body are then determined, and the output of the computer to the display based upon the determined locations are varied for contemporaneous viewing by the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of computer based interactive gaming comprising the steps of: providing a computer controlled display screen having an extensive surface; electro-optically determining, using at least one TV camera, a position of one or more points on a game player, wherein said one or more points is recognized by color or shape, and wherein said determining step is performed at a rate of at least 30 times per second; providing data input relative to the determined position to said computer; and controlling a displayed image provided on said screen with said computer in response to said determined position of said game player. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determining step is accomplished with more than one TV camera. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determining step is accomplished with only one TV camera. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said displayed image is substantially lifesize. 5. A method of interactive gaming comprising the steps of: providing a screen or other surface on which video images are displayed relating to a game being played; obtaining, using at least one TV camera, one or more images containing data concerning one or more objects used in said game; from said image data, determining the location of one or more points on said one or more objects, wherein said one or more points is recognized by color or shape, and wherein said determining step is performed at a rate of at least 30 times per second; from said determined locations, determining at least one game parameter; and using said game parameter, changing a video image displayed related to the game. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein location of a point on an article of clothing worn by a person is determined. 7. A method according to claim 5, wherein said screen is a projection TV screen. 8. A method according to claim 5, wherein said object is an artifact that humans use in gaming. 9. A method according to claim 5, wherein said screen is capable of withstanding severe impacts of commonly used sports gaming objects used for the games in question. 10. A method according to claim 5, wherein said display is viewed in 3-D by a user. 11. A method according to claim 5, wherein said object is a projectile whose trajectory is determined. 12. A method according to claim 5, wherein the location of a player or portion thereof is continuously tracked, and varying video imagery is displayed as a result of locations determined. 13. A method according to claim 5, wherein data concerning location of points on both persons and objects used in the game are determined. 14. A method according to claim 5, wherein location of a point is determined in 3 dimensions. 15. A method according to claim 5, wherein said point is of high contrast relative to its surroundings. 16. A method according to claim 5, wherein said determining step is accomplished with only one TV camera. 17. A method according to claim 5, wherein said TV camera views light reflected from said one or more points. 18. A method according to claim 5, wherein said one or more points is a group of points on a portion of the game player, and wherein said determining step additionally determines orientation of the portion of the player using the group of points. 19. A method of interactive gaming comprising the steps of: providing video images on a display screen with which a player of a game interacts; obtaining, using a single TV camera, one or more images containing data concerning one or more players of said game; from said image data, determining the location of one or more points on said player at a rate of at least 30 times per second; from said determined locations, determining the relation of one or more points on said player to the displayed image on the screen; and controlling the displayed image in accordance with said relation so determined. 20. A method according to claim 19, wherein said object is an artifact that humans use in gaming. 21. A method according to claim 19, wherein said one or more points is a group of points on a portion of the game player, and wherein said determining step additionally determines orientation of the portion of the player using the group of points. 22. A method according to claim 19, wherein said one or more points are of high contrast. 23. A method according to claim 19, wherein said determining step determines position in three dimensions. 24. A method according to claim 19, wherein said TV camera views light reflected from said one or more points. 25. A method according to claim 19, wherein said one or more points is recognized by color or shape. 26. A method according to claim 19, wherein said display screen is a projection display. 27. A method according to claim 19, wherein said determining step continuously determines the position of the one or more points, and wherein said controlling step also varies video imagery displayed on said screen as a result of the continuously determined positions. 28. A method of interactive gaming comprising the steps of: providing video images on a display screen with which a player of a game interacts; obtaining, using at least one TV camera, one or more images containing data concerning one or more players of said game, or of objects used in said game, wherein said one or more points is recognized by color or shape; from said image data, determining the location of one or more points on said persons or objects, and wherein said determining step is performed at a rate of at least 30 times per second; from said determined locations, determining the relation of one or more points on said player or object to the displayed image on the screen; and controlling the displayed image in accordance with said relation so determined. 29. A method according to claim 1, wherein said one or more points is a group of points on a portion of the game player, and wherein said determining step additionally determines orientation of the portion of the player using the group of points. 30. A method according to claim 1, wherein said one or more points are of high contract. 31. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determining step determines position in three dimensions. 32. A method according to claim 1, wherein said TV camera views light reflected from said one or more points. 33. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determining step also determines a position of points on an object. 34. A method according to claim 1, wherein said display screen has a three dimensional display. 35. A method according to claim 1, wherein said display screen is a projection display. 36. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determining step continuously determines the position of the one or more points, and wherein said controlling step also varies video imagery displayed on said screen as a result of the continuously determined positions. 37. A method according to claim 1, wherein said one or more points is located on the player's head, finger, hand or foot. 38. A method according to claim 28, wherein said one or more points is a group of points on a portion of the game player, and wherein said determining step additionally determines orientation of the portion of the player using the group of points. 39. A method according to claim 28, wherein said one or more points are of high contract. 40. A method according to claim 28, wherein said determining step determines position in three dimensions. 41. A method according to claim 28, wherein said TV camera views light reflected from said one or more points. 42. A method according to claim 28, wherein said determining step is accomplished with only one TV camera. 43. A method according to claim 28, wherein said determining step also determines a position of points on an object. 44. A method according to claim 28, wherein said display screen has a three dimensional display. 45. A method according to claim 28, wherein said display screen is a projection display. 46. A method according to claim 28, wherein said determining step continuously determines the position of the one or more points, and wherein said controlling step also varies video imagery displayed on said screen as a result of the continuously determined positions. 