A substrate protection and transport system and method for transitioning a substrate from atomospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool. The system includes one or more removable substrate transport cassettes. Each cassette has at least one vent and at least one filter. The system further includes an end effector coupled to a robotic arm to enable the substrate to be positioned within one of the cassettes, thereby forming a cassette-substrate arrangement. The system further includes a box having a base and a lid. The box holds one or more of the cassette-substrate arrangements. In this way, a box-cassette-substrate arrangement is provided. An out of vacuum storage rack having shelves for holding the box-cassette-substrate arrangement is also provided. Still further, an entry-exit module having a loadlock is provided for transitioning the cassette-substrate arrangement from atmospheric pressure to vacuum. To transport the substrate, the substrate is first loaded into a removable substrate transport cassette. Next, the cassette-substrate arrangement is loaded into the box. The box-cassette-substrate arrangement is then transported to a shelf of an out of vacuum storage rack. During further processing, the cassette-substrate arrangement is unloaded from the box-cassette-substrate arrangement. The cassette-substrate arrangement is then loaded into a loadlock where it can be transitioned from atmospheric pressure to vacuum. During transitioning, the filters and vents restrict particles within the loadlock from entering the cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate transport system for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool comprising: at least one removable substrate transport cassette, each removable substrate transport cassette having at least one vent and at least one filter; a substrate transporter having a tray and at least one tray locator that supports the substrate; an end effector, coupled to a robotic arm, that engages said substrate transporter to enable the substrate to be positioned within one of said removable substrate transport cassettes to form a cassette-substrate arrangement; and a seal, coupled to said substrate transporter, that seals an opening of said at least one removable substrate transport cassette to a flange after the substrate transporter has been positioned within. 2. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein said seal includes a vacuum system to attach said removable substrate transport cassette to said flange. 3. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein said seal includes a magnet system to attach said at lease one removable substrate transport cassette to said flange. 4. The substrate transport system of claim 1, wherein said at least one vent and at least one filter are located opposite a patterned side of the substrate. 5. The substrate transport system of claim 1, further comprising an engaging tab coupled to said flange, said engaging tab having one or more tab locators. 6. The substrate transport system of claim 5, further comprising one or more end effector locators that engage said one or more tab locators and thereby transport said cassette-substrate arrangement. 7. The substrate transport system of claim 1, further comprising a box having a base and a lid and wherein one or more of said cassette-substrate arrangements are positioned within said box to form a box-cassette-substrate arrangement. 8. The substrate transport system of claim 7, wherein said box is a standard mechanical interface. 9. The substrate transport system of claim 7, further comprising a first storage rack having one or more shelves that hold said box-cassette-substrate arrangement. 10. The substrate transport system of claim 9, wherein said first storage rack is an out of vacuum storage rack. 11. The substrate transport system of claim 7, further comprising a detacher wherein said lid is detached from said base. 12. The substrate transport system of claim 11, wherein said detacher is a de-podding station. 13. The substrate transport system of claim 11, wherein said detacher is a standard mechanical interface de-podding station. 14. The substrate transport system of claim 7, further comprising a loadlock that receives said cassette-substrate arrangement after its removal from said box-cassette-substrate arrangement. 15. The substrate transport system of claim 14, further comprising a process chamber that receives said cassette-substrate arrangement after said cassette-substrate arrangement has been transitioned from atmospheric pressure to vacuum, said at least one vent and said at least one filter restricting particles within said loadlock from entering said cassette-substrate arrangement and reaching a surface of the substrate during transitioning. 16. The substrate transport system of claim 15, further comprising a second storage rack located within said process chamber, said second storage rack having one or more shelves that hold said cassette-substrate arrangement. 17. The substrate transport system of claim 16, wherein said second storage rack is an in-vacuum library. 18. A method for transporting a substrate from an indexer to a mount in a lithography tool, comprising: (a) engaging a recess of a cassette-substrate arrangement with a locking device, thereby coupling a shell portion of said cassette-substrate arrangement to the indexer; (b) engaging a substrate transporter of said cassette-substrate arrangement with an end effector to enable the substrate transporter to be withdrawn from said cassette-substrate arrangement and thereafter transported; (c) transporting said substrate transporter to a mount; and (d) placing said substrate on said mount prior to performing lithographic exposure. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising returning the substrate to said substrate transporter and returning said substrate transporter to said cassette-substrate arrangement after performing lithographic exposure. 20. A substrate transport system for transitioning a substrate from atmospheric pressure to vacuum in a lithography tool, comprising: one or more cassette-substrate arrangements, each cassette-substrate arrangement including a removable substrate transport cassette containing a substrate and having at least one vent and at least one filter; a box having a base and a lid, wherein said box holds one or more of said cassette-substrate arrangements to form a box-cassette-substrate arrangement; a first storage rack having one or more shelves for holding said box-cassette-substrate arrangement; a loadlock that transitions said one or more cassette-substrate arrangements from atmospheric pressure to vacuum, said at least one vent and said at least one filter restricting particles within said loadlock from entering said one or more cassette-substrate arrangements and reaching a surface of the substrate; and an end effector, coupled to a robotic arm, that engages said one or more cassette-substrate arrangements for transport to a process chamber. 21. The substrate transport system of claim 20, further comprising a second storage rack, located within said process chamber, to which said end effector transports said one or more cassette-substrate arrangements. 22. The substrate transport system of claim 21, further comprising a mount, located within said process chamber, to which said end effector transports at least a portion of said one or more cassette-substrate arrangements. 