A process for applying a metallization interconnect structure to a semiconductor workpiece having a barrier layer deposited on a surface thereof is set forth. The process includes the forming of an ultra-thin metal seed layer on the barrier layer. The ultra-thin seed layer having a thickness of less than or equal to about 500 Angstroms. The ultra-thin seed layer is then enhanced by depositing additional metal thereon to provide an enhanced seed layer. The enhanced seed layer has a thickness at all points on sidewalls of substantially all recessed features distributed within the workpiece that is equal to or greater than about 10% of the nominal seed layer thickness over an exteriorly disposed surface of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use in manufacturing micro-sized structures in submicron micro-recesses on a microelectronic workpiece having a first layer over the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the first layer, the seed layer being a non-continuous layer having voids, wherein the apparatus comprises: a first reactor including a workpiece support and a reaction chamber adapted to hold a first electrochemical processing solution containing copper, the first reactor disposed to accept the microelectronic workpiece with the seed layer, and the first reactor being operated to electrochemically provide a conformal seed layer that covers at least a substantial portion of the first layer; and a second reactor including a workpiece support and a reactor chamber adapted to hold a second electrochemical processing fluid containing copper, the second reactor disposed to accept the microelectronic workpiece with the conformal seed layer, the second reactor being operated to electroplate additional copper onto the conformal seed layer to fill the micro-recesses on the workpiece, wherein the first reactor is operated to repair the seed layer using an electroplating process. 2. An apparatus for use in manufacturing micro-sized structures in submicron micro-recesses on a microelectronic workpiece having a first layer over the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the first layer, the seed layer being a non-continuous layer having voids, wherein the apparatus comprises: a first reactor including a workpiece support and a reaction chamber adapted to hold a first electrochemical processing solution containing copper, the first reactor disposed to accept the microelectronic workpiece with the seed layer, and the first reactor being operated to electrochemically provide a conformal seed layer that covers at least a substantial portion of the first layer; and a second reactor including a workpiece support and a reactor chamber adapted to hold a second electrochemical processing fluid containing copper, the second reactor disposed to accept the microelectronic workpiece with the conformal seed layer, the second reactor being operated to electroplate additional copper onto the conformal seed layer to fill the micro-recesses on the workpiece, wherein the first reactor is operated to form the conformal seed layer using an electroplating process that employs an alkaline electroplating solution. 3. An apparatus for use in manufacturing micro-sized structures in submicron micro-recesses on a microelectronic workpiece having a first layer over the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the first layer, the seed layer being a non-continuous layer having voids, wherein the apparatus comprises: a first reactor including a workpiece support and a reaction chamber adapted to hold a first electrochemical processing solution containing copper, the first reactor disposed to accept the microelectronic workpiece with the seed layer, and the first reactor being operated to electrochemically provide a conformal seed layer that covers at least a substantial portion of the first layer; and a second reactor including a workpiece support and a reactor chamber adapted to hold a second electrochemical processing fluid containing copper, the second reactor disposed to accept the microelectronic workpiece with the conformal seed layer, the second reactor being operated to electroplate additional copper onto the conformal seed layer to fill the micro-recesses on the workpiece, wherein the second reactor is operated to deposit the copper onto the conformal seed layer using an electroplating process that employs an acidic electroplating solution. 4. An electrochemical processing tool for use in applying copper to form microelectronic circuits or components in submicron micro-recesses on a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, the microelectronic workpiece comprising a first layer over the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the first layer, the copper seed layer being a non-continuous layer having voids, the tool comprising: an input section disposed to receive the microelectronic workpiece with the non-continuous seed layer; and a reactor disposed in the tool, the reactor including a workpiece support and a reactor chamber adapted to hold an electrochemical processing influence, the reactor being adapted to add copper to the non-continuous seed layer to form a conformal copper seed layer at a predetermined thickness for subsequent electrochemical deposition of bulk copper, wherein the reactor is adapted to form the conformal seed layer using an electroplating process. 5. A tool for electrochemically depositing copper into submicron micro-recesses on a workpiece having a nonuniform copper seed layer, the apparatus comprising: an automated robotic transfer mechanism; a plurality of electrochemical processing stations arranged about the robot so that the robot can automatically transfer workpieces to/from the processing stations, wherein individual processing stations have a workpiece holder and a cell containing a plating solution including copper, and wherein the processing stations are configured to operate in a seed layer enhancement mode in which additional copper is electroplated onto the workpiece to enhance the seed layer for filling the recesses and a bulk plating mode in which copper is electroplated onto the workpiece until the recesses are filled. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the electrochemical processing stations include a first processing station configured to operate in the seed layer enhancement mode and a second processing station configured to operate in the bulk plating mode. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the first electrochemical processing station comprises a first workpiece holder having first electrical contacts and a first electroplating solution comprising an alkaline plating solution, and the second electrochemical processing station comprises a second workpiece holder having second electrical contacts and a second electroplating solution comprising an acidic plating solution. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the electrochemical processing stations include at least one processing station that can operate in the enhancement mode to enhance the seed layer and then operate in the bulk plating mode to fill the recesses. 9. A method of forming copper interconnect structures, comprising: providing a workpiece having a dielectric layer, a plurality of submicron micro-recesses in the dielectric layer, a first layer that conforms to the submicron micro-recesses, and a copper seed layer that conforms to the first layer, the seed layer having nonuniformities such that the seed layer is insufficient for filling the micro-recesses; enhancing the seed layer with additional copper to form a conformal seed layer that covers substantially all of the first layer by electroplating additional copper onto the workpiece with an alkaline solution containing copper; and electroplating copper onto the conformal seed layer in an acidic solution containing copper to fill the micro-recesses with copper. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the alkaline solution includes a polycarboxylic acid. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the polycarboxylic acid comprises citric acid. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising rinsing the workpiece after contacting the workpiece with the alkaline solution and before contacting the workpiece with the acidic solution. 13. A method of forming copper interconnect structures, comprising: providing a workpiece having a dielectric layer, a plurality of submicron micro-recesses in the dielectric layer, a first layer that conforms to the submicron micro-recesses, and a copper seed layer that conforms to the first layer, the seed layer being approximately 50 .ANG. to 500 .ANG. thick and having nonuniform voids and/or spikes such that the seed layer is insufficient for filling the micro-recesses; enhancing seed layer uniformity with additional copper and reducing copper oxide on the seed layer to metallic copper to form a conformal seed layer that covers substantially all of the first layer by electroplating additional copper onto the workpiece with an alkaline solution; and electroplating copper onto the conformal seed layer in an acidic solution containing copper to fill the micro-recesses with copper. 14. A method of forming copper interconnect structures in submicron micro-recesses on a workpiece having a barrier layer conforming to the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the barrier layer, the seed layer having nonuniformities such that the seed layer is insufficient for filling the micro-recesses, the method comprising: adhering additional copper to any exposed areas of the barrier layer and the seed layer to enhance uniformity of the seed layer by contacting the workpiece with a first solution containing copper in the presence of an electric field to form a conformal seed layer that covers substantially all of the barrier layer; and filling the micro-recesses by electroplating copper over the conformal seed layer in a second solution containing copper, wherein the first solution is different from the second solution. 15. A method of forming copper interconnect structures in submicron micro-recesses on a workpiece having a barrier layer conforming to the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the barrier layer, the seed layer being a nonuniform layer insufficient for filling the micro-recesses in a bulk plating operation, the method comprising: adhering additional copper to the seed layer and any exposed areas of the barrier layer and reducing copper oxide on the seed layer to metallic copper by contacting the workpiece with a first solution containing copper in the presence of an electric field to form a conformal metallic copper seed layer that covers substantially all of the barrier layer; and filling the micro-recesses by electroplating copper over the conformal seed layer in a second solution containing copper, wherein the first solution is different from the second solution. 16. A method of forming copper interconnect structures in submicron micro-recesses on a workpiece having a barrier layer conforming to the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the barrier layer, the seed layer being a nonuniform layer insufficient for filling the micro-recesses in a bulk plating operation, the method comprising: reducing copper oxide on the seed layer to metallic copper and adhering additional copper to any exposed areas of the barrier layer to fill any voids within the seed layer by contacting the seed layer with a first solution containing copper in the presence of an electric field to form a conformal metallic copper seed layer that covers substantially all of the barrier layer; and electroplating additional copper over the conformal seed layer to fill the micro-recesses by contacting the workpiece with a second solution containing copper, wherein the second solution is different than the first solution. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the first solution comprises an alkaline solution. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising rinsing the workpiece after reducing the copper oxide on the nonuniform seed layer to metallic copper and before electroplating additional copper over the conformal seed layer in the second solution. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the first solution is an alkaline solution containing citric acid. 20. A method of forming copper interconnect structures in submicron micro-recesses having widths less than 0.5 .mu.m on a workpiece having a barrier layer conforming to the micro-recesses and a copper seed layer over the barrier layer, the seed layer being a nonuniform layer insufficient for filling the micro-recesses in a bulk plating operation, the method comprising: reducing copper oxide on the seed layer to metallic copper and filling any voids within the nonuniform seed layer by contacting the nonuniform seed layer with a first solution containing copper in the presence of an electric field to form a conformal seed layer that covers substantially all of the barrier layer; and electroplating additional copper over the conformal seed layer to fill the micro-recesses by contacting the workpiece with a second solution containing copper, wherein the second solution is different than the first solution. 21. A method of forming copper interconnect structures, comprising: providing a semiconductor workpiece having a dielectric layer, a plurality of submicron micro-recesses having a width less than 0.5 .mu.m in the dielectric layer, a barrier layer that conforms to the micro-recesses, and a copper seed layer over the barrier layer, the seed layer being a nonuniform layer; making the seed layer more uniform by depositing additional copper onto the seed layer in an alkaline solution containing copper in the presence of an electric field; removing the workpiece from the alkaline solution and rinsing the workpiece; and filling the micro-recesses with copper by electroplating copper into the micro-recesses in an acidic solution containing copper. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the alkaline solution includes a polycarboxylic acid. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the polycarboxylic acid comprises citric acid. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising reducing copper oxide on the nonuniform seed layer to metallic copper and adhering additional copper to exposed areas of the barrier layer. 25. A method of forming copper damascene interconnect structures, comprising: providing a workpiece having a dielectric layer, a plurality of trenches having submicron widths, a barrier layer conforming to the trenches, and a copper seed layer over the barrier layer, the seed layer being a nonuniform layer; contacting the seed layer with an alkaline solution containing copper in the presence of an electric field to form a conformal seed layer that covers substantially all of the barrier layer; removing the workpiece from the alkaline solution; rinsing the workpiece; electroplating the conformal copper seed layer in an acidic solution to fill the trenches with copper; and planarizing the workpiece to form inlaid copper lines in the trenches. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the alkaline solution includes a polycarboxylic acid. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein the polycarboxylic acid comprises citric acid. 28. The method of claim 25 wherein contacting the seed layer with an alkaline solution further comprises reducing copper oxide on the seed layer to metallic copper. 29. The method of claim 25 wherein contacting the seed layer with an alkaline solution further comprises adhering additional copper to areas of the barrier layer exposed within voids of the seed layer. 30. The method of claim 25 wherein contacting the seed layer with an alkaline solution further comprises reducing copper oxide on the seed layer to metallic copper and adhering additional copper to the barrier layer. 