Annular brake disc preform (15), wherein 40 to 80 layers of reinforcement fibers of at least two different lengths (11, 19) ranging from 10 60 mm are distributed in a planar gradient throughout the body of the preform, with the reinforcement fibers located near the exterior planes of the disc being predominately shorter fibers (11) and with the reinforcement fibers located in the central planes of the disc being predominately longer fibers (19). Also, process of making carbon-carbon composite preforms by: providing chopped pitch or PAN fibers (11, 19) of at least two different lengths; directing a robotic spraying apparatus to spray the chopped fibers into an annular mold (5) in 40 to 80 concentric iterations of chopped fiber deposition to provide a matrix of fibers in the mold; depositing a curable binder into the mold to intermix the binder with the fiber matrix; compressing the fiber matrix and curable binder within the mold; curing the binder to form a preform matrix; filling the preform matrix with pitch to form a pitch matrix; and subjecting the pitch matrix to chemical vapor deposition to form a carbon-carbon composite preform (15).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process of making a carbon-carbon composite part, which process comprises the steps of: (a) providing chopped fibers selected from the group consisting of pitch fibers and poly(acrylonitrile) fibers; (b) directing a robotic spraying apparatus to spray said chopped fibers into an annular mold to provide a bed of fibers in said mold; (c) depositing a curable binder in said mold so that said binder is intermixed with said fiber bed; (d) compressing said fiber bed and curable binder within said mold; (e) curing said binder to form a preform; (f) filling said preform with pitch; and (g) subjecting the pitch to chemical vapor deposition to form a carbon-carbon composite part. 2. A process of making a carbon-carbon composite part, which process comprises the steps of: (a) providing chopped fibers of at least two different lengths selected from the group consisting of pitch fibers and poly(acrylonitrile) fibers; (b) directing a robotic spraying apparatus to spray said chopped fibers into an annular mold to provide a bed of fibers in said mold, wherein said fiber bed is provided by multiple concentric iterations of chopped fiber deposition in a first, bottom plane between an inner and an outer wall of said mold followed by multiple concentric iterations of chopped fiber deposition in a second, higher plane between the inner and outer wall of the mold; (c) depositing a curable binder in said mold so that said binder is intermixed with said fiber bed; (d) compressing said fiber bed and curable binder within said mold; (e) curing said binder to form a preform; (f) filling said preform with pitch; and (g) subjecting the pitch to chemical vapor deposition to form a carbon-carbon composite part. 3. The process of claim 2, wherein said preform is configured as a brake disc and wherein shorter fibers are deposited in the top areas of said brake disc preform, longer fibers are deposited in the central areas of said brake disc preform, and shorter fibers are deposited in the top areas of said brake disc preform. 4. The process of claim 3, wherein said shorter fibers range in length from 10 20 mm and wherein said longer fibers range in length from 40 60 mm. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein layers of fibers having lengths ranging from 15 50 mm are deposited in the areas between the central areas and the top and bottom areas of said brake disc preform. 6. The process of claim 1, wherein the spraying step is repeated 40 to 80 times in order to provide said fiber bed in said mold. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein binder deposition is conducted simultaneously with fiber spraying. 8. The process of claim 1, wherein the step of depositing a curable binder in said mold also deposits a particulate antioxidant in said mold. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein said curable binder is a phenolic resin powder and said particulate antioxidant is silicon carbide. 10. An annular brake disc preform, wherein reinforcement fibers of at least two different lengths are distributed throughout the body of the preform, with the reinforcement fibers located near the exterior planes of the disc being predominately the shorter fibers and with the reinforcement fibers located in the central planes of the disc being predominately the longer fibers. 11. The annular brake disc preform of claim 10, wherein said shorter fibers range in length from 10 20 mm and wherein said longer fibers range in length from 40 60 mm. 12. The annular brake disc preform of claim 11, wherein 40 to 80 layers of fibers having lengths ranging from 10 60 mm are deposited within said brake disc preform in a planar gradient in which the fiber lengths are increased from the bottom of the disc to the middle thereof and then are decreased to the top of the disc. 13. A method of improving the balance of friction, wear, and strength properties in a carbon-carbon composite brake disc of a given weight, which method comprises manufacturing said carbon-carbon composite brake disc from a preform having 40 to 80 layers of fibers ranging in length from 10 60 mm deposited within said brake disc preform in a planar gradient in which the fiber lengths are increased from the bottom of the disc to the middle thereof and then are decreased to the top of the disc. 