A hemming tool providing a plurality of rollers for forming a hem flange. The rollers are disposed on an end effector that includes a pair of links that connect a tool support to a stationary bracket. The tool support and stationary bracket are shiftably mounted relative to each other in the manner of a four-bar link and shift relative to each other against the force of a force transducer or spring that moderates the force applied by the hemming tool to a workpiece by the selected roller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot manipulated roll form hem tool, the robot having an arm with a receptacle on one end, the hem tool comprising: an end effector adapter that is adapted to be received in the receptacle on the end of the robot arm; a linkage comprising a bracket extending from the end effector, a tool support member, and two links that connect the bracket and the tool support member together as a four bar linkage; a first roller disposed on the tool support member with an axis of rotation that is at a first angular orientation relative to the tool support member; a second roller disposed on the tool support member with an axis of rotation at a second angular orientation relative to the tool support member that is different than the first angular orientation; and a force transducer operatively engaging the tool support member to limit force applied by the robot arm to the rollers through the tool support member. 2. The hem tool of claim 1 wherein the tool support member is supported by the linkage for limited movement relative to the end effector adapter and is biased by the force transducer into an extended position, wherein upon engagement by one of the rollers with a workpiece to form a hem on the workpiece the force applied to the workpiece is limited by the force transducer. 3. The hem tool of claim 1 wherein a third roller is provided on the tool support member with an axis of rotation that is at a third angular orientation that is different than the first and second angular orientations. 4. The hem tool of claim 1 wherein a fourth roller is provided on the tool support member with an axis of rotation that is at a fourth angular orientation that is different than the first, second, and third angular orientations relative to the tool support member. 5. The hem tool of claim 1 wherein one of the rollers applies a force to the force transducer that flexes in a linear direction as the roller engages a workpiece. 6. The hem tool of claim 1 wherein the rollers are disposed generally in alignment with the end effector adapter and the force transducer so that force is applied to a hem flange to be formed on a workpiece in a direction that is normal to the axis of rotation of the rollers. 7. A roll form hem tool, comprising: a linkage comprising a bracket, a tool support arm having a back end and a distal end, two links that connect the bracket and the back end together as a four bar linkage with the tool support arm being moveable relative to the bracket, and a force transducer engaging the tool support arm and the bracket to limit force applied by the tool support arm; a pre-hem roller disposed on the tool support arm at a first angular orientation relative to the tool support arm; and a final hem roller disposed on the tool support arm at a second angular orientation relative to the tool support arm that is different than the first angular orientation, wherein the tool may use the pre-hem roller to form a pre-hem bending operation and use the final hem roller to form a final hemming operation. 8. The hem tool of claim 7 wherein the tool support arm is supported by the linkage for limited movement relative to the bracket in a linear flexing action, wherein upon engagement by one of the rollers with a workpiece to form a hem on the workpiece the force applied to the workpiece is limited by the force transducer. 9. The hem tool of claim 7 wherein a second final hemming roller is provided on the tool support arm. 10. The hem tool of claim 7 wherein a second pre-hem roller is provided on the tool support arm at a different angular orientation relative to the tool support arm than the first angular orientation. 11. The hem tool of claim 7 wherein the linkage transfers a spring force from the force transducer in a linear direction to one of the rollers as the roller engages a workpiece. 12. The hem tool of claim 7 wherein the pre-hem roller and the final hemming roller are disposed generally in alignment with the force transducer so that a force applied to a workpiece by either the pre-hem roller or the final hemming roller in a direction normal to an axis of rotation of one of the rollers is transferred in a linear direction to the force transducer. 