A fully automated method is performed on a structure having a confined space. The structure has a location that is identifiable from within the confined space and from outside the confined space. A first robotic system moves a first end effector inside the confined space such that the first end effector is positioned over the location. A first vector corresponding to the location is generated. A second robotic system moves a second end effector outside the confined space such that the second end effector is positioned over the location. A second vector corresponding to the location is generated. The first and second vectors are used to move the first and second end effectors to a new location such that the first and second end effectors are in working opposition. The first and second end effectors perform a synchronous operation at the new location.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A fully automated method of performing an operation on a structure having a confined space, the structure having a location that is identifiable from within the confined space and from outside the confined space, the method comprising: using a first robotic system to move a first end effector inside the confined space such that the first end effector is positioned over the location, and generating a first vector corresponding to the location; using a second robotic system to move a second end effector outside the confined space such that the second end effector is positioned over the location, and generating a second vector corresponding to the location; using the first and second vectors to move the first and second end effectors to a new location such that the first and second end effectors are in working opposition; and using the first and second end effectors to perform the operation at the new location. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each robotic system communicates its vector to a robotic controller when a precise position has been achieved. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation includes synchronous assembly. 4. The method of claim 3, the synchronous assembly includes the second robotic system drilling a hole at the new location and inserting a fastener through the hole, and the first robotic system terminating the fastener. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising creating a magnetic attraction between the first and second end effectors so that burrless drilling of the hole is performed. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the first and second robotic system to position the first and second end effectors at a second location and generate first and second vectors corresponding to the second location, wherein the new location for the first end effector is computed with respect to the first vectors, and wherein the new location for the second end effector is computed with from the second vectors. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising computing a plurality of permanent fastener locations between the first and second locations. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein a compliant arm of the first robotic system is used to coarsely position the first end effector over the location and press the first end effector against the surface, and wherein a device attached to the first end effector is used to shift the first end effector along the surface. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein an instrumented fastener is at the location, and wherein the vectors are obtained from beacons generated by the instrumented fastener. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the structure is an aircraft wing box. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second robotic system moves the second end effector through an access port and into a confined space of an adjacent wing box. 12. An article comprising computer memory encoded with data for commanding the first and second robotic systems to perform the method of claim 1. 13. A system comprising the first and second robotic systems; and a robotic controller for causing the first and second robotic systems to perform the method of claim 1. 14. A method for positioning an end effector within a confined space of a structure, the method comprising: using a compliant robotic arm to move the end effector through an access port of the structure and into the confined space; using the robotic arm to coarsely position the end effector over a location of a surface in the confined space; using the robotic arm to press the end effector against the surface; and using a device attached to the end effector to shift the end effector along the surface to precisely position the end effector at the location. 15. A method performed on a pre-assembled wing box of an aircraft, the wing box pre-assembled with a plurality of fasteners, the method comprising using a first robotic system to move a first end effector inside the wing box over first and second fasteners, and generating first vectors for the first and second fasteners; using a second robotic system to move a second end effector outside the wing box over the first and second fasteners and generating second vectors for the first and second fasteners; and using the first and second vectors to compute permanent fastener locations between the first and second fasteners, the permanent fastener locations for the first robotic system computed from the first vectors, the permanent fastener locations for the second robotic system computed from the second vectors. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising using the first robotic system to move the first end effector to a permanent fastener location inside the wing box, using the second robotic system to move the second end effector to the corresponding permanent fastener location outside the wing box; and using the end effectors to perform a synchronous assembly operation at their respective locations. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising pre-assembling the wing box prior to using the first and second robotic systems. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the wing box is pre-assembled with instrumented fasteners; and wherein the first and second vectors are generated by sensing the orientation of beacons emanating from the first and second fasteners. 19. An article comprising computer memory encoded with data for causing the first and second robotic systems to perform the method of claim 15. 20. A system comprising the first and second robotic systems; and a robotic controller for causing the first and second robotic systems to perform the method of claim 15. 