A mooring robot which can be dock-mounted, and can also include vacuum cups for engagement with the freeboard of a ship. The robot can position the vacuum cups within a three-dimensional operating envelope. A parallel arm linkage having two parallel arms pivoted about respective axes which are parallel to the longitudinal axis of the ship are fixed to the dock for extending and retracting the vacuum cups in the transverse direction. The parallel arms are fixed to a vertical elongate guide to which the vacuum cups are slidably fixed, the parallel arms raising and lowering the vacuum cups and maintaining the guide substantially vertical. The vacuum cups are mounted for sliding in substantially horizontal track aligned parallel with the longitudinal axis of the ship for fore and aft movement of the vacuum cups. A mooring system can also include a plurality of the mooring robots being remotely controlled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mooring robot for releasably fastening a moored vessel to a dock or to a second vessel, the mooring robot including: an attractive attachment element releasably engageable with a surface for fastening the moored vessel; a substantially vertical elongate guide to which the attachment element is slidably fixed, for raising and lowering the attachment element; a substantially horizontal track to which the attractive attachment is slidably fixed, the horizontal track being aligned parallel with a longitudinal axis of the moored vessel for fore and aft movement of the attachment element; a parallel arm linkage having two parallel arms each pivoted about respective axes which are parallel to the longitudinal axis of the moored vessel for extending and retracting the attachment element in a transverse direction, the parallel arms being pivotably fixed to the vertical guide; and respective powered actuating means for movement of the attachment element in the vertical, longitudinal and transverse directions. 2. The mooring robot of claim 1 further comprising a mounting framework fixed to the dock, wherein the parallel arms are connected between the framework and the guide for moving the guide transversely and maintaining the guide vertical during the pivoting movement of the arms; the mooring robot further including a carriage which engages with the vertical guide, and wherein the horizontal track is fixed to the carriage and slidingly receives a sub-frame to which the attachment element is fastened. 3. The mooring robot of claim 2 wherein the actuating means of the parallel arm linkage comprises a linear actuator pivotably connected between the framework and the vertical guide. 4. The mooring robot of claim 2 further including means for both fixing the carriage with respect to the guide and also for allowing it to rise and fall substantially freely as required in operation. 5. The mooring robot of claim 1 wherein said surface is substantially planar and at least part of the attachment element defines a corresponding substantially planar face, the parallel arm linkage maintaining the planar face substantially parallel with the surface throughout the transverse movement of the attachment element. 6. The mooring robot of claim 1 wherein the mooring robot is mounted to a fixed or floating dock. 7. The mooring robot of claim 1 wherein the attractive element comprises one or more vacuum cups, and said surface is a section of a freeboard of the moored vessel. 8. The mooring robot of claim 1 wherein double-acting hydraulic rams provide the actuating means for both the parallel arm linkage in the transverse direction and the movement of the attachment element relative to the track in the longitudinal direction. 9. The mooring robot of claim 8 wherein a hydraulic accumulator is connected to both rams for providing a resilient action tending to restore them to a pre-defined operating position. 10. A mooring system comprising one or more mooring robots as claimed in claim 1 and at least one remote controller wherein the operation of each mooring robot is controlled by at least one of the remote controllers. 11. The mooring system as claimed in claim 10 wherein four mooring robots are mounted to a dock in two pairs. 12. A method of operating a mooring system for driving a ship in a longitudinal direction to reposition it along the dock, including the steps: a) providing a mooring system including; i. at least four mooring robots for releasably fastening a moored vessel to a dock or to a second vessel, each mooring robot including: an attractive attachment element releasably engageable with a surface for fastening the moored vessel; a substantially vertical elongate guide to which the attachment element is slidably fixed, for raising and lowering the attachment element; a substantially horizontal track to which the attractive attachment is slidably fixed, the horizontal track being aligned parallel with a longitudinal axis of the moored vessel for fore and aft movement of the attachment element; a parallel arm linkage having two parallel arms each pivoted about respective axes which are parallel to the longitudinal axis of the moored vessel for extending and retracting the attachment element in a transverse direction, the parallel arms being pivotably fixed to the vertical guide; and respective powered actuating means for movement of the attachment element in the vertical, longitudinal and transverse directions; and ii. at least one remote controller wherein the operation of each mooring robot is controlled by at least one of the remote controllers wherein four mooring robots are mounted to a dock in two pairs; b) determining a desired distance and direction in which the ship is to be moved longitudinally; c) for each mooring robot in turn, sequentially detaching the attachment element from the hull, moving the attachment element to its extent of longitudinal travel in a direction opposite to the desired direction and then reattaching the attachment element; d) driving each attachment element in the desired direction; and e) repeating step c) and d) until the desired position is reached. 13. The method of operating a mooring system as claimed in claim 12 further including the step: f) sequentially moving each attachment element to a neutral position. 