A sealing gasket for mounting around a motor vehicle door presenting at least one corner of small radius of curvature, the gasket being mounted directly on its support without being subjected to any specific localized treatment operation in a support corner of small radius of curvature, and comprising at least a flexible or semi-rigid fixing portion fixed by adhesive to its support and an elastically-deformable tubular portion for providing sealing, wherein the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket is given a shape extending from its fixing portion that is generally triangular, being defined by two lateral pillars which between them form an angle of about 10.degree. to 80.degree., and which are united by an arch, said angle being defined using two straight lines passing substantially through the middles of the two lateral pillars at ths and at 4/5ths of the total height of the gasket measured from its fixing portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sealing gasket for mounting around a motor vehicle door presenting at least one corner of small radius of curvature, the gasket being mounted directly on its support without being subjected to any specific localized treatment operation in a support corner of small radius of curvature, and comprising at least a flexible or semi-rigid fixing portion fixed by adhesive to its support and an elastically-deformable tubular portion for providing sealing, wherein the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket is given a shape extending from its fixing portion that is generally triangular, being defined by two lateral pillars which between them form an angle of about 10.degree. to 80.degree., and which are united by an arch, said angle being defined using two straight lines passing substantially through the middles of the two lateral pillars at ths and at 4/5 ths of the total height of the gasket measured from its fixing portion, the gasket having a uniform cross section along its length. 2. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which, once the gasket has been mounted on its support, the elastically-deformable portion is such that in said corner of small radius of curvature, its right section is subjected to deformation causing it to project outwards by a maximum of about 2 mm beside the zone of contact between the gasket and the body and relative to the position of the gasket in the free state. 3. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which the angle between the two lateral pillars of the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket is about 30.degree.. 4. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which inner and outer top portions of the arch of the elastically-deformable portion are generally situated on two circles having centers that are spaced apart from each other by a distance of more than 0.7 mm. 5. A door containing the sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which a loss of gasket height is obtained in a corner of small radius of curvature of the support that is no greater than 2.5 mm when the gasket is mounted on the door presenting a radius of curvature that is less than or equal to 80 mm and extending over an angle that is less than or equal to 80.degree.. 6. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which the shape of the arch interconnecting the two pillars of the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket is such that a zone which provides sealing presents, in right cross-section, reduced thickness which makes it easier for a robot to position the gasket on the support receiving it. 7. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which the fixing portion includes bearing portions situated substantially on either side of the adhesive in order to limit the deformation of the gasket in a corner of small radius of curvature of the support receiving the gasket. 8. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which the fixing portion of the gasket presents at least one thread or reinforcement for providing assistance in assembly by limiting the extent to which it can be lengthened while it is being put into place. 9. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which means are provided for weakening the compressibility forces of a gasket. 10. A sealing gasket according to claim 9, in which said means are constituted by at least one hinge-forming line of weakness formed in the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket. 11. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which the gasket is suitable for bearing laterally against its support so as to encourage holding of its elastically-deformable gasket. 12. A sealing gasket according to claim 1, in which the gasket is stored and supplied to an assembly line on a drum, a pallet, or a container of great length. 