A biosensor is described which can obtain physiological data from an individual. The biosensor may collect electrodermal activity, skin temperature, and other information. The biosensor may be attached to the body through the use of a garment which may be fastened in multiple locations on the human body. The biosensor includes compensation for electrodermal activity measurements based on the amount of pressure applied to the electrodes that are in contact with the skin. As pressure is increased the electrodermal activity values typically increase. By compensating for the influence that pressure changes have on electrodermal activity, more accurate analysis of physiology and therefore mental state analysis may be performed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring physiology comprising: a pair of electrodes; one or more pressure sensing devices attached to one or more of each of the pair of electrodes; circuitry configured to evaluate electrodermal activity of skin to which the pair of electrodes contacts; and circuitry configured to compensate electrodermal activity evaluation based on force applied to the pair of electrodes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the one or more pressure sensing devices include one of a group comprising force sensitive resistors, piezoelectric devices, piezoelectric polymers, and pressure sensitive gels. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the circuitry to evaluate electrodermal activity includes a processor and one of software and firmware. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the circuitry to compensate electrodermal activity includes a processor and one of software and firmware. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising circuitry configured to correct electrodermal activity evaluations based on temperature of the skin. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a garment to hold the pair of electrodes against a body. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the garment is suitable to be worn in multiple locations on the body. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising circuitry configured to evaluate skin temperature. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising circuitry configured to compensate skin temperature evaluation based on the force applied to the pair of electrodes. 10. A system for measuring physiology comprising: a sensor including a pair of electrodes and one or more pressure sensing devices; and a processor coupled to the sensor wherein the processor is configured to perform steps of: capturing electrodermal activity readings from skin of a body to which the pair of electrodes are in contact; collecting pressure information on an amount of pressure applied to the electrodes with the one or more pressure sensing devices; and compensating the electrodermal activity readings based on the pressure information which was collected. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the one or more pressure sensing devices include one of a group comprising force sensitive resistors, piezoelectric devices, piezoelectric polymers, and pressure sensitive gels. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the processor is further configured to correct electrodermal activity evaluations based on temperature of the skin. 13. The system of claim 10 further comprising a garment to hold the pair of electrodes against a body. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the garment is suitable to be worn in multiple locations on the body. 15. The system of claim 10 wherein the processor is further configured to evaluate skin temperature. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the processor is further configured to compensate skin temperature evaluation based on the force applied to the pair of electrodes. 