A method and apparatus for manufacturing biochips. The apparatus includes a conveying device and a series of dispensers positioned at a series of dispensing positions above the conveying device. At least one substrate is disposed on the conveying device, and the conveying device successively moves each substrate below the series of dispensers. Each of the dispensers has a plurality of nozzles facing the substrate. Each of the nozzles dispenses a predetermined reagent onto the substrate; a plurality of reagents is dispensed on the substrate at each dispensing position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for manufacturing at least one biochip from at least one substrate comprising: a conveying device for moving the substrate through a series of receiving positions; a series of dispensers positioned at a series of dispensing positions relative to the series of receiving positions of the conveying device, wherein each of the dispensers has a plurality of nozzles, and each of the nozzles dispenses a predetermined reagent onto the substrate; a plurality of positioning devices disposed on the conveying device, corresponding to each position of the series of dispensing positions: and a plurality of retainers, disposed on the conveying device, corresponding to each of the plurality of positioning devices: wherein each dispenser in the series of dispensers dispenses a plurality of reagents onto the substrate when the substrate is positioned in the corresponding receiving position. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dispensers are separated by a predetermined distance along a first axis defined by the motion of the substrate, and the conveying device moves the substrate the predetermined distance in a step-by-step manner. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the series of dispensers are aligned such that the reagents, dispensing from different dispensers, do not overlap. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the conveying device comprises: a base for receiving and supporting the substrate; and a plurality of transferring devices, disposed at the base, for moving the substrate from one of the series of dispensing positions to the next in the series of dispensing positions. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein the base is provided with a slot, and each of the transferring devices comprises: a cam rotatablly disposed at the base; and a rod extending through the slot for moving the substrate, wherein the rod is connected to the cam at one end, and abuts the substrate at the other end, wherein the rod moves the substrate by the rotation of the cam. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the conveying device comprises: a plurality of fixtures for receiving and supporting the substrate; a base for disposing the fixtures thereupon; and a plurality of transferring devices, disposed at the base, for moving the fixture from one of the series of dispensing positions to the next in the series of dispensing positions. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the base is provided with a slot, and each of the transferring devices comprises: a cam rotatablly disposed at the base; and a rod extending through the slot for moving the fixture, wherein the rod is connected to the cam at one end, and abuts the fixture at the other end, wherein the rod moves the fixture by the rotation of the cam. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: a step motor, electrically connected to the conveying device, for moving the conveying device the predetermined distance; and at least one sensor, for detecting the position of the substrate, electrically connected to the step motor, whereby the movement of the substrate, moving along with the conveying device, depends on the detection of the sensor. 9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the conveying device comprises: a conveying belt for receiving and supporting the substrate thereupon; and two rollers, electrically connected to the step motor, for moving the conveying belt. 10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein the dispensers are divided into plural groups at the predetermined distance in the first axis, and each group of the dispensers moves in a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 11. A method for manufacturing at least one biochip from at least one substrate comprising the steps of: providing a conveying device having a plurality of positioning devices and a plurality of retainers at each of a series of receiving positions; receiving the substrate on a the conveying device; conveying and positioning the substrate through the series of receiving positions corresponding to a series of dispensing positions by each corresponding positioning device; retaining said substrate at each dispensing position; and dispensing a series of reagents onto the substrate at each dispensing position. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the series of receiving positions are linearly arranged. 13. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the series of receiving positions are arranged in a ring. 14. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the series of reagents is non-overlapping. 15. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein a plurality of substrates are received onto the conveying device simultaneously, each of the plurality of substrates being conveyed through the series of receiving positions is a step-by-step manner. 16. An apparatus for manufacturing at least one biochip from at least one substrate comprising: a conveying device for moving the substrate through a series of receiving positions; a series of dispensers positioned at a series of dispensing positions relative to the series of receiving positions of the conveying device, wherein each of the dispensers has a plurality of nozzles, each of the nozzles dispenses a predetermined reagent onto the substrate, and each dispenser in the series of dispensers dispenses a plurality of reagents onto the substrate when the substrate is positioned in the corresponding receiving position; a plurality of positioning devices, disposed on the conveying device, corresponding to the series of dispensing positions; and a plurality of retainers, disposed on the conveying device, corresponding to the plurality of positioning devices, wherein each of the positioning devices pushes the substrate into a predetermined position corresponding to dispensing position and the retainers hold the substrate in the predetermined position. 17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein the dispensers are separated by a predetermined distance along a first axis defined by the motion of the substrate, and the conveying device moves the substrate the predetermined distance in a step-by-step manner. 18. The apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein the series of dispensers are aligned such that the reagents, dispensing from different dispensers, do not overlap. 19. The apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein the conveying device comprises: a base for receiving and supporting the substrate; and a plurality of transferring devices, disposed at the base, for moving the substrate from one of the series of dispensing positions to the next in the series of dispensing positions. 20. The apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein the base is provided with a slot, and each of the transferring devices comprises: a cam rotatablly disposed at the base; and a rod extending through the slot for moving the substrate, wherein the rod is connected to the cam at one end, and abuts the substrate at the other end, wherein the rod moves the substrate by the rotation of the cam. 21. The apparatus as claimed in claim 18, further comprising: a step motor, electrically connected to the conveying device, for moving the conveying device the predetermined distance; and at least one sensor, for detecting the position of the substrate, electrically connected to the step motor, whereby the movement of the substrate, moving along with the conveying device, depends on the detection of the sensor. 22. The apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein the conveying device comprises: a conveying belt for receiving and supporting the substrate thereupon; and two rollers, electrically connected to the step motor, for moving the conveying belt. 23. The apparatus as claimed in claim 22, wherein the dispensers are divided into plural groups at the predetermined distance in the first axis, and each group of the dispensers moves in a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 24. An apparatus for manufacturing at least one biochip from at least one substrate comprising: a conveying device, having a plurality of fixtures for receiving and supporting the substrate, for moving the substrate through a series of receiving positions; a series of dispensers positioned at a series of dispensing positions relative to the series of receiving positions of the conveying device, wherein each of the dispensers has a plurality of nozzles, each of the nozzles dispenses a predetermined reagent onto the substrate, and each dispenser in the series of dispensers dispenses a plurality of reagents onto the substrate when the fixture is positioned in the corresponding receiving position; a plurality of positioning devices, disposed on the base, corresponding to the series of dispensing positions; and a plurality of retainers, disposed on the base, corresponding to the plurality of positioning devices, wherein each of the positioning devices pushes the fixture into a predetermined position corresponding to dispensing position and the retainers hold the fixture in the predetermined position. 25. The apparatus as claimed in claim 24, wherein the dispensers are separated by a predetermined distance along a first axis defined by the motion of the substrate, and the conveying device moves the substrate the predetermined distance in a step-by-step manner. 26. The apparatus as claimed in claim 25, wherein the series of dispensers are aligned such that the reagents, dispensing from different dispensers, do not overlap. 27. The apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the conveying device comprises: a base for disposing the fixtures thereupon; and a plurality of transferring devices, disposed at the base, for moving the fixture from one of the series of dispensing positions to the next in the series of dispensing positions. 28. The apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein the base is provided with a slot, and each of the transferring devices comprises: a cam rotatablly disposed at the base; and a rod extending through the slot for moving the fixture, wherein the rod is connected to the cam at one end, and abuts the fixture at the other end, wherein the rod moves the fixture by the rotation of the cam. 29. The apparatus as claimed in claim 26, further comprising: a step motor, electrically connected to the conveying device, for moving the conveying device the predetermined distance; and at least one sensor, for detecting the position of the substrate, electrically connected to the step motor, whereby the movement of the substrate, moving along with the conveying device, depends on the detection of the sensor. 30. The apparatus as claimed in claim 29, wherein the conveying device comprises: a conveying belt for receiving and supporting the substrate thereupon; and two rollers, electrically connected to the step motor, for moving the conveying belt. 31. The apparatus as claimed in claim 30, wherein the dispensers are divided into plural groups at the predetermined distance in the first axis, and each group of the dispensers moves in a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 