Precursor-based methods for the production of metal-matrix composite (MMC) coatings on steel and aluminum substrates for improved wear, corrosion and oxidation resistance have been made. Wire and surface precursors are deposited on the substrate by controlled thermal processing using plasma-arc, laser and high-density infrared radiation. The temperature distribution during the formation for coating is controlled by a real tine adaptive control method. The wire precursors produced by continuous pressure infiltration of SiC or mullite fiber with aluminum were used. Steel substrates double-layer plated with binary metals including nickel and aluminum are also thermal-processed to in-situ produce compound such as nickel aluminide coatings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of producing a metal-matrix composite coating on a surface of a substrate comprising: a) melting a portion of said surface of said substrate with a heat source forming a melt pool; b) feeding a reinforced metal matrix precursor into a melt zone so that molten precursor drops enter said melt pool; c) allowing said molten precursor and melted substrate to mix, react and mix and react in said melt pool; d) solidifying said pool forming a compound that coats said portion of said surface of said substrate; and e) repeatedly redirecting said heat source to another portion of said surface and repeating steps a-d until a desired portion of the substrate surface is coated, and wherein said heat source comprises a distributed source and said precursor comprises a contoured sheet precursor, and said contoured sheet precursor comprises a mesh sheet. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said heat source is redirected by a robot programmed to heat the desired portion of the surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said heat source is redirected by raster-scanning a beam. 4. A method of producing a coating on a surface of a substrate comprising: laying a precursor in a stationary manner on a surface of said substrate; sweeping a path along said substrate surface with a heat source, locally melting the precursor at each successive location; allowing reactive mixing, inert mixing and reactive and inert mixing of the melted precursor components; and forming an intermetallic compound on said surface of said substrate as said melted material solidifies, wherein said precursor comprises a plurality of metallic layers deposited on said substrate surface, the plurality of metallic layers plated or sprayed on said substrate surface, and further comprising ceramic particulates co-deposited with said plurality of metallic layers, wherein said ceramic particulates are alumina, silicon carbide or mullite. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein a portion of the substrate is melted during the sweeping step and said reactive mixing, inert mixing and reactive and inert mixing are allowed among the precursor components and said melted substrate. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said precursor comprises a plurality of materials formed into a sheet. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein a said sheet comprises a mesh sheet. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein said precursor is fixed to said substrate surface by bonding, mechanically fixing or joining. 9. The method of claim 4 wherein said heat source comprises a concentrated line heat source. 