A system and method for image guided instrument targeting including a robot unit coupled with an instrument, an imaging unit, and a first control unit, which is coupled with the robot unit and coupled with the imaging unit. The control unit receives the imaging data about a target and about the instrument from the imaging unit and controls the robot unit to properly orienting the instrument for insertion, based upon the imaging data.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for guiding an instrument to a target position, said method comprising steps of: orienting an imager in a first imager orientation to image a target and an instrument to create first imager-orientation imaging data about said target and said instrument; placing said instrument in an initial position with a fulcrum end of the instrument at a fulcrum point; moving a moveable end of the instrument alone a curve while maintaining the fulcrum end of the instrument at the fulcrum point, whereby the instrument moves along a conical trajectory; determining a servo-plane based on the first imager-orientation imaging data taken while moving the instrument along the conical trajectory; orienting said imager in a second imager orientation to image said target and said instrument to create second imager-orientation imaging data about said target and said instrument; and performing allignment of said instrument in a second view while maintaining the instrument in the servo-plane, based on said second imager-orientation imaging data; wherein said first orientation and said second orientation are dissimilar. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein: said alignment of said instrument in said first view and said second view are performed under constant imaging. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein: said alignment of said instrument in said first view and said second view are performed under strobed imaging. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein: said imager is a portable C-arm fluoroscope. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein: said alignment of said instrument in said first view and said second view is performed under a fluoro-servoing, utilizing feedback of said first and second imaging data. 6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising the step of: calculating an orientation error during said fluoro-servoing, said orientation error being based on an angle formed by an axis and a edge of the conical trajectory of said instrument; and wherein said alignment of said instrument in said first view and said second view is further based on said orientation error. 7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising the step of: correcting a servo-plane of said instrument before orienting said imager in said second imager orientation. 8. The method according to claim 6, wherein said first alignment step and said second alignment step include incrementally moving said instrument on said conical trajectory using incremental steps proportional to the orientation error. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: calculating said desired alignment of said needle by performing alignment in two dissimilar views, which are acquired from said imaging unit in two arbitrary C-Arm orientations. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: marking an end-effector during imaging, wherein said imaging data includes location data of said end-effector, and the orientation of said instrument is based on said location data. 