A method and apparatus for measurement of mass of small sample sizes. The method and apparatus is particularly adapted for providing microbalance measurement of solid materials as part of a combinatorial research program. The method and apparatus contemplate monitoring the response of a resonator holding a sample and correlating the response with mass change in the samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring mass or mass change of materials, comprising the steps of: (a) contacting a sample of the material with a region of a mechanical resonator, in which region the oscillation amplitude is relatively high and there is a relatively low stress field, in signaling communication with a source of an input signal, wherein the mechanical resonator is a tuning fork (b) coupling the mechanical resonator with measurement hardware; (c) exposing the sample to a change in environmental conditions while on the mechanical resonator, wherein the change in environmental condition includes a change of humidity; (d) applying an input signal for oscillating the resonator at a frequency of less than about 1 MHz; and (e) correlating a response of the mechanical resonator to a mass or a mass change of the sample thereon with the measurement hardware. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least the correlating step further comprises conducting thermogravimetric analysis. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is a bulk material in a commercial process. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the commercial process is an online-process. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is a polymer. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the sample is a polymer blend. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is a solid material. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is a fluid. 9. A method for measuring small quantities of materials, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a sample; (b) applying a layer of adhesive to tips of a tuning fork resonator; (c) placing the sample on the adhesive; (d) coupling the resonator with measurement hardware; (e) exposing the sample to a change in environmental conditions while on the mechanical resonator; (f) applying an input signal for oscillating the resonator at a frequency of about 1 to about 100 kHz; and (g) correlating a response of the resonator to a change in mass of said sample thereon with the measurement hardware. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the correlating step includes monitoring frequency of the circuit output voltage. 11. A method for measuring mass or mass change of materials, comprising the steps of: (a) contacting a sample of the material with a region of a mechanical resonator, in which region the oscillation amplitude is relatively high and there is a relatively low stress field, in signaling communication with a source of an input signal, wherein the mechanical resonator is a tuning fork (b) coupling the mechanical resonator with measurement hardware; (c) applying an input signal for oscillating the resonator at a frequency of less than about 1 MHz; and (d) correlating a response of the mechanical resonator to an absolute mass of the sample thereon with the measurement hardware. 