A system for managing a weapon system is provided. The system includes a number of mobile robotic vehicles (MRVs), a number of squads, each squad having a lead MRV and member MRVs, a number of central control systems, a number of reactive control systems, a central planning control configured to control the plurality of central control systems, a behavior-based reactive control configured to control the plurality of reactive control systems, an intermediated control layer configured to control the central planning control and the behavior-based reactive control, a number of hybrid control models configured to communicate with the intermediate control layer, the hybrid control models including a planning driven model and an adaptation model, a number of synthetic control models configured to communicate with the hybrid control models, and a number of synthetic hybrid control models configured based on combinations of the hybrid control models and the synthetic control models.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for managing a weapon system, comprising: a plurality of mobile robotic vehicles (MRVs); a plurality of squads, each squad having a lead MRV and member MRVs; a plurality of central control systems; a plurality of reactive control systems; a central planning control configured to control the plurality of central control systems; a behavior-based reactive control configured to control the plurality of reactive control systems; an intermediated control layer configured to control the central planning control and the behavior-based reactive control; a plurality of hybrid control models configured to communicate with the intermediate control layer, the plurality of hybrid control models including a planning driven model and an adaptation model; a plurality of synthetic control models configured to communicate with the plurality of hybrid control models; and a plurality of synthetic hybrid control models configured based on combinations of the plurality of hybrid control models and the plurality of synthetic control models. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the planning driven model is used to control the weapon system; and wherein the adaptation model is used to control the plurality of squads. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein a first squad operates in a neutral mode at a specific location; wherein the first squad collects information relating to the specific location, the information including enemy positions for targeting and frequency of enemy opposition; wherein the first squad analyzes the collected information and anticipates enemy behavior; and wherein upon attack by an enemy, the first squad transforms from the neutral position to an offensive position. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein when in the neutral mode, the first squad engages in a patrolling configuration. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein when the first squad detects the enemy, the first squad engages in an attack configuration. 6. The system of claim 3 wherein the first squad includes a plurality of intelligent mines. 