A plate pin assembly for use with a fixture that holds multiple plate pin assemblies for use in chassis-body marriage during the manufacturing of automobiles. The plate pin assembly has a lower end that fits into a bushing hole on the fixture to attach the plate pin assembly to the fixture, an upper end that supports or otherwise interacts with the vehicle chassis or body, and a quick-disconnect mechanism to enable fast changeover of the plate pin assemblies on the fixture when switching from one vehicle application to another.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A work support assembly for use with a work holding fixture, comprising: a base adapted to be mounted against the work holding fixture; a work support member carried by the base; a quick-disconnect mechanism carried by the base and adapted to couple the work support assembly to the work holding fixture; and an actuator carried by the base for actuating the quick-disconnect mechanism to disconnect the work support assembly from the work holding fixture. 2. The work support assembly of claim 1, further comprising a first locating feature carried by the base and adapted to engage a second locating feature of the work holding fixture, wherein the first locating feature is laterally offset from the quick-disconnect mechanism. 3. The work support assembly of claim 1, wherein the actuator is carried by the base by being pivotably mounted to a pedestal, which is fastened to the base. 4. The work support assembly of claim 3, wherein the work support member is carried by the base by being mounted to the pedestal. 5. The work support assembly of claim 4, wherein the work support member is adapted to carry a work contactor thereon. 6. The work support assembly of claim 1, wherein the base includes a passage therethrough and the quick-disconnect mechanism comprises: a housing extending through the base passage and being adapted to extend at least partially into the work holding fixture; at least one movable element at least partially carried by the housing; a plunger extending through the housing for cooperating with the actuator and the at least one movable element; and a resilient member to bias the plunger against the actuator and the at least one movable element. 7. A work support assembly for use with a work holding fixture, comprising: a base adapted to be mounted against the work holding fixture, wherein the base includes a passage extending therethrough; a quick-disconnect mechanism carried by the base and adapted to couple the work support assembly to the work holding fixture, wherein the quick-disconnect mechanism includes: a housing extending through the base passage and being adapted to extend at least partially into a bushing hole of the work holding fixture; at least one movable element at least partially carried by the housing; a plunger extending through the housing for cooperating with the at least one movable element; and a resilient member carried between the housing and the plunger; a pedestal mounted to the base; a substantially hollow work support member mounted to and extending in a longitudinal direction away from the pedestal, and including sidewalls having at least one slot extending longitudinally therethrough; and an actuator pivotably mounted to the pedestal and extending through the at least one slot of the work support member for engaging the plunger and actuating the quick-disconnect mechanism to release the work support assembly from the work holding fixture; wherein the resilient member biases the plunger against the actuator and the at least one movable element. 8. The work support assembly of claim 7, wherein the work support member is adapted to carry a work contactor. 9. The work support assembly of claim 7, wherein the at least one slot in the work support member includes a first slot into which extends the actuator, and a second slot substantially opposed from the first slot to provide additional access to the actuator. 10. The work support assembly of claim 7, wherein the actuator includes a pivot limiting finger adapted to cooperate with the work support member to limit pivotal movement of the actuator. 11. The work support assembly of claim 7, wherein the base includes at least one receiver pocket for cooperating with the work holding fixture. 12. A work holder assembly including the work support assembly of claim 7, and further including a work holding fixture having at least one bushing hole therein and at least one bushing disposed in the at least one bushing hole, wherein the at least one bushing includes an internal shoulder for cooperation with the at least one movable element of the quick-disconnect mechanism. 13. A work holder assembly, comprising: a work holding fixture including a plurality of bushing holes; and a plurality of work support assemblies coupled to the plurality of bushing holes of the work holding fixture, wherein at least two of the plurality of work support assemblies include quick-disconnect mechanisms and locating features that are spaced apart different distances for inhibiting incorrect assembly of the work support assemblies to the work holding fixture. 14. The work holder assembly of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of work support assemblies includes: a base adapted to be mounted against the work holding fixture; a work support member carried by the base; a quick-disconnect mechanism carried by the base and adapted to couple the work support assembly to the work holding fixture, and including a housing extending into a corresponding one of the plurality of bushing holes of the work holding fixture; and an actuator carried by the base for actuating the quick-disconnect mechanism to disconnect the work support assembly from the work holding fixture; wherein a first work support assembly of the plurality of work support assemblies comprises a first locating feature carried by its base and adapted to engage a first corresponding locating feature of the work holding fixture, wherein the first locating feature is laterally offset from the quick-disconnect mechanism of the first work support assembly by a first distance; further wherein a second work support assembly of the plurality of work support assemblies comprises a second locating feature carried by its base and adapted to engage a second corresponding locating feature of the work holding fixture, wherein the second locating feature is laterally offset from the quick-disconnect mechanism of the second work support assembly by a second distance, which is different than the first distance. 15. The work holder assembly of claim 13, wherein the plurality of bushing holes includes bushing holes of different sizes from one another, and least some of the housings of the plurality of work support assemblies are also of different sizes from one another. 16. An interchangeable plate pin assembly, comprising: a base; a handle carried by the base and including a work support member and a trigger for actuation during installation or removal of the plate pin assembly; and an attachment mechanism operably coupled to the handle, wherein actuation of the trigger disengages the attachment mechanism so that the assembly can be inserted into or removed from a bushing hole. 17. The interchangeable plate pin assembly of claim 16, wherein the trigger is pivotable. 18. The interchangeable plate pin assembly of claim 16, wherein the base includes a uniquely positioned locator pin so that the assembly can only be installed into a bushing hole corresponding to the assembly. 19. The interchangeable plate pin assembly of claim 16, wherein the attachment mechanism includes a plunger driven by the trigger and one or more ball bearings driven by the plunger. 20. A fixture for installing components to the underside of a vehicle chassis, comprising a base plate with at least one bushing hole for interchangeably receiving the interchangeable plate pin assembly of claim 16. 21. A storage tray for storing plate pin assemblies, comprising a plurality of slats, each having at least one bushing hole for interchangeably receiving the interchangeable plate pin assembly of claim 16. 22. The storage tray of claim 21 wherein each of the plurality of slats are color coded to correspond to different plate pin assemblies. 23. A cart for use in a chassis marriage application and carrying a fixture including a first plurality of bushing holes, and a storage rack including a second plurality of bushing holes, wherein the first and second pluralities of bushing holes are designed to interchangeably receive a plurality of interchangeable plate pin assemblies each of which is constructed as defined in claim 16. 24. The cart of claim 23, wherein the cart is an Automated Guided Vehicle (AGV). 