A method and apparatus for detection of a particular material, such as photo-resist material, on a sample surface are disclosed. A narrow beam of light is projected onto the sample surface and the fluoresced and/or reflected light intensity at a particular wavelength band is measured by a light detector. The light intensity is converted to a numerical value and transmitted electronically to a logic circuit, which determines the proper disposition of the sample. The logic circuit controls a sample-handling robotic device which sequentially transfers samples to and from a stage for testing and subsequent disposition. The method is particularly useful for detecting photo-resist material on the surface of a semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for detecting a material on a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a chamber configured for receiving a semiconductor substrate; a movable stage for positioning the semiconductor substrate within the chamber; a first port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into the chamber onto a surface location of the semiconductor substrate; a second port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from the surface location of the semiconductor substrate to exit the chamber as a secondary light beam; and a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving the secondary light beam from the chamber and measuring an intensity thereof, the light intensity sensing apparatus being configured for generating an electronic signal representative of the intensity, the movable stage being configured to move the semiconductor substrate at least partially in response to the electronic signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a source for producing the beam of high energy light. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the source is selected from the group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus is configured for generating an analog electronic signal representative of the intensity. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a logic circuit for processing the electronic signal. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the movable stage comprises one or more stepper motors at least partially controlled by the logic circuit. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the logic circuit comprises a computer programmed to receive and record the measured intensity of the secondary light beam. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plasma generator for providing plasma within the chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a photo-multiplier tube. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of the semiconductor substrate to and from the chamber. 11. An apparatus for in situ monitoring of a material on a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a chamber configured for receiving a semiconductor substrate; an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of the semiconductor substrate to and from the chamber; a first port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into the chamber onto a surface location of the semiconductor substrate; a second port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from the surface location of the semiconductor substrate to exit the chamber as a secondary light beam; a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving the secondary light beam from the chamber and measuring an intensity thereof; and at least one band pass filter capable of restricting the beam of high energy light to a predetermined wavelength band. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one band pass filter is positioned to filter the beam of high energy light. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a source for producing the beam of high energy light. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the source is selected from the group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus is configured for generating an electronic signal representative of the measured intensity of the secondary light beam. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a logic circuit for processing the electronic signal. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, further including a movable stage is configured to move the semiconductor substrate at least partially in response to the electronic signal. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the logic circuit comprises a computer programmed to receive and record the intensity. 19. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a plasma generator for providing plasma within the chamber. 20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a photo-multiplier tube. 21. A method for detecting a presence of at least one material on a surface of a semiconductor substrate, the method comprising: placing a semiconductor substrate into a chamber comprising a first port for allowing light to enter the chamber and a second port for allowing the light to exit the chamber; positioning the semiconductor substrate in the chamber with a movable stage; stripping at least one material from a surface of the semiconductor substrate; and during the stripping: directing light from a light source to enter the chamber through the first port and onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate through the second port; and generating a signal indicative of an intensity of the collected light. 22. The method according to claim 21, further comprising transmitting the signal to a logic circuit for processing. 23. The method according to claim 22, wherein the logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to an automated substrate handling apparatus to control disposition of the semiconductor substrate responsive to a value of the intensity. 24. The method according to claim 22, wherein the logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to the movable stage to control disposition of the semiconductor substrate responsive to a value of the intensity. 25. The method according to claim 21, further comprising filtering reflected and/or emitted light in at least one wavelength indicative of the at least one material. 26. The method according to claim 21, further comprising transmitting the signal to a computer for processing. 27. The method according to claim 21, further comprising: positioning additional semiconductor substrates to receive the light directed through the first port onto the surface of each of the additional semiconductor substrates; and collecting light emanating from the surface of each of the additional semiconductor substrates. 28. The method according to claim 21, further comprising determining a presence of the at least one material by detecting a selected wavelength of light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate, the selected wavelength of light being characteristic of the at least one material. 29. The method according to claim 21, further comprising: comparing the signal indicative of the intensity of the collected light to an intermediate cutoff value of light intensity; wherein the intermediate cutoff value of light intensity is selected as a basis for determining a presence of the at least one material on the semiconductor substrate. 30. An apparatus for in situ monitoring a material present on a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a chamber configured for receiving a semiconductor substrate; a first port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into the chamber onto a surface location of the semiconductor substrate; a source for producing the beam of high energy light, wherein the source is selected from the group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp; a second port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from the surface location of the semiconductor substrate as a secondary light beam to exit the chamber; and a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving the secondary light beam from the chamber and measuring an intensity thereof. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a stage for positioning the semiconductor substrate within the chamber. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of the semiconductor substrate to and from the chamber. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a plasma generator for providing plasma within the chamber. 34. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus is configured for generating an electronic signal representative of the intensity. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising a logic circuit for processing the electronic signal. 36. A method for detecting a presence of at least one material on a surface of a semiconductor substrate, the method comprising: placing a semiconductor substrate into a chamber comprising a first port for allowing light to enter the chamber and a second port for allowing the light to exit the chamber; directing light from a light source to enter the chamber through the first port and onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate through the second port; generating a signal indicative of an intensity of the collected light; and transmitting the signal to a logic circuit for processing, wherein the logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to a movable stage to control disposition of the semiconductor substrate responsive to a value of the collected light intensity. 37. The method according to claim 36, further comprising filtering the collected light in at least one wavelength indicative of a presence of the at least one material. 38. The method according to claim 36, further comprising positioning the semiconductor substrate in the chamber with the movable stage. 39. The method according to claim 36, further comprising determining a presence of the at least one material by detecting a selected wavelength of light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate, the selected wavelength of light being characteristic of the at least one material. 40. The method according to claim 36, further comprising determining a presence of the at least one material by detecting an absence of a given wavelength of light characteristically absorbed by the at least one material and characteristically reflected by the semiconductor substrate surface. 41. The method according to claim 36, further comprising determining a presence of the at least one material by detecting a given wavelength of light characteristically reflected by the at least one material and characteristically absorbed by the semiconductor substrate surface. 42. The method according to claim 36, further comprising determining a presence of the at least one material by detecting at least one wavelength band indicative of a presence of the at least one material. 43. A method for in situ monitoring of stripping a material from a semiconductor substrate, the method comprising: placing a semiconductor substrate into a chamber; positioning the semiconductor substrate in the chamber with a movable stage; stripping at least one material from a surface of the semiconductor substrate; and measuring an intensity of a wavelength of light to monitor the stripping of the at least one material from the surface of the semiconductor substrate and detect an end point of the stripping. 44. The method according to claim 43, wherein stripping the at least one material from the surface of the semiconductor substrate comprises wet stripping. 45. The method according to claim 43, wherein stripping the at least one material from the surface of the semiconductor substrate comprises plasma stripping. 46. The method according to claim 43, further comprising removing the semiconductor substrate from the chamber when the endpoint is detected. 47. The method according to claim 43, wherein measuring the intensity of the wavelength of light comprises: directing light to enter the chamber through a first port and onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate through a second port; and generating a signal indicative of an intensity of the collected light. 48. The method according to claim 47, further comprising transmitting the signal to a logic circuit for processing. 49. The method according to claim 48, wherein the logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to an automated substrate handling apparatus to control disposition of the semiconductor substrate based on the collected light intensity. 50. A method for in situ monitoring of stripping a material from a semiconductor substrate, the method comprising: placing a semiconductor substrate into a chamber; stripping at least one material from a surface of the semiconductor substrate; and during the stripping: directing light from a light source to enter the chamber through a first port and onto a surface of the semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate through a second port; generating a signal indicative of an intensity of the collected light; and transmitting the signal to a logic circuit for processing, to enable the logic circuit to determine an endpoint of the stripping. 51. The method according to claim 50, wherein stripping the at least one material from the surface of the semiconductor substrate comprises wet stripping. 52. The method according to claim 50, wherein stripping the at least one material from the surface of the semiconductor substrate comprises plasma stripping. 53. The method according to claim 50, further comprising removing the semiconductor substrate from the chamber when the endpoint is reached. 54. An apparatus for determining an end point of a stripping process, comprising: a chamber having a first port for allowing a beam of light to enter the chamber onto a surface of a semiconductor substrate and a second port for allowing light emanating from the surface of the semiconductor substrate to exit the chamber, wherein the chamber is configured for receiving the semiconductor substrate; a movable stage for positioning the semiconductor substrate within the chamber; a plasma generator for providing a plasma within the chamber; and a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving the light from the chamber and measuring an intensity thereof, wherein a selected intensity thereof indicates an end point of the stripping process. 55. The apparatus of claim 54, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus is configured to generate an electric signal representative of the intensity. 56. The apparatus of claim 55, further comprising a logic circuit for processing the electronic signal. 57. The apparatus of claim 54, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of the semiconductor substrate to and from the chamber. 58. The apparatus of claim 54, further comprising a source for producing the beam of light, wherein the source is selected from the group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp. 59. The apparatus of claim 58, further comprising at least one band pass filter capable of restricting the beam of light. 