This invention relates generally to a flexible fastener for coupling members. In a preferred embodiment, the flexible fastener may be used to couple members that are non-parallel, non-aligned, or in specific instances when selective compliance in a member is desired. The present invention is directed generally to a fastener that is laterally flexible along its length, comprising a shank covered with a spiral set of teeth and a flexible core material running internally to the shank and along the length of the shank, wherein the shank and the flexible core material are coupled at both distal ends of the fastener. In a preferred embodiment, a means for imparting rotational movement to the fastener is attached at a distal end. The preferred means are a bolt head and a screw head.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fastener, comprising: a spiral set of teeth, wherein said spiral set of teeth have a convex portion and a concave portion and wherein the convex portion smaller than said concave portion; and a selectively compliant core material running internally to said spiral set of teeth; and coupling means for connecting said selectively compliant core material to said spiral set of teeth at both distal ends of said spiral net of teeth no that said fastener is laterally flexible along its length. 2. The spiral set of teeth of claim 1, wherein said convex portion of a lower layer of spiral teeth fits into said concave portion of an upper layer of spiral teeth. 3. A fastener, comprising: a spiral set of teeth, wherein said spiral set of teeth have a convex portion and a concave portion and wherein the convex portion is smaller than said concave portion; and a selectively compliant core material running internally to said spiral set of teeth and along the length of said spiral set of teeth; and coupling means for connecting said selectively compliant core material to said spiral set of teeth at both distal ends of said spiral set of teeth so that said fastener is laterally flexible along its length; and means at a distal end of said spiral set of teeth for imparting rotational movement thereto. 4. The fastener of claim 3, wherein said convex portion of a lower layer of spiral teeth fits into said concave portion of an upper layer of spiral teeth. 