The present invention provides a method and apparatus for dispensing small volumes of selected substances, such as biological reagents or samples, onto substrates. According to one general embodiment, a plurality of spaced, tandemly-arranged substrates are advanced, e.g., by way of a conveyor, along a transport pathway extending over a reagent-supply location, such as a reservoir supported at a fixed position in a base. From a position over the reagent-supply location and the pathway, a reagent-transfer instrument, or tip, is extended along an axis through an intervening region, e.g., an opening defined by a surface of the conveyor, separating an adjacent pair of advancing substrates to contact reagent held at the reagent-supply location. The reagent-transfer instrument is then withdrawn, along with a portion of such reagent, through the intervening region to a position above the transport pathway. Once the conveyor has advanced a selected substrate, upstream of the intervening region, to a position aligned with the axis of the reagent-transfer instrument, a selected amount of reagent is transferred from the instrument onto a selected site of the substrate. Advantageously, the apparatus and method are readily adaptable for the production of micro-arrays having a great number of closely spaced spots.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A spotting system, comprising: a base including one or more areas adapted to hold one or more reagents; a conveyor positioned over said base, said conveyor including a surface defining (i) a plurality of substrate-support areas for holding or containing substrates to be spotted with said one or more reagents, and (ii) a plurality of openings permitting access to said one or more base areas; a transfer head which is movable along an axis for obtaining reagents from the base through said openings in the conveyor surface; and one or more controllers for controlling the movement of the conveyor and the transfer head. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein an elongate flexible belt defines said conveyor. 3. The system of claim 1, which further includes one or more additional transfer heads disposed at spaced positions along said conveyor. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein at least one of said transfer heads is laterally offset from the other transfer heads. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein a plurality of transfer heads are disposed in a row extending laterally or obliquely across the conveyor surface at one or more of said spaced positions. 6. A reagent-manipulation apparatus, comprising: a conveyor including a surface with a plurality of spaced, tandemly-arranged substrate-support regions, each adapted to support a substrate, said conveyor surface defining an opening between each adjacent pair of substrate-support regions; a base located under the conveyor and adapted to hold one or more reagents; a transfer head being mounted for movement along an axis, between a raised position at which the head is disposed above the conveyor surface and a lowered position whereat the head can contact said one or more reagents; and one or more controllers for controlling the movement of the conveyor and transfer head. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein an elongate flexible belt defines said conveyor. 8. The system of claim 6, which further includes one or more additional transfer heads disposed at spaced positions along said conveyor. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of said transfer heads is laterally offset from the other transfer heads. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein a plurality of transfer heads are disposed in a row extending laterally or obliquely across the conveyor surface at one or more of said spaced positions. 11. A method for accessing a reagent held at a reagent-supply location, under a plurality of spaced substrates, comprising: (i) advancing said plurality of spaced substrates along a transport pathway extending over said reagent-supply location; and (ii) from a position over said reagent-supply location and said pathway, extending a reagent-transfer instrument through an intervening region separating an adjacent pair of said substrates to contact said reagent held at said reagent-supply location. 