A system and method for object-oriented marking and assignment of information to selected technological components. For optimized support, particularly during maintenance of automation systems, a system is proposed for object-oriented marking and assignment of information to selected technological components for situation-based support of the interaction between a user and a technical device, particularly for technical and industrial application. The system includes storage means (1) for storing documentation data (I1 . . . In) and recording means (2) for recording real information (R), access means (D) for accessing the documentation data, evaluation means (A) for evaluating the real information and selecting the stored documentation data as a function of the real information, means for virtual marking of a technological component, and means for displaying additional information related to the technological component that is selected by the virtual marking.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A maintenance system for facilitating efficient maintenance of technological components within a technical system, the maintenance system comprising: storage means for storing documentation data associated with the technological components; marking means for virtual marking at least one of the technological components; recording means for recording real information associated with the marked technological components; access means for accessing documentation data associated with the marked technological components; evaluation means for evaluating the recorded real information and selecting the stored documentation data associated with the marked technological components as a function of the recorded real information; and display means for displaying additional information related to the marked technological components. 2. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking means are controlled by speech. 3. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking means are controlled by digital image processing. 4. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a connection to a remote expert system operable to transmit an identification of the marked technological components or return additional information related to the marked technological components. 5. A method for object-oriented marking and assignment of information to selected technological components for situation-based support of an interaction between a user and a technical system, the method comprising: storing documentation data associated with the technological components; virtually marking at least one of the technological components; recording real information associated with the marked selected technological components; accessing documentation data associated with the marked selected technological components; evaluating the recorded real information and selecting the stored documentation data associated with the marked selected technological components as a function of the recorded real information; and displaying for the user additional information related to the marked selected technological components. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the marking of the selected technological components is applied based on speech. 7. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the marking of the selected technological components is applied based on digital image processing. 8. A method as claimed in claim 5, further comprising: transmitting an identification of the marked technological component via a data connection to a remote expert or a remote expert system; and receiving additional information related to the marked technological component. 9. A maintenance system for facilitating maintenance by a user of a technical system having at least one technological component, the maintenance system comprising: a user device with an image collection portion and a speech delivery portion; a marking device operable to mark at least one of the technological components, the marked technological components being designated as marked components; a storage device operable to electronically store documentation data associated with the technological components; and an association device operable to associate the marked components with respective documentation data, wherein said user device is operable to retrieve, collect and transmit real data associated with the marked components. 10. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the marked components are identified as potential problematic components of the technical system. 11. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 9, further comprising: a remote expert operable to receive the real data from said user device and provide additional data regarding the marked components. 12. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 11, wherein said remote expert receives the real data from said user device via the Internet. 13. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the image collection portion of said user device comprises a display operable to visibly display the documentation data associated with the marked components. 14. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 13 wherein the display of the image collection portion of said user device is further operable to visibly display the additional data. 15. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 9 wherein said marking device comprises means for virtually marking the at least one technological components. 16. A maintenance system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the virtual marking of the at least one technological component is performed by the user pointing at the at least one technological component desired to be marked. 17. A maintenance device usable by a user responsible for maintaining or repairing technological components within a technical system, the maintenance device comprising: a marking device operable to identify at least one of the technological components, wherein the marked technological components are identified as potentially problematic components of the technical system; an image collection portion operable to collect image data of the marked technological components; an audible communication portion operable to receive and transmit audible data from the user to a remote expert and to receive additional audible data from the remote expert and provide the received additional audible data to the user; a display portion operable to visibly display the image data and component data associated with the marked technological components, wherein the component data comprises basic data stored for each of the technological components or additional visible data provided by the remote expert. 