An injection-molded plastic part cooling tube has an extruded cylindrically shaped tube with an inside surface and an outside surface. An extruded cooling channel is disposed inside the cylindrically shaped tube, between the inside surface and the outside surface. A method for forming an injection-molded-plastic-part cooling tube includes the step of extruding a hollow aluminum tube having an inside surface, an outside surface, and at least one cooling channel in the hollow aluminum tube between the inside surface and the outside surface. Alternative cooling tubes include a tubular porous insert for vacuum forming molded articles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cooling tube for cooling a portion of an injection molded article received therein, the cooling tube comprising: an annular tube body, formed by extrusion, having an inside surface, an outside surface, and a plurality of longitudinally extensive cooling channels enclosed therebetween; at least one connecting channel configured in the tube body to interconnect the plurality of cooling channels into at least one cooling circuit; a seal configured at a top and a distal end of tube body for enclosing the cooling circuit; a coolant inlet channel disposed in the tube body between one of the surfaces thereon and a first end of the cooling circuit; a coolant outlet channel disposed in the tube body between one of the surfaces thereon and a second end of the cooling circuit; a distal end portion of the tube body being configured to receive a plug member therein; a portion of the inside surface of the tube body and an end surface configured on the plug member being configured to cooperate in providing a profiled cavity that substantially conforms with an outer surface profile of the portion of the molded article. 2. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 1, wherein the plurality of cooling channels have a length which is at least four times a minor diameter thereof. 3. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 2, wherein the tube has a cross-section comprising a plurality of the cooling channels that are furthermore configured as arcuate, elongated slots. 4. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 3, wherein the cumulative angular extent of all elongated slots is greater than 180 degrees. 5. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 2, wherein the plug member includes a cooling channel inlet extension, and a cooling channel outlet extension, for connecting, in use, a source and drain of coolant with the cooling circuit inlet and outlet on the tube body. 6. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 2, wherein the plug member includes a pressure channel extending therethrough from a base of the inside surface for connecting, in use, the cavity with a controllable vacuum structure for assisting in the entry and ejection of the molded article in the cavity. 7. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 2, wherein the cavity is configured to provide an intimate fit with the outside surface of the molded article. 8. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 2, wherein the inside surface of the tube body that is configured to cooperate in providing the profiled cavity is configured along an inside surface of a porous insert that is configured for interconnection with a vacuum structure in the tube body. 9. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 1, wherein the cooling tube is configured for use on an end-of-arm tool. 10. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 9, wherein the end-of-arm tool includes: a carrier plate for mounting, in use, to a robot in a molding system; and at least one of the cooling tube arranged on a surface of the carrier plate. 11. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 10, wherein the number of the cooling tube assemblies corresponds with the number of molded articles produced in a cycle of the molding system. 12. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 10, wherein the number of the cooling tube assemblies corresponds with a multiple of the number of molded articles produced in a cycle of the molding system. 13. The cooling tube in accordance with any of claim 10, wherein the end-of-arm tool is configured for use in an injection molding system. 14. A cooling tube for cooling a portion of an injection molded article received therein, the cooling tube comprising: an annular tube body, formed by extrusion, having an inside surface, an outside surface, a top surface, and a distal end surface, and a plurality of longitudinally extensive cooling channels formed through the outer surface of the tube; a tubular sleeve, having an outside surface, and an inside surface that is configured to fit-around the tube body for enclosing the cooling channels; at least one connecting channel configured in at least one of i) the tubular sleeve, or ii) the tube body, for interconnecting the plurality of cooling channels into at least one cooling circuit; a seal configured at a top and a distal end of tube body for providing a water-tight connection between the tube body and the sleeve and for enclosing the cooling circuit; a coolant inlet channel disposed in at least one of i) the tubular sleeve, or ii) the tube body between one of the surfaces thereon and a first end of the cooling circuit; a coolant outlet channel disposed in at least one of i) the tubular sleeve, or ii) the tube body between one of the surfaces thereon and a second end of the cooling circuit; a distal end portion of the tube body being configured to receive a plug member therein; a portion of the inside surface of the tube body and an end surface configured on the plug member being configured to cooperate in providing a profiled cavity that substantially conforms with an outer surface profile of the portion of the molded article. 15. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 14, wherein the cavity is configured to provide an intimate fit with the outside surface of the molded article. 16. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 14, wherein the inside surface of the tube body that is configured to cooperate in providing the profiled cavity is configured along an inside surface of a porous insert that is configured for interconnection with a vacuum structure in the tube body. 17. A cooling tube for cooling a portion of an injection molded article received therein, the cooling tube comprising: a tube body, having an inside surface, an outside surface, a top surface, and a distal end surface, and at least a portion of the inside surface of the tube body being configured to provide a profiled cavity that substantially conforms with an outer surface profile of the portion of the molded article; a tubular sleeve, formed by extrusion, having an inside surface and an outside surface, and a plurality of longitudinally extensive cooling channels formed through the inside surface of the sleeve; the inside surface configured to fit-around the tube body for enclosing the cooling channels therebetween; at least one connecting channel configured in at least one of i) the tubular sleeve, or ii) the tube body, for interconnecting the plurality of cooling channels into at least one cooling circuit; a seal configured at a top and a distal end of tube body for providing a water-tight connection between the tube body and the sleeve and for enclosing the cooling circuit; a coolant inlet channel disposed in at least one of i) the tubular sleeve, or ii) the tube body between one of the surfaces thereon and a first end of the cooling circuit; a coolant outlet channel disposed in at least one of i) the tubular sleeve, or ii) the tube body between one of the surfaces thereon and a second end of the cooling circuit. 18. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 17, wherein a distal end portion of the tube body is configured to receive a plug member therein, an end surface on the plug member being configured to cooperate with the portion of the inside surface of the tube body in providing the profiled cavity. 19. The cooling tube in accordance with claim 17, wherein the cavity is configured to provide an intimate fit with the outside surface of the molded article. 20. The cooling tub in accordance with claim 17, wherein the inside surface of the tube body that is configured to cooperate in providing the profiled cavity is configured along an inside surface of a porous insert that is configured for interconnection with a vacuum structure in the tube body. 