A two sided wafer handling end-effector provides for the efficient loading and unloading of wafers into and out of a wafer processing apparatus. Each side of the end-effector includes spaced apart rotatable catch mechanisms between which a wafer is firmly grasped. When the end-effector is positioned beneath the wafer processing apparatus the catch mechanisms are rotated to an open position and a lifting surface on the catch mechanisms lifts the wafer into the wafer processing apparatus. When the catch mechanisms are in the open position the wafer is centered on the end-effector by rotatable rocker assemblies that contact the edge of the wafer. As the end-effector is raised into contact with the processing apparatus, the rocker assemblies rotate to a lowered position in the end-effector while arcuate surfaces on the assemblies maintain contact with the wafer edge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing a workpiece in a workpiece processing apparatus comprising the steps of: grasping a first workpiece between first and second rotatable catch mechanisms on a first side of a workpiece handling end-effector; positioning the first workpiece in alignment with the workpiece processing apparatus; rotating the first and second rotatable catch mechanisms to an open position to ungrasp the first workpiece and to raise the first workpiece into contact with the workpiece processing apparatus; processing the first workpiece in the workpiece processing apparatus; while processing the first workpiece, grasping a second workpiece between the first and second rotatable catch mechanisms on the first side of the workpiece handling end-effector; positioning the workpiece end-effector below the workpiece processing apparatus with a second side of the workpiece end-effector aligned with the workpiece processing apparatus and with third and fourth rotatable catch mechanisms on the second side of the workpiece end-effector rotated to an open position; transferring the first workpiece to the second side of the workpiece end-effector and rotating the third and fourth rotatable catch mechanisms to a closed position to grasp the first workpiece; rotating the workpiece end-effector by 180.degree. to align the second workpiece with the workpiece processing apparatus; and rotating the first and second rotatable catch mechanisms to an open position to ungrasp the second workpiece and to raise the second workpiece into contact with the workpiece processing apparatus. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of processing the first workpiece comprises the step of chemical mechanical planarizing the first workpiece. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of centering the first workpiece on the workpiece end-effector between rotatable rocker assemblies after the step of rotating the first and second rotatable catch mechanisms to an open position to ungrasp the first workpiece. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of contacting the workpiece processing apparatus with the rotatable rocker assemblies to cause rotation of the rotatable rocker assemblies. 