Devices and methods for controlling and monitoring the progress and properties of multiple reactions are disclosed. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental reactors as well. The apparatus generally includes multiple vessels for containing reaction mixtures, and systems for controlling the stirring rate and temperature of individual reaction mixtures or groups of reaction mixtures. In addition, the apparatus may include provisions for independently controlling pressure in each vessel, and a system for injecting liquids into the vessels at a pressure different than ambient pressure. In situ monitoring of individual reaction mixtures provides feedback for process controllers, and also provides data for determining reaction rates, product yields, and various properties of the reaction products, including viscosity and molecular weight. Computer-based methods are disclosed for process monitoring and control, and for data display and analysis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for the parallel processing of reaction mixtures, comprising a reactor block having a series of wells therein extending down from an upper surface of the block for containing the reaction mixtures, an upper plate removably secured to said reactor block over said upper surface thereof, said upper plate having openings therein in registry with the wells in the reactor block, stirring mechanisms attached to said upper plate and removable with the upper plate for stirring said reaction mixtures, said stirring mechanisms extending down through the openings in the upper plate and into respective wells, and seals for sealing against leakage through said upper plate openings when the upper plate is secured to the reactor block, each stirring mechanism comprising a drive mounted on said upper plate and a multi-piece spindle rotatable by said drive, said multi-piece spindle having a metal upper spindle portion, a plastic stirrer, and a coupling for releasably coupling the plastic stirrer to the metal upper spindle portion in a position wherein the stirrer extends down into a respective well, said plastic stirrer being removable from said coupling after a mixing operation to permit discard and replacement of the stirrer. 2. An apparatus for parallel processing of reaction mixtures comprising: a reactor block having a series of wells therein extending from an exterior surface of the block for containing the reaction mixtures, a removable plate removably secured to the reactor block, the removable plate having openings therein in registry with the wells in the reactor block, a temperature control system for regulating the temperature of the reaction mixtures, and a stirring system attached to the removable plate and removable with the removable plate for agitating the reaction mixtures, the stirring system comprising: spindles extending into respective wells, each of the spindles having a first end portion and a second end portion, a stirring blade attached to the first end portion of each of the spindles, and a drive mechanism located external to the wells that is adapted to rotate the spindles. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said spindle and stirring blade are formed of a chemically resistant plastic material. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said spindle and stirring blade comprise polyethylethylketone (PEEK). 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said spindle and stirring blade comprise polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). 6. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising magnetic feed through devices for magnetically coupling the drive mechanism to the spindles. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said drive mechanism comprises a gear train for rotating each magnetic feed through device, and a motor for rotating gears of the gear train to effect conjoint rotation of the spindles at speeds from about 0 to about 3000 rpm. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising removable liners in the wells. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 8, wherein each liner has as volume of less than about 500 ml. 10. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said removable plate is removably secured face-to-face with said exterior surface of the reactor block. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said exterior surface of the reactor block is an upper surface, and wherein said removable plate is an upper plate overlying said upper surface. 12. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each of said wells is sealed against fluid communication with the other wells. 13. A combinatorial chemistry reactor system for parallel processing of reaction mixtures, said system comprising a reactor block having a series of wells therein for holding said reaction mixtures, a removable plate removably secured to the reactor block, the removable plate having openings therein in registry with the wells in the reactor block, seals for sealing the wells of the reactor block to allow said reaction mixtures to react under pressure when the removable plate is secured to the reactor block, and a stirring system supported by the removable plate and removable with the removable plate for agitating the reaction mixtures, the stirring system comprising stirrers extending into respective wells, and a drive mechanism located external to the wells for moving the stirrers to agitate reaction mixtures in the wells. 14. A system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said drive mechanism comprises a drive train for driving said stirrers, and a motor for driving the drive train. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 wherein said drive train comprises a plurality of drive gears in mesh with one another and a motor for driving said drive gears. 16. A system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said drive mechanism comprises a plurality of drive gears on the stirrers, and one or more motors for driving said drive gears. 17. A system as set forth in claim 16 wherein said drive gears are in mesh and driven by a single motor. 18. A system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said stirrers are removably attached to said drive mechanism. 19. A system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said stirrers are of a non-metal chemically resistant material. 20. A system as set forth in claim 19 wherein said stirrers are of a polymer material. 21. A system as set forth in claim 20 wherein said stirrers comprise polyethylethylketone (PEEK). 22. A system as set forth in claim 20 wherein said stirrers comprise polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). 23. A system as set forth in claim 13 further comprising fasteners for removably fastening said removable plate in face-to-face relation with an upper surface of said reactor block. 24. A combinatorial chemistry reactor system for parallel processing of reaction mixtures, said system comprising a reactor block having a series of wells therein extending down from an upper surface of the block, said wells holding said reaction mixtures, an upper plate removably secured to the reactor block in face-to-face relation with said upper surface, the removable plate having openings therein in registry with the wells in the reactor block, seals for sealing the wells of the reactor block to allow said reaction mixtures to react under pressure when the removable plate is secured to the reactor block, and a stirring system supported by the removable plate and removable with the removable plate for agitating the reaction mixtures, the stirring system comprising stirrers extending into respective wells, and a drive mechanism located external to the wells for moving the stirrers to agitate reaction mixtures in the wells, said drive mechanism comprising a drive train for driving said stirrers and one or more motors for driving said drive train, said stirrers being removably attached to said drive mechanism. 25. The reactor system as set forth in claim 24 wherein each stirrer comprises a shaft having a plastic core and a plastic mixing blade on the shaft. 26. The reactor system as set forth in claim 25 wherein each stirrer is sized for reception in a well having a volume of less than 500 ml. 27. The reactor system as set forth in claim 26, wherein each stirrer is sized for reception a well having a volume of less than about 20 ml. 28. The reactor system as set forth in claim 25, wherein said plastic core comprises polyethylethylketone (PEEK). 29. The reactor system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said plastic core comprises polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). 