A method and apparatus relating to the renting, leasing and/or loaning of electronic equipment operable and/or controllable by a computer, wherein one entity not in physical possession and/or control of the equipment desires control over another entity which has physical possession and/or control of the equipment. Such equipment may comprise a washing machine, medical, office or industrial equipment, a vending machine, etc. A central computer system includes software which enables management and execution of financial transactions between the entities, such as debiting or crediting of accounts held by these or other entities, or creating an invoice for one entity to present to another entity. Information used in making these financial transactions can be determined by analysis of information which may be communicated to the central computer system from at least one other source. Such source may include the control system of the controlled equipment, e.g., from a vending machine or the computer system of an interested entity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing operation of a function in response to a request by a user, comprising: a first computer system having at least one computer processor for selectively performing a user requested function in response to a correspondingly selective authorization for that user, said correspondingly selective authorization being produced when the user satisfies requirements of the first computer system to receive said correspondingly selective authorization, said first computer system having the ability to record and store data relating to the operational performance of the function, and a second computer system having at least one computer processor and at least some ability to record and store data relating to the operational performance of the function by the first computer system, wherein the second computer system is coupled to the first computer system and is preprogrammed to at least partially disable the performance of the user requested function irrespective of the user satisfying the requirements of the first computer system to receive said correspondingly selective authorization. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer controls at least one motor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer system controls performance of a predetermined set of functional operations, said operations including directing movement of a positioning device. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein an enable code from the second computer system can be communicated to the first computer to at least partially prevent said first computer system from said disabling. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer system is enabled to monitor and record data relating to activity of specific functions which have been performed by the first computer. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer is positioned in an apparatus for providing operation of the function, and the second computer is in a physically separate location from the apparatus housing the first computer system. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the second computer system is enabled to receive the activity data from the first computer system. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the first computer is enabled to communicate the said activity data to at least one other computer. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the second computer system has stored data which is used to provide at least one prescribed limit, the limit relating to the activity of functions performed by the first computer. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the second computer system is enabled to compare the activity data of the functions performed to the at least one prescribed limit in order to determine if the activity of at least one of the functions performed by the first computer was within the prescribed limit. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the second computer system is operable to release an enable code for the first computer system if the second computer system determines that the functions performed by the first computer were within the prescribed limit. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the second computer restricts the release of an enable code for the first computer if it determines that the functions performed by the first computer were not within the prescribed limit. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein first computer is connected to at least one other device. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the first computer stores a unique security identification code which identifies the first computer as authentic. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one other device contains at least one security circuit which is able to detect the connection with the first computer and furthermore is able to communicate with the first computer in order to at least determine whether the first computer is authentic. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first computer is positioned in an apparatus for providing operation of the function, and the second computer is in a physically separate location from the first computer, and where the ability to initiate the disabling process derives from the data first being received by the second computer system from the first computer system. 17. A system for providing operation of a function by an equipment controlled by one not in physical control or possession of the equipment, in response to a request by a user of the equipment, comprising: a first computer system having at least one computer processor for selectively performing a user requested function in response to a correspondingly selective authorization for that user, said correspondingly selective authorization being produced when the user satisfies requirements of the first computer system to receive said correspondingly selective authorization, said first computer system having the ability to record and store data relating to the operational performance of the function, and a second computer system having at least one computer processor and at least some ability to record and store data relating to the operational performance of the function by the first computer system, wherein the second computer system is coupled to the first computer system and is preprogrammed before being provided to the owner or operator of the equipment, to at least partially disable the performance of the user requested function irrespective of the user satisfying the requirements of the first computer system to receive said correspondingly selective authorization. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the first computer system controls performance of a predetermined set of functional operations, said operations including directing movement of a positioning device. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein an enable code from the second computer system can be communicated to the first computer to at least partially prevent said first computer system from said disabling. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the first computer system is enabled to monitor and record data relating to activity of specific functions which have been performed by the first computer. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the second computer system is enabled to receive the activity data from the first computer system. 