An integrated robot end effector for use in a robotic manufacturing environment. The integrated robot end effector generally includes a circular body having a generally circular rim on an edge thereof. The integrated robot end effector also includes a plurality of orifices through a surface of the body. A plurality of ports extend through a predetermined section of the rim or body of the integrated robot end effector. A plurality of grooves in a surface of the body connects the orifices to the ports within the robot end effector. A cover is secured to the rim of the robot end effector by a retainer. The robot end effector internalizes and integrates all external lines servicing associated vacuum cups or grippers located on the outer surface of the robot end effector.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A robot end effector, said end effector including: a body; a plurality of orifices through a surface of said body, said body generally having a circular shape, said body having a wall extending from an edge; a plurality of grooves on a surface of said body; a plurality of ports through said wall of said body, said grooves are in communication with said ports on an end thereof and a predetermined number of said orifices on an opposite end thereof; and a cover secured to said body, said grooves and cover form a plurality of passageways through which a gas or liquid moves. 2. The end effector of claim 1 further including a cover retainer. 3. The end effector of claim 1 further including a plurality of fasteners for mounting of the end effector. 4. The end effector of claim 1 further including a flat surface on an outer edge of said body. 5. The end effector of claim 1 wherein said body and said cover are made of an aluminum material. 6. The end effector of claim 1 wherein said body and said cover are made of a composite material. 7. The end effector of claim 1 further including a plurality of vacuum cups secured to said body. 8. The end effector of claim 1 further including a plurality of grippers secured to said body. 9. An integrated robot end effector, said end effector including: a generally circular body having a generally circular rim on an edge thereof, said rim having a circular channel on an inside surface thereof; a plurality of orifices through a surface of said body; a plurality of ports through a predetermined section of said rim; a plurality of grooves in said body connecting a predetermined number of said orifices to said ports; and a cover secured to said body by a retainer. 10. The end effector of claim 9 further including a seal between said cover and said rim. 11. The end effector of claim 9 further including a plurality of fasteners for mounting the end effector. 12. The end effector of claim 9 wherein said body and said cover are made of an aluminum or composite material. 13. The end effector of claim 9 wherein said cover, said ports, and said predetermined orifices form internal passageways for the end effector. 14. A robot, said robot including: a robot arm; an integrated end effector connected to said robot arm, said integrated end effector generally having a circular body with a rim on one end thereof, said body having a plurality of air orifices and mounting orifices through a surface thereof, said rim having a plurality of ports therethrough, said body having a plurality of grooves connecting said air orifices and said ports, said, end effector having a cover secured to said body by a retainer mechanism, said cover having a plurality of mounting orifices which align with said mounting orifices of said body, said air orifices having a plurality of vacuum cups or grippers secured therein, said air orifices, said grooves, and said ports forming an internal air passageway for said end effector; and a plurality of mounting fasteners secured between said end effector and said robot arm via said mounting orifice. 