A drop away leaf pivot unit for use with a clamp in a manufacturing environment. The drop away leaf pivot unit includes a body having a plurality of orifices therethrough and a chamber defined therein. A base member is connected to the body at one side thereof. The pivot unit includes a cylinder extending from an end of the body with a cylinder having a piston and piston rod therein. A spline shaft is rotatably supported by the body and has a drive link engaged therewith. The drive link is also connected to the piston rod on the opposite end. At least one stop member is engaged with the shaft on an end. The drop away leaf pivot unit also includes an arm secured to the shaft on an outer portion of the shaft, outside of the body of the pivot unit. A cover plate is secured to both ends of the body to ensure an enclosed operating environment for certain components of the pivot unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pivot unit for use in a manufacturing assembly line, said pivot unit including: a two piece body having a plurality of orifices through a surface, said body having a chamber defined therein; a base connected to said body; a cylinder extending from an end of said body, said cylinder having a piston and a piston rod therein; a clevis attached to an end of said piston rod within said chamber of said body; a splined shaft rotatably supported by said body; a drive link arranged within said chamber, said drive link having an orifice, said drive link engaged with said shaft; a first and a second stop member arranged within said chamber, said stop members engaged with said shaft, said first and second stop member having a predetermined angle therebetween; at least one shock absorber arranged within said chamber; at least one block member arranged within said chamber; an arm adjacent to said body, said arm engaged with said shaft, said splined shaft having a plurality of splines with a predetermined distance between said splines to allow for a predetermined number of degrees of rotation for said arm; and a cover plate secured to an end of said body. 2. The pivot unit of claim 1 further including a bar member extending from an end of said body. 