A method includes installing a device under test (DUT) into each of a plurality of burn-in boards. The method further includes docking each of the burn-in boards to a respective docking location, each of the burn-in boards with a single respective DUT installed therein. The method further includes subjecting the DUTs to a self-heating burn-in procedure while the burn-in boards are docked to the docking locations. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a support structure; a plurality of burn-in stations arrayed on the support structure; a plurality of burn-in boards mounted on the support structure, each burn-in board including at least one socket, each socket at a respective one of the burn-in stations, each socket further being adapted to receive a device under test (DUT) to be burned-in at the respective burn-in station; a tray adapted to hold DUTs; and a transporter adapted to transport the DUTs from the tray to the burn-in stations and to install the DUTs in the sockets at the burn-in stations; wherein the transporter is operative to place one of the DUTs at a respective one of the burn-in stations at a time when others of the DUTs are being burned-in at respective ones of the burn-in stations. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the transporter is a first transporter and the tray is a staging tray, the system further comprising: a tray holder; and a second transporter adapted to transport the DUTs from the tray holder to the staging tray. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first transporter includes a first robotic arm and the second transporter includes a second robotic arm. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the transporter is adapted to simultaneously transport a plurality of DUTs, and, after said transporting, to simultaneously install each of the plurality of DUTs in a respective one of the sockets. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the transporter is adapted to de-install a first DUT from one of the sockets while holding a second DUT in proximity to said one of the sockets and then to install the second DUT in said one of the sockets while holding the first DUT in proximity to said one of the sockets. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein each burn-in board has no more than one socket. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of cooling devices, each mounted at a respective one of the burn-in stations, the cooling devices being equal in number to the burn-in stations. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising a plurality of driver circuits, each mounted at a respective one of the burn-in stations to control a respective cooling device at the respective one of the burn-in stations based on a signal output from a respective DUT at the respective one of the burn-in stations, the driver circuits being equal in number to the burn-in stations. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the cooling devices are fans. 10. The system of claim 8, further comprising a controller in communication with the driver circuits and with the transporter to control the driver circuits and the transporter. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein each of the driver circuits controls a source of power for a respective socket at the burn-in station at which said each driver circuit is mounted. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the burn-in boards are mounted on a first side of the support structure and the fans and driver circuits are mounted on a second side of the support structure opposite to the first side of the support structure. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of burn-in stations comprises at least twelve burn-in stations. 14. A system comprising: a support structure; a plurality of burn-in stations arrayed on the support structure; a plurality of burn-in boards mounted on the support structure, each burn-in board including at least one socket, each socket at a respective one of the burn-in stations, each socket further being adapted to receive a device under test (DUT) to be burned-in at the respective burn-in station; a tray adapted to hold DUTs; and a transporter adapted to transport the DUTs from the tray to the burn-in stations and to install the DUTs in the sockets at the burn-in stations; wherein each of the burn-in stations includes a respective driver circuit to control a source of power for the respective socket at said each burn-in station. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the burn-in boards are mounted on a first side of the support structure and the drive circuits are mounted on a second side of the support structure opposite to the first side of the support structure. 