A storage and retrieval apparatus including a robotic device capable of gripping items stored in the apparatus and delivering the item to a separate, proximate instrument. The items to be stored are loaded from the outside of the apparatus at each face of the hexagonal or octagonal shaped storage carousel. The storage carousel, which can be manually rotated, is mounted on a stationary base, both structures including a hollow core. The robotic device includes slider bars within the core of the apparatus and is rotatable about the central axis of the apparatus. The robotic device is capable of translating vertically, telescoping horizontally, rotating and gripping an item stored at a desired location within the storage carousel. Upon retrieval of a desired item, the robotic device will proceed to retract and translate downward to an aperture within the base. The item is transferred to an adjacent instrument through the aperture using the telescopic arm of the robotic device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device comprising a carousel having a plurality of locations disposed about an axis to receive articles, a delivery station axially spaced from said locations and a robotic device located within said carousel to transfer articles between one of said locations and said delivery station, said robotic device being moveable radially relative to said axis toward and away said locations and axially to between said delivery station and said location to facilitate transfer of articles within said carousel. 2. A storage device according to claim 1 wherein said robotic device is rotatable about said axis to permit alignment with different ones of said locations. 3. A storage device according to claim 2 wherein said delivery station is located at one end of said carousel. 4. A storage device according to claim 3 wherein said delivery station is located at a lower end of said carousel. 5. A storage device according to claim 4 wherein said carousel is located on a plinth and said delivery station is located within said plinth. 6. A storage device according to claim 5 wherein said robotic device is operable in said delivery station to move an article radially between said delivery station and a workstation disposed about said plinth. 7. A storage device according to claim 5 wherein said plinth is inset from said carousel. 8. A storage device according to claim 1 wherein said robotic device includes an arm supported on a body and extendible toward and away from said locations. 9. A storage device according to claim 8 wherein said body is displaceable within said carousel along said axis. 10. A storage device according to claim 9 wherein said body is rotatable within said carousel. 11. A method of moving articles by a robotic device between a delivery station and storage locations in a carousel, said method comprising the steps of moving said article radially between said location and an interior of said carousel and axially within said carousel to said delivery station. 12. A method according to claim 11 including the step of rotating said article within said carousel to orient said article relative to said carousel. 13. A method according to claim 12 including the step of moving said article radially at said delivery station toward a workstation. 