An autonomous wheeled mobile robot (1) comprising at least one wheel-driving motor, an on-board computer, means for navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; and a wireless communication system for receiving and sending.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An autonomous wheeled mobile robot, comprising: at least one wheel-driving motor; an on-board computer; means for autonomous navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; a wireless communication system for receiving and sending; supporting means composed of a single pair of coaxial driven wheels only; a pendulum dependant oscillation balancing system; and a steering and drive system that superimposes the balancing system. 2. The mobile robot according to claim 1, wherein the center of gravity of said robot lies above a co-axis of said single pair of coaxial wheels. 3. The mobile robot according to claim 2, wherein said robot is provided, at a distance from said co-axis, with at least one downwardly depending fixed support, disposed to normally remain out of contact with an underlying surface when the robot is in upright balance, but come into contact with the underlying surface should the robot lose balance, thereby preventing the robot from tipping over. 4. The mobile robot according to claim 1, wherein the center of gravity of said robot lies below the co-axis of said single pair of coaxial wheels and that the pendulum dependent oscillation balancing system is disposed to attenuate excessive oscillation. 5. The mobile robot according to claim 1, wherein the pendulum dependent oscillation balancing system is disposed to maintain the center of gravity of the robot substantially vertically above the line of contact between said single pair of drive wheels and an underling surface even when that surface is not level. 6. The mobile robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a coupling hitch frame for autonomous selective mechanical and/or electrical coupling to, and uncoupling from, one of a plurality of different interchangeable wheeled implement modules. 7. The mobile robot according to claim 6, wherein said coupling hitch frame comprises a mechanical gripping means which can establish a coupling to an implement module having a single pair of wheels, which permits free pivoting between the robot and the implement module about a vertical axis passing through the robot-implement coupling but no pivoting between the robot and the implement module about a transverse axis passing through the robot-implement coupling. 8. The mobile robot according claim 6, wherein said coupling hitch frame comprises a mechanical gripping means which can establish a coupling to an implement module having one front pair of free running swivelable wheels and one rear pair of free running non-swievelable wheels, which permits free pivoting between the robot and the implement module about a vertical axis passing through the robot-implement coupling maintaining a substantially fixed height between said swievlable wheels and said coupling. 9. The mobile robot according claim 6, wherein said coupling hitch comprises a mechanical gripping means which can establish a coupling to an implement module having two pairs of free-running swivelable wheels, which permits no pivoting about a vertical axis passing through the robot-implement coupling. 10. The mobile robot according claim 6, wherein said coupling hitch comprises two spaced mechanical gripping means rotatable in fixed spaced relationship in a plane normal to a longitudinal axis passing through the robot. 11. The mobile robot according claim 6, wherein the coupling hitch frame is pivoted about a vertical axis passing through the midpoint between said single pair of drive wheels. 12. The use of a mobile robot according to claim 1 for transport in a peopled environment. 13. A mobile robot system for performing a plurality of separate operations, comprising: at least one autonomous wheeled mobile robot having at least one wheel-driving motor; an on-board computer; means for autonomous navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; a wireless communication system for receiving and sending signals; supporting means composed of a single pair of coaxial driven wheels only; a pendulum dependent oscillation balancing system; a steering and drive system that superimposes the balancing system; and a plurality of dockable operation modules, which are selectively couplable with the autonomous mobile robot to form an operation unit. 14. The robot system according to claim 13, wherein said balancing system is automatically deactivated when said robot is coupled to a wheeled implement module whereupon the steering and drive system controls transport of the operation unit. 15. The robot system according to claim 14, wherein said balancing system is automatically activated when said robot is decoupled from a wheeled implement module. 16. The robot system according to claim 13, wherein the autonomous mobile robot is provided with at least a pair of rearwardly directed sensors, laterally mounted on either side of the autonomous mobile robot or its coupling hitch frame, whereby a orientation, length and position of an implement module and surrounding obstacles are sensed and processed by the on-board computer. 17. The robot system according to claim 16, wherein said rearwardly directed sensors are laterally telescopically mounted to be extended beyond a width of a implement module which is coupled to the autonomous mobile robot. 18. A method of robotic performance including a plurality of separate operations by means of a mobile robot system comprising at least one autonomous wheeled mobile robot having at least one wheel-driving motor; an on-board computer; means for autonomous navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; and a wireless communication system for receiving and sending signals, the method comprising: an operation module in a module store is chosen for a predetermined operation, the robot autonomously docks with the operation module and forms an operation unit, the operation unit autonomously transports itself to an ordered location by intelligence of the robot, the operation is autonomously carried out by the operation module at the location, and the operation unit autonomously returns to the module store where the robot and the operating module are undocked. 19. A computer program product including a software program comprising instructions for a computer to perform a method according to claim 18. 20. The computer program product according to claim 19, supplied at least in part over a network such as the Internet. 21. A computer readable medium containing a computer program product according to claim 19. 22. The method according to claim 18, further comprising: balancing the robot with a pendulum dependent oscillation balancing system undocked from the operation module. 23. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: disengaging the pendulum dependent oscillation balancing system after the robot autonomously docks with the operation module. 24. The method according to claim 18, further comprising: automatically activating a balancing system when the robot is undocked from the operating module; and automatically deactivating a balancing system when the robot is docked to the operating module. 