An electronics assembly system includes an image acquisition system that is coupled to a controller through an improved interface. The coupling facilitates advanced monitoring and control of the image acquisition system. Multiple image acquisition systems can be coupled to the controller over the same interface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electronic assembly machine for performing an assembly operation on a workpiece, the machine comprising: a robotic system for performing the assembly operation based; a controller coupled to the robotic system and providing signals to the robotic system to cause the robotic system to perform the assembly operation; an image acquisition device coupled to the controller and disposed to acquire an image of the workpiece; wherein the image acquisition device is coupled to the controller through an interface operating in accordance with a Specification; and wherein the image acquisition device includes an illuminator that is controllable by the controller through the interface. 2. The machine of claim 1, wherein the illuminator is a darkfield illuminator. 3. The machine of claim 1, wherein the illuminator is a brightfield illuminator. 4. The machine of claim 1, wherein the controller monitors a number of energizations of the illuminator. 5. The machine of claim 1, wherein the image acquisition device includes a plurality of illuminators each controllable by the controller. 6. The machine of claim 1, wherein the image acquisition device includes characterization registers for providing information relating to capabilities of the image acquisition device. 7. The machine of claim 1, and further comprising storage for a parameter related to the image acquisition system. 8. The machine of claim 7, wherein the parameter is an optical parameter. 9. The machine of claim 7 wherein the parameter is a mechanical parameter. 10. The machine of claim 1, wherein the image acquisition device includes a board align camera. 11. The machine of claim 1, wherein an additional image acquisition device is coupled to the controller through the interface. 