Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of dual specific phosphatase 5. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding dual specific phosphatase 5. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of dual specific phosphatase 5 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of dual specific phosphatase 5 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An oligomeric compound comprising up to 50 nucleobases in length and comprising SEQ ID NO:38. 2. The compound of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 12. The composition of claim 10 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. A method of inhibiting the expression of dual specific phosphatase 5 in cells or tissue comprising contacting said cells or tissues in vitro with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of dual specific phosphatase 5 is inhibited. 14. A compound consisting of SEQ ID NO:38. 15. The compound of claim 14 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 16. The compound of claim 15 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 17. The compound of claim 16 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 18. The compound of claim 15 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 19. The compound of claim 18 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 20. The compound of claim 15 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprise at least one modified nucleobase. 21. The compound of claim 20 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 22. The compound of claim 15 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 23. The compound of claim 1 wherein the compound comprises up to 30 nucleobases. 