Apparatus and a method are provided for isolating an electrostatic sprayer from an electrically grounded coating product distribution circuit connected thereto. The apparatus includes an electrostatic sprayer carried by a maneuverable robot arm, the sprayer capable of spraying an electrically conductive coating product such as water-based paint onto a workpiece passing in adjacent proximity thereby, on command. The coating product is supplied from a remote source of supply through at least one distribution circuit connected to the sprayer. The apparatus includes therein, carried by the robot arm, an electrically insulative storage tank for the coating product in valved fluid communication with the sprayer. The insulated storage tank is connected to and positioned downstream from a length of electrically insulative supply conduit connected to the distribution circuit and also carried by the robot arm. This conduit includes a cleaning mechanism for cleaning a portion, including all, of this length of supply conduit, in situ, after filling of the storage tank with coating product and before spraying. In this way, substantially all of the conductive coating product is removed from the portion of supply conduit, thereby completely isolating the sprayer electrically from the distribution circuit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for isolating an electrostatic sprayer from an electrically grounded coating product distribution circuit connected thereto, the apparatus comprising: an electrostatic sprayer carried by a maneuverable robot arm, the sprayer capable of spraying an electrically conductive coating product onto a workpiece passing in adjacent proximity thereby on command, said coating product being supplied from a source of supply through at least one distribution circuit connected to said sprayer, said distribution circuit including therein, and carried by said robot arm, an electrically insulative storage tank for said coating product in valved fluid communication with said sprayer and connected to and positioned downstream from a length of electrically insulative supply conduit, said length of supply conduit also carried by said robot arm and including means for cleaning a portion, including all, of said length of supply conduit, in situ, after filling of said storage tank with coating product and before spraying, such that substantially all of said conductive coating product is removed from said portion of supply conduit, thereby isolating said sprayer electrically from said distribution circuit, wherein containment and storage of said coating product prior to spraying are effected within a deformable membrane housed within said storage tank. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said storage tank and supply conduit are formed within a unitary housing. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said supply conduit is formed of polyacetal resin. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said housing is formed of polyacetal resin. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein spraying is effected by metered pump means positioned downstream of said storage tank and upstream from said sprayer. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said pump means is a gear pump. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said membrane is made of an elastomer. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said elastomer is a fluoroelastomer. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said elastomer is a fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP) elastomer. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said elastomer is a perfluoroalkyl (PFA) elastomer. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said deformable membrane is a balloon-like chamber housed within said storage tank prior to spraying. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said supply conduit is tubular. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said means for cleaning said supply conduit includes a plunger positioned within said conduit and adapted to reciprocally traverse said length of said conduit. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said plunger is made of a fluoroelastomer. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 including driving means for driving said plunger reciprocally back-and-forth through said length of said conduit on command. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said driving means comprises air under pressure controlled by valving. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 having a valve-controlled source of compressed air connected thereto. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 including a valve-controlled source of solvent connected to said distribution circuit. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said solvent is water. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said solvent is de-ionized water. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 including a high voltage generator carried within said robot arm, said generator being supplied with low voltage via an isolated connector from an external voltage source. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 connected to a plurality of coating product distribution circuits, said circuits optionally distributing coatings of different colors. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 connected to a source of water-based paint. 24. An installation for coating a plurality of work-pieces simultaneously, said installation including a plurality of the apparatus of claim 1 connected to a plurality of coating product distribution circuits. 25. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said work-piece is an automotive vehicle. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said work-pieces are automotive vehicles. 27. Apparatus for isolating an electrostatic sprayer from an electrically grounded, water-based paint distribution circuit connected thereto, the apparatus comprising: an electrostatic spray applicator carried by a maneuverable robot arm, the applicator capable of spraying water-based paint onto an automotive vehicle passing in adjacent proximity thereby on command, said paint being supplied from a paint source through at least one grounded distribution circuit connected to said applicator, said distribution circuit including therein, and carried by said robot arm, an electrically insulative storage tank for said paint in valved fluid communication with said applicator and connected to and positioned downstream from a length of electrically insulative supply conduit, said length of supply conduit also being carried by the robot arm and including plunger means for cleaning a portion, including all, of said length of supply conduit, in situ, after filling of said storage tank with water-based paint and before spraying, such that substantially all of said conductive paint is removed from said portion of supply conduit, thereby isolating said applicator from said distribution circuit, wherein said storage tank and supply conduit are formed within a unitary housing, all made of polyacetal resin, and containment and storage of the paint prior to spraying is effected within a deformable membrane of a fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP) elastomer, and said supply conduit is tubular having a plunger of a fluoroelastomer positioned therein and adapted to reciprocally traverse said length of said conduit, and including a valve-controlled source of compressed air connected thereto providing valve-controlled driving means for driving said plunger reciprocally back-and-forth through said conduit on command. 28. An installation for painting a plurality of automotive vehicles simultaneously, including a plurality of the apparatus of claim 27 connected to a plurality of water-based paint distribution circuits. 