An electro-magnetic interference filter terminal assembly for active implantable medical devices includes a structural pad in the form of a substrate or attached wire bond pad, for convenient attachment of wires from the circuitry inside the implantable medical device to the capacitor structure via thermal or ultrasonic bonding, soldering or the like while shielding the capacitor from forces applied to the assembly during attachment of the wires.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electromagnetic interference filter terminal assembly, comprising: a capacitor having first and second sets of electrode plates, the second set of electrode plates being conductively coupled to a ground; a structural pad disposed adjacent to the capacitor and including a wire bond pad conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates; and a lead wire conductively coupled to the structural pad; wherein the structural pad is configured to at least partially protect the capacitor from forces incident to conductive coupling of the lead wire to the first set of electrode plates. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate disposed adjacent to a planar surface of the capacitor. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises a ceramic-based material. 4. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 5. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area. 6. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the lead wire is attached to the bonding area. 7. The assembly of claim 2, including an insulative material disposed between the substrate and the capacitor. 8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the lead wire is conductively coupled to the wire bond pad. 9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates. 10. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the structural pad includes a substrate disposed adjacent to the capacitor, the wire bond pad being attached to the substrate. 11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein the wire bond pad includes a first portion conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates, and a second portion conductively coupled to the lead wire. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the capacitor comprises a feedthrough capacitor having a terminal pin extending therethrough and conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates. 14. The assembly of claim 13, including a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to the ground and to the second set of electrode plates. 15. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the ferrule is conductively coupled to a housing of an active implantable medical device. 16. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate having an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 17. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area. 18. The assembly of claim 17, wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with a conductive material which couples the first set of electrode plates and the conductive surface trace. 19. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the terminal pin is conductively coupled to the lead wire, and wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with conductive material to define an electrical path from the first set of electrode plates to the lead wire independent of the terminal pin. 20. The assembly of claim 19, wherein the structural pad and the capacitor form a subassembly independent of the ferrule and the terminal pin prior to assembly therewith. 21. The assembly of claim 19, including a conductive insert disposed within a substrate recess for conductively coupling the substrate with the capacitor. 22. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the substrate includes an aperture, hole or slot for facilitating laser welding of the substrate to the terminal pin. 23. The assembly of claim 22, wherein the conductive wire bond pad has a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 24. The assembly of claim 23, wherein the wire bond pad and the capacitor form a subassembly independent of the ferrule and the terminal pin prior to assembly therewith. 25. The assembly of claim 23, wherein the aperture, hole or slot extends at least partially through the wire bond pad. 26. The assembly of claim 25, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the capacitor. 27. The assembly of claim 23, wherein the wire bond pad is spaced apart from the capacitor and supported solely on the terminal pin. 28. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the structural pad comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within a recess in the substrate, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the substrate. 29. The assembly of claim 28, wherein the substrate includes a conductive trace conductively coupled to the insert ring, and defining a lead wire bonding area on a surface of the substrate. 30. The assembly of claim 29, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the bonding area. 31. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates through the substrate. 32. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 33. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the wire bond pad includes a through-hole or slot to facilitate laser melting of a tip of the terminal pin. 34. The assembly of claim 33, wherein the terminal pin is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates through the wire bond pad. 35. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the wire bond pad includes a head configured to lie adjacent to a surface of the capacitor, and a neck extending from the head into the capacitor about an end of the terminal pin. 36. The assembly of claim 35, wherein the terminal pin is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates through the wire bond pad. 37. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the lead wire is mechanically attached to the wire bond pad. 38. The assembly of claim 27, including a screw to mechanically attach the lead wire to the wire bond pad. 39. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the capacitor is internally grounded and comprises a plurality of terminal pins, including a ground terminal pin, and the substrate includes a corresponding number of conductive traces each defining a respective bonding area. 40. The assembly of claim 39, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively bonded at least to one of the bonding areas. 41. The assembly of claim 40, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 42. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the terminal pin and the structural pad are electrically connected to one another. 43. The assembly of claim 39, wherein a lead wire is attached to one of the wire bonding areas. 44. The assembly of claim 39, wherein the substrate includes recesses configured for receiving corresponding conductive wire bond pads therein. 45. The assembly of claim 44, wherein the wire bond pads each include an aperture for receiving a respective terminal pin therethrough, each respective terminal pin and wire bond pad being conductively attached to one another. 46. The assembly of claim 45, wherein the terminal pins and the wire bond pads are welded to one another. 47. The assembly of claim 16, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge. 48. The assembly of claim 47, wherein the capacitor comprises an internally grounded capacitor having multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wherein the substrate includes corresponding aligned apertures and wire bond pads conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 49. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to a surface of the capacitor and conductively coupled to the terminal pin. 50. The assembly of claim 49, wherein the terminal pin and wire bond pad are laser welded to one another. 51. The assembly of claim 49, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 52. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to a surface of the capacitor so as to be in conductive relation to the first set of electrode plates, and wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 53. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the ferrule comprises a capture flange into which the capacitor is at least partially disposed. 54. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the capacitor is embedded within the ferrule. 55. The assembly of claim 54, including an inductor closely associated with the capacitor. 56. The assembly of claim 14, wherein the structural pad is mechanically attached to the terminal pin. 57. The assembly of claim 56, wherein the structural pad is threaded onto an end of the terminal pin. 58. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed adjacent to the capacitor and is conductively coupled to the terminal pin. 59. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 60. The assembly of claim 58, including an electrically insulative material disposed between the wire bond pad and the capacitor. 61. The assembly of claim 58, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 62. The assembly of claim 61, wherein the end of the terminal pin and the wire bond pad are conductively attached to one another. 63. The assembly of claim 58, wherein a portion of the terminal pin extending from the substrate is bent, and the wire bond pad is configured for placement over the bent portion of the terminal pin. 64. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the structural pad through which the terminal pin at least partially extends, the wire bond pad being conductively coupled to the terminal pin, and having an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 65. The assembly of claim 64, wherein the wire bond pad is laser welded to the terminal pin. 66. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the capacitor is internally grounded. 67. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the structural pad and the capacitor have aligned leak detection vents. 68. The assembly of claim 13, including an inductor closely associated with the capacitor. 69. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the capacitor perpendicular to and conductively with the first set of electrode plates. 70. The assembly of claim 69, wherein the structural pad comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within a recess of the capacitor, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the first set of electrode plates. 71. The assembly of claim 70, wherein the structural pad comprises a rectilinear multilayer substrate which is bonded to a circular feedthrough capacitor. 72. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the structural pad includes embedded conductive circuit traces extending from the terminal pin to a conductive wire bonding area on a surface of the structural pad. 73. The assembly of claim 72, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the wire bonding area. 74. The assembly of claim 72, including a conductive insert disposed within a recess in the structural pad to facilitate secure conductive contact with the terminal pin. 75. The assembly of claim 74, wherein the insert and the terminal pin are attached to one another. 76. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the capacitor comprises a chip capacitor, and wherein the wire bond pad is attached to a conductive surface of the capacitor. 77. The assembly of claim 76, wherein the wire bond pad has an angled configuration. 78. The assembly of claim 77, wherein a first portion of the wire bond pad is attached to an upper surface of the capacitor and a second portion of the wire bond pad is conductively attached to the conductive surface of the capacitor. 79. The assembly of claim 77, wherein the structural pad includes a substrate disposed between the wire bond pad and the capacitor. 80. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the capacitor comprises a chip capacitor having an aperture extending at least partially therethrough, and a conductive pin disposed within the aperture and conductively coupled to one of the first and second sets of electrode plates. 81. The assembly of claim 80, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate attached to the capacitor and conductively coupled to the pin. 82. The assembly of claim 81, wherein the wire bond pad has an extension for attachment of the lead wire thereto. 83. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the terminal pin has an enlarged end adjacent to the structural pad adapted to be connected to the lead wire. 84. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the structural pad comprises an ultraviolet cured material. 85. The assembly of claim 84, wherein the structural pad is formed in a process comprising the steps of: applying a curable substrate to a surface of the capacitor; curing a portion of the substrate; removing the non-cured portion of the substrate; and attaching conductive material onto the remaining cured portion of the substrate adapted for connection of the lead wire thereto. 86. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the substrate comprises a nonconductive polyimide. 87. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the curing step comprises exposing a portion of the polyimide to a radiation source. 88. The assembly of claim 87, wherein the radiation source comprises ultraviolet light. 89. The assembly of claim 87, including the step of placing a mask having a cut-out over the substrate and directing the radiation through the cut-out. 90. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the applying step comprises the step of spin coating the substrate onto a top surface of the capacitor. 91. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the removing step comprises exposing the substrate to a chemical wash. 92. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the attaching step comprises the step of electroplating the substrate with the conductive material. 93. The assembly of claim 85, wherein the attaching step comprises the step of vaporizing conductive material onto the substrate. 94. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad is integrally formed with the structural pad. 95. An electromagnetic interference filter terminal assembly for an active implantable medical device, comprising: a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to a housing of the active implantable medical device; a feedthrough capacitor having first and second sets of electrode plates, the second set of electrode plates being conductively coupled to the ferrule; a conductive terminal pin extending through the capacitor and conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates; a structural pad including a wire bond pad disposed adjacent to the capacitor; and a lead wire conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates by means of the structural pad; wherein the structural pad is configured to at least partially protect the capacitor from forces incident to conductive coupling of the lead wire to the first set of electrode plates. 96. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate disposed adjacent to a planar surface of the capacitor. 97. The assembly of claim 96, wherein the substrate comprises a ceramic-based material. 98. The assembly of claim 96, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 99. The assembly of claim 96, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area. 100. The assembly of claim 99, wherein the lead wire is attached to the bonding area. 101. The assembly of claim 96, including an insulative material disposed between the substrate and the capacitor. 102. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the substrate, and the lead wire is conductively coupled to the wire bond pad. 103. The assembly of claim 102, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates. 104. The assembly of claim 102, wherein the structural pad includes a substrate disposed adjacent to the capacitor, the wire bond pad being attached to the substrate. 105. The assembly of claim 104, wherein the wire bond pad includes a first portion conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates, and a second portion conductively coupled to the lead wire. 106. The assembly of claim 105, wherein the first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 107. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the structural pad comprises a substrate having an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 108. The assembly of claim 107, wherein the terminal pin is conductively coupled to the lead wire, and wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with conductive material to define an electrical path from the first set of electrode plates to the lead wire independent of the terminal pin. 109. The assembly of claim 108, wherein the structural pad and the capacitor form a subassembly independent of the ferrule and the terminal pin prior to assembly therewith. 110. The assembly of claim 108, including a conductive insert disposed within a substrate recess for conductively coupling the substrate with the capacitor. 111. The assembly of claim 107, wherein the substrate includes an aperture, hold or slot for facilitating laser welding of the substrate to the terminal pin. 112. The assembly of claim 111, wherein the wire bond pad has a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 113. The assembly of claim 112, wherein the wire bond pad and the capacitor form a subassembly independent of the ferrule and the terminal pin prior to assembly therewith. 114. The assembly of claim 112, wherein the aperture, hole or slot extends at least partially through the wire bond pad. 115. The assembly of claim 114, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the capacitor. 116. The assembly of claim 112, wherein the wire bond pad is spaced apart from the capacitor and supported solely on the terminal pin. 117. The assembly of claim 107, wherein the structural pad comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within a recess in the substrate, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the substrate. 118. The assembly of claim 117, wherein the substrate includes a conductive trace conductively coupled to the insert ring, and defining a lead wire bonding area on a surface of the substrate. 119. The assembly of claim 118, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the bonding area. 120. The assembly of claim 107, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates through the substrate. 121. The assembly of claim 120, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 122. The assembly of claim 120, wherein the wire bond pad includes a through-hole or slot to facilitate laser melting of a tip of the terminal pin. 123. The assembly of claim 122, wherein the terminal pin is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates through the wire bond pad. 124. The assembly of claim 120, wherein the wire bond pad includes a head configured to lie adjacent to a surface of the capacitor, and a neck extending from the head into the capacitor about an end of the terminal pin. 125. The assembly of claim 124, wherein the terminal pin is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates through the wire bond pad. 126. The assembly of claim 120, wherein the lead wire is mechanically attached to the wire bond pad. 127. The assembly of claim 126, including a screw to mechanically attach the lead wire to the wire bond pad. 128. The assembly of claim 107, wherein the capacitor is internally grounded and comprises a plurality of terminal pins, including a ground terminal pin, and the substrate includes a corresponding number of conductive traces each defining a respective bonding area. 129. The assembly of claim 128, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively bonded to at least one of the bonding areas. 130. The assembly of claim 129, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 131. The assembly of claim 130, wherein the terminal pin and the structural pad are electrically connected to one another. 132. The assembly of claim 128, wherein a lead wire is attached to one of the wire bonding areas. 133. The assembly of claim 128, wherein the substrate includes recesses configured for receiving corresponding conductive wire bond pads therein. 134. The assembly of claim 133, wherein the wire bond pads each include an aperture for receiving a respective terminal pin therethrough, each respective terminal pin and wire bond pad being conductively attached to one another. 135. The assembly of claim 134, wherein the terminal pins and the wire bond pads are welded to one another. 136. The assembly of claim 107, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge. 137. The assembly of claim 136, wherein the capacitor comprises an internally grounded capacitor having multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wherein the substrate includes corresponding aligned apertures and wire bond pads conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 138. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed adjacent to the capacitor and conductively coupled to the terminal pin. 139. The assembly of claim 138, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 140. The assembly of claim 138, including an electrically insulative material disposed between the wire bond pad and the capacitor. 141. The assembly of claim 138, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 142. The assembly of claim 141, wherein the end of the terminal pin and the wire bond pad are conductively attached to one another. 143. The assembly of claim 138, wherein a portion of the terminal pin extending from the substrate is bent, and the wire bond pad is configured for placement over the bent portion of the terminal pin. 144. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the structural pad through which the terminal pin at least partially extends, the wire bond pad being conductively coupled to the terminal pin, and having an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 145. The assembly of claim 144, wherein the wire bond pad is laser welded to the terminal pin. 146. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to a surface of the capacitor and is conductively coupled to the terminal pin. 147. The assembly of claim 146, wherein the terminal pin and wire bond pad are laser welded to one another. 148. The assembly of claim 146, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 149. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to a surface of the capacitor so as to be in conductive relation to the first set of electrode plates, and wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 150. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the capacitor is internally grounded. 151. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the structural pad and the capacitor have aligned leak detection vents. 152. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the ferrule comprises a capture flange into which the capacitor is at least partially disposed. 153. The assembly of claim 95, including an inductor closely associated with the capacitor. 154. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the capacitor is embedded within the ferrule. 155. The assembly of claim 154, including an inductor closely associated with the capacitor. 156. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the capacitor perpendicular to and conductively with the first set of electrode plates. 157. The assembly of claim 156, wherein the structural pad comprises a conductive insert ring disposed within a recess of the capacitor, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the first set of electrode plates. 158. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the structural pad includes embedded conductive circuit traces extending from the terminal pin to a conductive wire bonding area on a surface of the structural pad. 159. The assembly of claim 158, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the wire bonding area. 160. The assembly of claim 158, wherein the structural pad comprises a rectilinear multilayer substrate which is bonded to a circular feedthrough capacitor. 161. The assembly of claim 158, including a conductive insert disposed within a recess in the structural pad to facilitate secure conductive contact with the terminal pin. 162. The assembly of claim 161, wherein the insert and the terminal pin are attached to one another. 163. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the terminal pin has an enlarged end adjacent to the structural pad adapted to be connected to the lead wire. 164. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the structural pad comprises an ultraviolet cured material. 165. The assembly of claim 164, wherein the structural pad is formed in a process comprising the steps of: applying a curable substrate to a surface of the capacitor; curing a portion of the substrate; removing the non-cured portion of the substrate; and attaching conductive material onto the remaining cured portion of the substrate adapted for connection of the lead wire thereto. 166. The assembly of claim 165, wherein the substrate comprises a nonconductive polyimide. 167. The assembly of claim 165, wherein the curing step comprises exposing a portion of the polyimide to a radiation source. 168. The assembly of claim 167, wherein the radiation source comprises ultraviolet light. 169. The assembly of claim 167, including the step of placing a mask having a cut-out over the substrate and directing the radiation through the cut-out. 170. The assembly of claim 165, wherein the applying step comprises the step of spin coating the substrate onto a top surface of the capacitor. 171. The assembly of claim 165, wherein the removing step comprises exposing the substrate to a chemical wash. 172. The assembly of claim 165, wherein the attaching step comprises the step of electroplating the substrate with the conductive material. 173. The assembly of claim 165, wherein the attaching step comprises the step of vaporizing conductive material onto the substrate. 174. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the structural pad is mechanically attached to the terminal pin. 175. The assembly of claim 174, wherein the structural pad is threaded onto an end of the terminal pin. 176. The assembly of claim 95, wherein the wire bond is integrally formed with the structural pad. 