A method of dispensing a prescription drug to a customer includes receiving a prescription for a particular customer from an authorized medical professional, choosing from an inventory of drugs a prescription drug to fill the prescription, creating a finished prescription by filling the prescription with the chosen prescription drug, and placing the finished prescription in a dispenser. The dispenser is connected to a computer, which identifies the finished prescription and controls the dispenser to dispense the finished prescription to the particular customer.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of dispensing a prescription drug to a customer, the method comprising: identifying a particular customer's prescription to fill, said prescription authorized by a medical professional; choosing from an inventory of drugs a prescription drug to fill the prescription; creating a finished prescription by filling the particular customer's prescription with the chosen prescription drug; associating the drug with the particular customer; placing the finished prescription in a random location within a computer controlled dispenser; automatically associating the finished prescription with a random location in the dispenser after the finished prescription is placed in the dispenser; and identifying the finished prescription and controlling the dispenser to dispense the finished prescription to the particular customer upon demand. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling the dispenser comprises translating the finished prescription from the random location to a dispense point in the dispenser. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the customer utilizing an identification reader. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein utilizing an identification reader comprises utilizing a magnetic stripe card reader. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein utilizing an identification reader comprises utilizing a reader selected from a group consisting of a fingerprint reader, a retinal scanner, a credit card reader, and a barcode reader. 6. The method of claim 3, further comprising verifying an identity of the customer utilizing a password. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying the customer utilizing a user identifying information. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the user identifying information is selected from a group consisting of a user name, a password, a prescription number, a birth date, a social security number, and a personal identification number. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising electronically recording a signature of the customer to purchase the finished prescription. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising photographing the customer during interaction with the dispenser. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing the computer to maneuver a picker assembly throughout the dispenser, and wherein the picker assembly dispenses the finished prescription to the customer. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising verifying the dispensing of the finished prescription. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising labeling the finished prescription with at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the finished prescription. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing the computer to maneuver a picker assembly throughout the automated storage facility, and wherein the picker assembly dispenses the container to the customer. 15. A method of delivering a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription to a customer comprising: providing an automated prescription dispenser, said dispenser comprising a computer, a controller, and a three-dimensional array of unique storage locations, each storage location capable of storing a different, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription; randomly placing a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription into an available storage location, said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription coupled with identifying information associating the prescription with a specific customer; using said identifying information to associate the randomly-placed, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription with an unique storage location within the dispenser; controlling the dispenser to locate and deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from its random storage location after said customer has interfaced with the dispenser and requested delivery. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the pharmacy filled prescription is a prescription that has been filled by a licensed pharmacist. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said controlling step further comprises retrieving the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from the random location in the dispenser. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising identifying the customer utilizing an identification reader. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein utilizing an identification reader comprises utilizing a magnetic stripe card reader. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein utilizing an identification reader comprises utilizing a reader selected from a group consisting of a fingerprint reader, a retinal scanner, a credit card reader, and a barcode reader. 21. The method of claim 18, further comprising verifying an identity of the customer utilizing a password. 22. The method of claim 15, further comprising identifying the customer utilizing an user identifying information. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein the user identifying information is selected from a group consisting of a user name, a password, a prescription number, a birth date, a social security number, and a personal identification number. 24. The method of claim 15, further comprising electronically recording a signature of the customer before delivering the finished prescription. 25. The method of claim 15, further comprising photographing the customer during interaction with the dispenser. 26. The method of claim 15, wherein said dispenser further comprises a retrieving assembly, and said controlling step further comprises the computer causing the retrieving assembly to maneuver throughout the dispenser to locate and deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription to the customer. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the retrieving assembly is a picker assembly. 28. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of verifying that the correct pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription is delivered to the correct customer. 29. The method of claim 15, wherein the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription is labeled with at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said label is used to associate said customer-specific, pharmacist filled prescription with said unique storage location. 31. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of placing said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription into a storage container before placement into the automated dispenser. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising placing on the container at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription placed therein. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein said container is a bag. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said dispenser further comprises a picker assembly, and said controlling step further comprises the computer causing the picker assembly to maneuver throughout the dispenser to locate and deliver the container and the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription to the customer. 35. The method of claim 15, wherein a plurality of distribution trays are housed within the dispenser. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein at least one distribution tray is used to house a plurality of unique storage locations. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein at least one of the distribution trays further comprises a plurality of parallel notches defining the unique storage locations. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein at least one distribution tray is removable from said dispenser. 39. The method of claim 35, wherein the customer specific pharmacy-filled prescriptions are placed at least one of the plurality of distribution trays, and then the distribution trays are placed in the dispenser. 40. The method of claim 39, further comprising the step of placing said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription into a storage container before placement into the distribution tray. 41. The method of claim 40, further comprising placing on the storage container at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription placed therein. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein said storage container is a bag. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein said barcode label is placed substantially near the top of the bag. 44. The method of claim 15, wherein said computer is located remotely from said dispenser. 45. The method of claim 15, wherein said dispenser is located in a pharmacy. 46. The method of claim 15, wherein said dispenser is located remotely from a pharmacy. 47. The method of claim 46, further comprising the step of moving a previously stored, customer specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from one unique storage location located within the dispenser to another unique storage location located within the dispenser. 48. The method of claim 15, wherein said pharmacy-filled, customer specific prescription is stored among hundreds of other customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescriptions within the dispenser. 49. A method of delivering a pharmacy-filled prescription to a customer, wherein the pharmacy-filled prescription is associated with identifying information associating the prescription with a specific customer; the method comprising: providing an automated prescription dispenser, said dispenser comprising a controller, and a plurality of unique storage locations, a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis, wherein said storage locations are each capable of storing unique, pharmacy-filled prescriptions associated with different specific customers, wherein a plurality of unique storage locations are located in the plane formed by the first axis and the second axis, a second plurality of unique storage locations are located in the plane formed by the first axis and the third axis, and a third plurality of unique storage locations are located in the plane formed by the second axis and the third axis; placing a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription at a random storage location within the dispenser; allowing a customer access to the dispenser; using the specifically associated identifying information to locate the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription stored for the particular customer accessing the dispenser; controlling the dispenser to deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from its unique storage location to the accessing customer. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the pharmacy filled prescription is a prescription that has been filled by a licensed pharmacist. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein said controlling step further comprises retrieving the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from the random location in the dispenser. 52. The method of claim 49, wherein said storage location is not assigned until after placement in the dispenser. 53. The method of claim 49, further comprising identifying the customer utilizing an identification reader, the identification reader being part of the dispenser. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein utilizing an identification reader comprises utilizing a magnetic stripe card reader. 55. The method of claim 53, wherein utilizing an identification reader comprises utilizing a reader selected from a group consisting of a fingerprint reader, a retinal scanner, a credit card reader, and a barcode reader. 56. The method of claim 53, further comprising verifying an identity of the customer utilizing a password. 57. The method of claim 49, further comprising identifying the customer utilizing an user identifying information. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein the user identifying information is selected from a group consisting of a user name, a password, a prescription number, a birth date, a social security number, and a personal identification number. 59. The method of claim 49, further comprising electronically recording a signature of the customer before delivering the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription. 60. The method of claim 49, further comprising photographing the customer during interaction with the dispenser. 61. The method of claim 49, wherein said dispenser further comprises a translating assembly, and said controlling step further comprises the computer causing the translating assembly to maneuver throughout the dispenser to locate and deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription to the customer. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein the translating assembly is a picker assembly. 63. The method of claim 49, further comprising the step of verifying that the correct customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription is delivered to the correct customer. 64. The method of claim 49, wherein the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription is labeled with at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription. 65. The method of claim 64, wherein said label is used to associate said customer-specific, pharmacist filled prescription with said unique storage location. 66. The method of claim 49, further comprising the step of placing said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription into a storage container before placement into the automated dispenser. 67. The method of claim 66, further comprising placing on the storage container at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription placed therein. 68. The method of claim 66, wherein said container is a bag. 69. The method of claim 68, wherein said dispenser further comprises a picker assembly, and said controlling step further comprises the computer causing the picker assembly to maneuver throughout the dispenser to locate and deliver the container and the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription to the customer. 70. The method of claim 49, wherein a plurality of distribution trays are housed within the dispenser. 71. The method of claim 70, wherein at least one of the plurality of distribution trays is used to house a plurality of unique storage locations. 72. The method of claim 70, wherein at least one distribution tray is removable from said dispenser. 73. The method of claim 72, wherein the pharmacy-filled, customer specific prescriptions are placed in the distribution tray, and then the distribution tray is placed in the dispenser. 74. The method of claim 73, wherein at least one of the distribution trays further comprises a plurality of parallel notches defining the unique storage locations. 75. The method of claim 73, further comprising the step of placing said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription into a storage container before placement into the distribution tray. 76. The method of claim 75, further comprising placing on the container at least one of a barcode and an electronic identification tag correlating the customer to the pharmacy-filled, customer-specific prescription placed therein. 77. The method of claim 75, wherein said container is a bag. 78. The method of claim 77, wherein said barcode label is placed substantially near the top of the bag. 79. The method of claim 78, further comprising the step of moving a previously stored, customer specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from one unique storage location located within the dispenser to another unique storage location located within the dispenser. 80. The method of claim 49, wherein said computer is located remotely from said dispenser. 81. The method of claim 49, wherein said dispenser is located in a pharmacy. 82. The method of claim 49 wherein said dispenser is located remotely from a pharmacy. 83. A method of delivering a pharmacy-filled prescription to a customer, wherein the pharmacy-filled prescription is associated with identifying information associating the prescription with a specific customer; the method comprising: providing an automated prescription dispenser, said dispenser comprising a computer, controller, and a plurality of unique storage locations, wherein said plurality of unique storage locations are arranged in a three-dimensional array, and said storage locations are each capable of storing unique, pharmacy-filled prescriptions substantially associated with different specific customers; placing a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription at a random, unassigned storage location within the dispenser; using said identifying information to associate the randomly-placed, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription with an unique storage location within the dispenser; allowing a customer access to the dispenser; using the specifically associated identifying information to locate the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription stored for the particular customer accessing the dispenser; controlling the dispenser to deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from its unique storage location to the accessing customer. 84. The method of claim 83, wherein the pharmacy filled prescription is a prescription that has been filled by a licensed pharmacist. 85. A method of delivering a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription to a customer comprising: providing an automated prescription dispenser, said dispenser comprising a controller and a plurality of bins, each bin capable of storing a different, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription; randomly placing a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription substantially into an available bin, said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription containing identifying information associating the prescription with a specific customer; associating the randomly-placed, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription with the specific bin location within the dispenser where the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription was placed; identifying the randomly stored, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription, after said customer has interfaced with the dispenser and requested delivery; controlling the dispenser to deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from its random storage location to the particular customer. 86. The method of claim 85, wherein the pharmacy filled prescription is a prescription that has been filled by a licensed pharmacist. 87. A method of delivering a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription to a customer comprising: providing an automated prescription dispenser, said dispenser comprising a controller and a plurality of trays, each tray capable of storing a plurality of different, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription; randomly placing a customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription into an available tray, said customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription containing identifying information associating the prescription with a specific customer; after placement, using said identifying information to associate the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription with a specific tray location within the dispenser; identifying the randomly stored, customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription, after said customer has interfaced with the dispenser and requested delivery; controlling the dispenser to deliver the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription from its random storage location to the particular customer. 88. The method of claim 87, wherein the pharmacy filled prescription is a prescription that has been filled by a licensed pharmacist. 89. The method of claim 87, wherein the tray is removable from the dispenser. 90. The method of claim 89, further comprising the step of placing the customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescription substantially in the tray while the tray is removed from the dispenser. 91. The method of claim 90, wherein the tray houses a plurality of unique storage locations. 92. The method of claim 91, wherein the unique storage locations are defined by parallel v-shaped notches located on opposite sides of the trays. 93. The method of claim 92, further comprising the step of placing several customer-specific pharmacy-filled prescription substantially in the tray while the tray is removed from the dispenser, and then returning the tray to the dispenser when customer-specific, pharmacist filled prescriptions have been placed at all unique storage locations. 94. The method of claim 93, wherein a tray contains customer-specific, pharmacy-filled prescriptions for different customers. 