A machine for impregnating a die cast metal part with liquid impregnant comprises an impregnation chamber having liquid impregnant in a lower portion, an opening for ingress and egress of the parts being defined in a side wall of the chamber above the liquid impregnant, a door for sealing the opening, a part holder in the chamber and an elevator for positioning parts above the liquid impregnant during evacuation of the chamber and then immersing the parts in the liquid impregnant during subsequent pressurization of the chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. An assembly for successively impregnating multiple parts or batches of parts with liquid impregnant, the assembly including (a) impregnation apparatus for impregnating a part with liquid impregnant, the impregnation apparatus comprising an impregnation chamber having a top, a bottom and at least one side wall therebetween, the chamber defining a lower portion for receiving a liquid impregnant and an upper portion above the lower portion, a side wall of the chamber defining an opening communicating with the upper portion of the chamber, the opening being above the liquid impregnant in the chamber during impregnation, a door for sealing the opening during evacuation and subsequent pressurization of the chamber for impregnation of the part, a part holder in the chamber for receiving the part to be impregnated, and an elevator for positioning the part holder in the upper portion of the chamber so that the part is held above the liquid impregnant during evacuation of the chamber and then for positioning the part holder in the lower portion of the chamber so that the part is immersed in the liquid impregnant during subsequent pressurization of the chamber, and (b) a robot for transporting the parts to be impregnated from a supply station through the opening in the side wall of the chamber of the impregnation apparatus and into its part holder. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the robot includes a robot arm for carrying the part between the supply station and the chamber, and further wherein the opening in the chamber is arranged at an angle of no greater than 45.degree. with respect to the vertical. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the opening in the chamber is essentially vertical. 4. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a centrifuging station for removing excess liquid impregnant off the part after removal from the chamber, the centrifuging station comprising a centrifuge having a centrifuge carrier for carrying the part or parts to be centrifuged, the centrifuge carrier being mounted for rotation about a vertical axis by means of a first bearing above the centrifuge carrier and a second bearing below the centrifuge carrier. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein the assembly includes a washing station for washing the surfaces of the part after centrifuging and an optional curing station for curing the liquid impregnant inside the part, and further wherein the robot includes a robot arm which is adapted to carry the parts between the stations. 6. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the assembly includes multiple curing stations, and further wherein the robot is adapted to transport successive parts or batches of parts to different curing stations. 7. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a centrifuging station for removing excess liquid impregnant off the part after removal from the chamber, the centrifuging station being adapted to rotate the parts at a rate of at least about 200 rpm. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein the centrifuging station is located below the impregnating chamber. 9. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a centrifuging station for removing excess liquid impregnant off the parts after removal from the chamber, the centrifuging station being located below the chamber, the centrifuging station comprising a centrifuge having a centrifuge carrier for carrying the part or parts to be centrifuged, the centrifuge carrier being mounted for rotation about a vertical axis by means of a first bearing above the centrifuge carrier and a second bearing below the centrifuge carrier, a washing station for washing the surfaces of the parts received from the centrifuging station, and multiple curing stations for curing the liquid impregnant inside the parts that have been impregnated. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber is cylindrical in configuration, wherein the cylindrical chamber is arranged so that its cylindrical axis is generally horizontal, and wherein the opening is defined in an end wall of the cylinder. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part holder remains inside the chamber during loading and unloading of the parts to be impregnated. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the elevator comprises a piston having a piston rod attached to the part holder. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the elevator is rigidly fixed with respect to the top wall of the chamber during impregnation. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the elevator is a piston mounted on the top wall. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part holder is remote from the door. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an inflatable seal for sealing the door during evacuation and pressurization of the chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber defines a port for allowing vacuum, pressure or both to be imparted to the chamber interior. 18. An assembly for successively impregnating multiple parts or batches of parts with liquid impregnant, the assembly including (a) impregnation apparatus for impregnating a part with liquid impregnant, the impregnation apparatus comprising an impregnation chamber having a top, a bottom and at least one side wall therebetween, the chamber defining a lower portion for receiving a liquid impregnant and an upper portion above the lower portion, a side wall of the chamber defining an opening communicating with the upper portion of the chamber, the opening being above the liquid impregnant in the chamber during impregnation, a door for sealing the opening during evacuation and subsequent pressurization of the chamber for impregnation of the part, a part holder in the chamber for receiving the part to be impregnated, and an elevator for positioning the part holder in the upper portion of the chamber so that the part is held above the liquid impregnant during evacuation of the chamber and then for positioning the part holder in the lower portion of the chamber so that the part is immersed in the liquid impregnant during subsequent pressurization of the chamber, (b) a centrifuging station for removing excess liquid impregnant off the parts after removal from the chamber, the centrifuging station being located below the chamber, (c) a washing station for washing the surfaces of the parts received from the centrifuging station (d) multiple curing stations for curing the liquid impregnant inside the parts that have been impregnated. 19. The assembly of claim 18, wherein the centrifuging station comprises a centrifuge having a centrifuge carrier for carrying the part or parts to be centrifuged, the centrifuge carrier being mounted for rotation about a vertical axis by means of a first bearing above the centrifuge carrier and a second bearing below the centrifuge carrier. 