A thermal cycling device for biological samples. The thermal cycling device may include a sample block, an annular plate, and a plurality of spring devices interposed between the sample block and the annular plate. The sample block has a plurality of openings for receiving sample wells of a sample well tray. The annular plate may be positioned adjacent the outer periphery of the sample block and may be configured to abut a bottom surface of the sample well tray when the sample well tray is positioned thereon. The plurality of spring device may be interposed between the sample block and the annular plate to urge the annular plate and sample well tray away from the sample block.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thermal cycling device comprising: a sample block for holding a sample well tray; a plate adjacent to the sample block; a plurality of springs positioned under the plate; and a cover that provides a downward force on the sample well tray a closed position; wherein the plate provides an ejecting force on the sample well tray. 2. The thermal cycling device of claim 1, wherein the springs are helical springs. 3. The thermal cycling device of claim 1, wherein the springs are leaf springs. 4. The thermal cycling device of claim 1, wherein the plate surrounds the outer periphery of the sample block. 5. The thermal cycling device of claim 1, wherein the sample lock provides a plurality of openings for receiving the sample wells. 6. The thermal cycling device of claim 1, wherein plate abuts the bottom surface of the sample well tray. 7. A thermal cycling device comprising: a sample block for holding a sample well tray; a plate adjacent to the sample block; and a plurality of springs positioned under the plate; wherein the sample well tray sticks inside the sample block; and wherein the plate provides an ejecting force on the sample well tray. 8. The thermal cycling device of claim 7, wherein the sample we the tray sticks due to thermal expansion. 9. The thermal cycling device of claim 8, further comprising a cover that provides a downward force on the sample well tray in a closed position, wherein the sample well tray sticks due to the force provided by the cover. 10. A thermal cycling device comprising: a sample block for holding a sample well tray; an ejection plate; a plurality of springs positioned under the ejection plate; and wherein the ejection plate provides a force on the sample well tray wherein the force is adapted to remove the sample well tray with a robotic system. 11. The thermal cycling device of claim 10, wherein the springs are helical springs. 12. The thermal cycling device of claim 10, wherein the springs are leaf springs. 13. The thermal cycling device of claim 10, wherein the ejection plate surrounds the outer periphery of the sample block. 14. The thermal cycling device of claim 10, wherein the sample block provides a plurality of openings for receiving the sample wells. 15. The thermal cycling device of claim 10, wherein ejection plate abuts the bottom surface of the sample well tray. 16. A method for thermal cycling comprising: positioning in a sample block a sample well tray; closing a cover to provide a downward force on the sample well tray; thermally cycling the sample well tray; opening the cover to remove the downward force on the sample well tray; ejecting the sample well tray from the sample block with a plate positioned under the sample well tray, wherein a plurality of springs positioned below the plate provide the ejecting; removing the sample well tray from the sample block. 17. The method for thermal cycling of claim 10, wherein the posit positioning comprises inserting the sample well tray into a plurality of openings in the sample block. 