The invention provides a method for drying a web of media in a printer such as a wallpaper printer. The method includes the step of loading the web in a path that traverses a compartment in a dryer in the printer. The compartment has an opening across the top. The web is allowed to descend into the comparetent, as required, to lengthen the path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for drying a moving web of media in a printer, the method comprising the steps of: loading the web in a path that traverses a compartment in a dryer within the printer, the compartment having an opening across the top; allowing the moving web to descend into the compartment, as required, so as to adopt a suspended partial loop; and blowing heated air from above the opening into the compartment so as to dry printing on the suspended partial loop of the media web. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: a door covers the opening and acts to support the web when the door is closed. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: opening the door along an axis transverse to the path to reveal the opening. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: operating the door with a motor that operates a spool; the spool winding and releasing a cord which operates the door. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: heating the web with a preheater in the path and located before the opening. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein: the preheater is in the same plane as the door. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the source of heated air comprises a blower which feeds a stream of air into a plenum in which is located a heating element. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: using a temperature sensor in the plenum to control the flow of heated air. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: recirculating air from the compartment through a recirculation duct. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of: recirculating air from the compartment to an intake of an air supply that feeds the compartment. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of: exhausting air from the recirculation duct through a tube which extends upwardly from the compartment and includes an exhaust vent at an upper extremity. 12. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: using a second blower which feeds a stream of air into the plenum. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein: the plenum has external recirculation ducts for the compartment at either end. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein: the compartment has two vents, each one supplying vented air to a separate recirculation duct, the ducts located on opposite sides of the compartment, each duct supplying recirculated air to a source of heated air and each one having an exhaust opening at an upper extremity. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein: the source of heated air is a pair of blowers which can receive recirculated air from the compartment. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein: the blowers are located above the plenum. 17. The method of claim 7, wherein: the dryer is located within an on-demand wallpaper printer and is controlled by a processor which controls the printer. 18. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead such that the web of media is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.02 square meters per second (775 square feet per hour). 19. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead such that the web of media is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.1 square meters per second (3875 square feet per hour). 20. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead such that the web of media is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.2 square meters per second (7750 square feet per hour). 21. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead has more than 7680 nozzles. 22. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead has more than 20,000 nozzles. 23. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead has more than 100,000 nozzles. 24. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead has more than 250,000 nozzles. 25. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 5 picoliters. 26. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 3 picoliters. 27. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a full width digital color printhead and the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 1.5 picoliters. 28. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is a self contained printer for producing rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media cartridge loading area to a winding area; a full width digital color printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 29. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein utilizing an on-demand printer further comprises: loading a media cartridge into the printer, the media cartridge, comprising: a case in which a roll of blank media may be deployed; the case having two halves, hinged together, an area between the two halves, when closed, defining a media supply slot; and the case having internally and adjacent to the slot, a pair of rollers, at least one of the rollers being a driven roller which is supported at each end, by the case, for rotation by an external motor. 30. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of providing a consumer tote for carrying the roll of wallpaper, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap and a pair of core access openings; and the tote having an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings. 31. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a transverse cutter, the transverse cutter comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated to allow a web of media to pass between them; the end plates supporting between them a cutting blade; and the blade supported at each end to perform a cutting motion which begins on one side of the web and fishes on an opposite side of the web. 32. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a slitting mechanism, the slitting mechanism comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated by a transverse portion of the chassis to allow a web of media to pass between them; one or more rotating slitting shafts extending between the end plates, each shaft having one or more slitters arranged along its length, each slitter having a cutting edge; and the slitting mechanism selectively engageable to either enter or not enter a path followed by the web according to an input provided by an operator of the printer. 33. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a dryer, the dryer comprising: a compartment with a top opening for receiving a media web fed from the printer; a source of heated air located above the top opening for blowing heated air into the opening to dry printing on the media web. 34. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer comprises: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area; a printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer wherein, the length and design of the roll are determined by the operator inputs. 35. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area, there being a printhead located in the media path, a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices; using one or more input devices which communicate with the processor to capture data from an operator regarding a specification for an operator's requirements; using the processor to operatively control the printer according to the data; and printing a single roll of wallpaper, on demand, according to a selected pattern. 36. A method as claimed in claim 1 adapted for operating a wallpaper printing business, the method further comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a printhead and from the printhead to a dispensing slot; using one or more printer input devices which communicate with a processor to capture data regarding one or more customer's requirements; the data comprising at least a customer selected pattern; printing a roll of wallpaper, onto a web of blank media, on demand, according to the selected pattern; and charging a customer for the roll. 37. A method as claimed in claim 1 adapted for operating a wallpaper printing franchise, the method further comprising the steps of: providing to franchisees, an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a printhead and from the printhead to a dispensing slot; the printer having one or more printer input devices which communicate with a processor to capture data regarding one or more customer requirements, the data comprising at least a customer selected pattern; providing the franchisee with a collection of patterns in a digital storage medium that can be read by the printer; enabling the franchisee to print a roll of wallpaper, onto a web of blank media, on demand, according to the selected pattern; and obtaining or attempting to obtain a fee from the franchisee. 38. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer adapted to produce rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: a frame in which is located a media path which extends from a media loading area to a winding area; a printhead located across the media path; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 39. A method as claimed in claim 1 adapted for printing wallpaper onto a web of media, the method further comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path, there being a full width printhead located across the media path, there being a processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices and which controls the printer; using one or more input devices which communicate with the processor to capture data from an operator regarding a specification; running the printer according to the data; printing a single roll of wallpaper, on demand, according to a selected pattern and configuration; changing the pattern according to a new datum from an operator; and then printing a new roll onto the same web. 40. A method as claimed in claim 1 adapted for supplying a media web to a wallpaper printer, further comprising the steps of: opening a reusable case; placing into the case a core onto which has been located a supply roll of blank wallpaper media; supporting the core for rotation within the case; leading a free edge of the roll between a pair of rollers and past an edge of the open case; then with the rollers located within the case and on either side of the web, closing the case and loading it into a printer. 41. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer has a printhead assembly which prints onto a moving web that follows a path, the assembly comprising: a full width printhead located across the path; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; the printhead being supplied with a number of different inks which are remote from the printhead and which supply the printhead through tubes. 42. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to produce rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: a housing in which is located a media path which extends from a blank media intake to a wallpaper exit slot; a multi-color roll width removable printhead located in the housing and across the media path; the printhead being supplied by separate ink reservoirs, the reservoirs connected to the printhead by a an ink supply harness, there being a disconnect coupling between the reservoirs and the printhead; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll. 43. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of providing a consumer tote for carrying the roll of wallpaper, the tote comprising: a disposable exterior in which is formed a main access flap and a pair of core access openings; the tote having an interior in which is located a disposable core which is aligned with the access openings; both openings exposing a moulded coupling, one coupling attached to each end of the core, at least one of the couplings being a driven coupling and adapted to engage a driving spindle that rotates the core. 44. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is adapted to print onto a moving web, the printer comprising: a full width stationary printhead located on a rail along which it slides for service and removal; a number of replaceable ink reservoirs which supply the printhead with different inks; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; and the printhead being supplied with the different inks through tubes which can be disconnected so the printhead may be removed. 45. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is a self threading printer for producing rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: a media loading area adapted to support a media cartridge in a position so that a media supply slot of the cartridge is closely adjacent to a pilot guide; a cabinet housing a media path which extends from the pilot guide to a printed media dispensing slot; a printhead located across the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; a motor within the cabinet for advancing a media web out of the media cartridge; and one or more other motors adapted to urge the media along the path and out of the slot. 46. A method as claimed in claim 1 adapted for producing wallpaper on-demand, the method further comprising the steps of: utilizing an on-demand printer comprising a cabinet in which is located a media path which passes a printhead on the way to a dispensing slot; selecting a pattern and a configuration; using one or more printer input devices which communicate with a processor to input the pattern and the configuration; and printing a roll of wallpaper, onto a web of blank media, on demand, according to the selected pattern and configuration. 