A mounting for a disk drive unit includes a carrier for carrying a disk drive unit during required movement of the disk drive unit. The carrier defines a space into which the disk drive unit can be inserted, and the carrier is adapted to be inserted with the disk drive unit into a receiving frame for operational use. At least two resilient devices are mounted on the carrier for securing the disk drive unit in the receiving frame when the carrier is inserted into the frame, at least one resilient device being mounted on each side of the carrier. Each resilient device is movably mounted on the carrier to allow movement of the device as a whole relative to the carrier and the resilient device is arranged to secure the disk drive unit in the receiving frame by acting between the disk drive unit and the receiving frame. A method of handling the disk drive unit includes placing the disk drive unit into the carrier engaging a robotic device with a coupling structure projecting from the front of the carrier. The method then includes lifting the carrier by the robotic device and inserting the carrier into a receiving frame by a substantially horizontal movement.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of handling a disk drive unit comprising: placing a disk drive unit into a carrier for carrying the disk drive unit during required movement of the disk drive unit; engaging the carrier by engaging a robotic device with a coupling structure projecting from the front of the carrier; lifting the carrier by the robotic device and inserting the carrier into a receiving frame by a substantially horizontal movement; and releasing the robotic device from the coupling structure on the carrier in which the placing the disk drive unit into the carrier comprises: picking up the disk drive unit by a further robotic device by gripping the unit at the sides thereof; and depositing the disk drive unit into the carrier by lowering the unit into the carrier while gripped at the sides and releasing the further robotic device from the sides of the unit after the unit is housed in the carrier. 2. A method according to claim 1, including retaining the disk drive unit in the frame by a retaining assembly adapted to act between a main body of the disk drive unit and the receiving frame, and actuating the retaining assembly to retain the disk drive unit in the frame by the effect of the movement of the carrier into the receiving frame. 3. A method according to claim 1, including retaining the disk drive unit in the frame by means of resilient members bearing against the sides of the disk drive unit and being resiliently biased inwardly against the disk drive unit, each resilient member being movable between a first retracted position in which the resilient member is retracted wholly or partially outside the space in the carrier for receiving the disk drive unit and a second operating position in which the resilient member is biased towards the said space in the carrier to a greater extent than in the first position; the method comprising: depositing the disk drive unit into the carrier, including moving each resilient member to the said retracted position by the effect of the movement of the disk drive unit into the carrier; and moving the carrier into the receiving frame, including moving the resilient member into the second operating position by the effect of the movement of the carrier into the receiving frame. 4. A handling assembly for handing a disk drive unit, the assembly comprising: a mounting for a disk drive unit having a data storage disk, a movable disk head, and a main body supporting the disk and disk head, the mounting comprising a carrier for carrying the disk drive unit during required movement of the disk drive unit, the carrier defining a space into which the disk drive unit can be inserted, a receiving frame into which the carrier can be inserted for operational use of the disk drive unit; in which the carrier has a coupling structure projecting outwardly from a front of the carrier adapted to be engaged by a robotic device for moving the carrier into and out of the frame; a robotic device for moving the carrier into and out of the frame by engaging the robotic device with the coupling structure projecting outwardly from the front of the carrier; and a further robotic device for depositing the disk drive unit into the carrier by lowering the unit into the carrier whilst gripped at the sides and releasing the further robotic device from the sides of the unit after the unit is housed in the carrier. 5. A handling assembly according to claim 4, including a latch for securing the carrier in the said frame, and a latch actuator mounted on the coupling structure and adapted to co-operate with the robotic device to release the latch automatically upon engagement of the coupling structure by the robotic device. 6. A handling assembly according to claim 4 including a retaining assembly for securing the disk drive unit in a required position, the retaining assembly being mounted on the carrier and being operable to retain the disk drive unit in the receiving frame when the carrier is inserted into the frame. 7. A handling assembly according to claim 6, in which the retaining assembly is actuated by the effect of the movement of the carrier into the receiving frame. 8. A handling assembly according to claim 6, in which the retaining assembly is adapted to secure the disk drive unit in the receiving frame by acting between the disk drive unit and the receiving frame. 9. A handling assembly according to claim 6, in which the retaining assembly comprises resilient members arranged to retain the disk drive unit by bearing against the sides of the disk drive unit and by being resiliently biased inwardly against the disk drive unit. 10. A handling assembly according to claim 9, in which each resilient member is movable between a first retracted position in which the resilient member is retracted wholly or partially outside the said space in the carrier, allowing the disk drive unit to be inserted into the carrier, and a second operating position in which the resilient member extends into the said space in the carrier and bears against the disk drive unit. 11. A handling assembly according to claim 6, in which the retaining device includes an outwardly extending actuating surface adapted to co-operate with portions of the receiving frame, in such a way that when the carrier is located in the frame, the portions of the frame bear against the said actuating surface and push the resilient members inwardly to bear against the disk drive unit which is located in the carrier. 12. A handling assembly according to claim 6, in which the retaining assembly comprises four resilient members positioned with two resilient members towards the front of the carrier and two resilient members towards the rear of the carrier, relative to the direction of insertion of the carrier into the frame, each side of the carrier having an opening exposing the side of the disk drive unit when the disk drive unit is in the carrier, the opening being shaped to allow the disk drive unit to be deposited into or lifted from the carrier by gripping the exposed sides of the disk drive unit. 13. A handling assembly according to claim 4, in which the receiving frame comprises a tester rack adapted to receive a plurality of carriers with respective disk drive units for testing the disk drive units. 14. A handling assembly according to claim 4, in which the receiving frame comprises a data storage assembly adapted to receive a plurality of carriers with respective disk drive units for operational use of the disk drive units for data storage. 15. A handling assembly according to claim 4, in which the receiving frame comprises a frame of a computer adapted to receive a single carrier with its associated disk drive unit for data processing. 