A force feedback mouse interface device connected to a host computer and providing realistic force feedback to a user. The mouse interface device includes a mouse object and a linkage coupled to the mouse that includes a plurality of members rotatably coupled to each other in a planar closed-loop linkage, two of the members coupled to ground and rotatable about the same axis. Two actuators, preferably electromagnetic voice coils, provide forces in the two degrees of freedom of the planar workspace of the mouse object. Each of the actuators includes a moveable coil portion integrated with one of the members of the linkage and a magnet portion coupled to the ground surface through which the coil portion moves. At least one sensor is coupled to the ground surface that detects movement of the linkage and provides a sensor signal including information from which a position of the mouse object in the planar workspace can be determined.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device, comprising: at least one sensor configured to detect one of a motion and a position of a manipulandum, a location of a cursor displayed by a host computer in communication with the device being responsive to the said manipulation of the said manipulandum; at least one actuator operative to output a force feedback sensation; and a force functionality button provided on the device and manipulatable by a user, said force functionality button configured to toggle an output of the actuator when the cursor encounters a designated graphical object or region upon a graphical display of the host computer, the toggling based on the manipulation of said force functionality button by the user, wherein said force feedback sensation is applied by the said actuator when or after said force functionality button is depressed by the user, said force feedback sensation being associated with the cursor crossing a border of a click surface, said force feedback sensation being a resistive spring force resisting motion of the cursor into the click surface. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising: an indexing button provided on the device, said indexing button enabling an indexing mode. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein said at least one actuator is configured to be controlled by a local processor in response to signals received from the host computer. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the click surface is configured to be selected by the cursor when the cursor moves a predetermined threshold distance into the click surface. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the spring force enables an isometric control mode, wherein an amount of penetration of the manipulandum against the spring force is configured to control a speed of scrolling of a document displayed by the host computer. 6. The device of claim 1, said force funtionality button being a first button that can function as a first force functionality button providing a first force functionality mode, the device further comprising: a second button on said device that can function as a second force functionality button, said second force functionality button manipulatable by the user, wherein the device is configured so that manipulation of said second force functionality button causes a second force functionality mode of the device to be active, the second force functionality mode being different from the first force functionality mode. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein said second force functionality button toggles a pressure scrolling mode, a spring force being output in the pressure scrolling mode on the manipulandum opposing the movement of the cursor through a border of the click surface, a rate of scrolling of an object being adapted to be controlled by an amount of penetration of the manipulandum against the spring force. 8. A method, comprising: providing a force feedback interface peripheral including at least one sensor and at least one actuator, the actuator operative to output forces to a user of the force feedback interface peripheral; providing a button on the force feedback interface peripheral that can function as a force functionality button, the force functionality button manipulatable by the user; enabling a cursor to be controlled on a graphical display of a host computer, a displayed location of the cursor being responsive to manipulation of a portion of the force feedback interface peripheral; and enabling the force functionality button to toggle the application of a force feedback sensation by the at least one actuator when the cursor encounters a designated graphical object or region upon the graphical display of the host computer, the toggling responsive to manipulation of the force functionality button, the force feedback sensation being associated with the cursor crossing a border of a click surface, and being a resistive spring force resisting motion of the cursor into the click surface. 09. The method of claim 8, further comprising selecting the click surface based on movement of the cursor a predetermined threshold distance into the click surface. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: enabling an isometric control mode, and amount of penetration of the manipulandum against the spring force controlling a speed of scrolling of a document displayed by the host computer. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: providing an indexing button on the force feedback interface peripheral, the indexing button enabling an indexing mode. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the actuator is configured to be controlled by a local processor in response to signals recieved from the host computer. 13. The method of claim 8, the force functionality button being a first force functionality button, and the method further comprising: providing a second button on the force feedback interface peripheral that can function as a second force functionality button, the second force functionality button manipulatable by the user, wherein manipulation of the second force functionality button by the user is configured to cause a second force functionality mode to be active, the second force functionality mode being different from the first force functionality mode. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second force functionality button is configured to toggle a pressure scrolling mode, wherein a spring force is output in the pressure scrolling mode on the portion of the force feedback interface peripheral opposing movement of the cursor through a border of a designated graphical object or region, a rate of scrolling of an object being controlled by an amount of penetration of the portion of the force feedback interface peripheral against the spring force. 15. A device, comprising: at least one sensor that detects a motion or position of a manipulandum coupled to the device, a location of a cursor displayed by a host computer in communication with the device being responsive to manipulation of the manipulandum; at least one actuator operative to output a force feedback sensation; an indexing button provided on the device, said indexing button enabling an indexing mode; and a force functionality button provided on the device and manipulatable by a user, said force functionality button configured to toggle the force feedback sensation output when the cursor encounters a designated graphical object or region upon a graphical display of the host computer, said toggling responsive to manipulation of said force functionality button. 16. A method, comprising: providing a force feedback interface peripheral including at least one sensor and at least one actuator, the actuator operative to output forces to a user of the force feedback interface peripheral; providing a button on the force feedback interface peripheral, that can function as a force functionality button, the force functionality button being manipulatable; providing an indexing button on the force feedback interface peripheral, the indexing button configured to enable an indexing mode when depressed by the user; enabling a cursor to be controlled on a host computer, a displayed location of the cursor being responsive to manipulation of a portion of the force feedback interface peripheral; and enabling the force functionality button to toggle the application of a force feedback sensation by the actuator when the cursor encounters a designated graphical object or region upon the graphical display of the host computer, the toggling responsive to the manipulation of the force functionality button by the user. 17. A device, comprising: a sensor configured to detect a movement of the sensor and to output a position signal, the position signal operative to update data values associated with a location of a cursor displayed on a graphical interface; an actuator configured to output haptic feedback based on the location of the cursor displayed on the graphical interface; and a button configured to selectively modify the haptic feedback output by said actuator when the data values associated with the location of the cursor are associated with a graphical object displayed on the graphical interface, the haptic feedback being representative of a resistive spring force opposing a movement of the cursor displayed on the graphical interface. 18. The device of claim 17, further comprising: an indexing button coupled to the actuator, said indexing button configured to enable an indexing mode. 19. The device of claim 17, wherein said actuator is configured to be controlled by a local processor, the local processor configured to receive a control signal from a host computer coupled to the graphical interface. 20. The device of claim 17, wherein the position signal is operative to scroll a document displayed on the graphical interface, a speed at which the document is scrolled being proportional to a movement of the cursor into a window on the graphical interface. 21. The device of claim 17, said button being a first button, the haptic feedback being a first haptic-feedback mode, the device further comprising: a second button configured to actuate a second haptic-feedback mode. 22. A method, comprising: outputting a position signal, the position signal being based on a movement of a haptic-feedback device; updating data values associated with a location of a cursor displayed on a graphical interface, the updating being based on the position signal; using a first button associated with the haptic-feedback device to select between a first type of haptic feedback to be provided to the haptic-feedback device when the first button is in a first position and a second type of haptic feedback when the first button is in a second position different from the first position; and outputting a first haptic feedback at the haptic-feedback device based on (1) whether the first button is in the first position or the second position, (2) a feedback signal, and (3) data values associated with the location of the cursor, the data values corresponding to data values associated with one of a graphical object and a graphical region displayed on the graphical interface. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the position signal is operative to scroll a document displayed on the graphical interface, a speed at which the document is scrolled configured to be proportional to a penetration of the cursor into a window on the graphical interface. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising: outputting a second haptic-feedback based on the feedback signal; modifying the second haptic-feedback using a second button coupled to the haptic-feedback device. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said outputting the second haptic-feedback includes outputting a haptic feedback with a different force functionality than the first haptic feedback. 26. A device, comprising: a sensor configured to detect a movement of the sensor and to output a position signal, the position signal operative to update data values associated with a location of a cursor displayed on a graphical interface; an actuator configured to output haptic feedback based on the location of the cursor displayed on the graphical interface; and a button configured to selectively modify the type of haptic feedback output by said actuator when the data values associated with the location of the cursor are associated with one of a graphical object and graphical region displayed on the graphical interface, the haptic feedback corresponding to a first haptic-feedback mode when said button is in a first position and corresponding to a second haptic-feedback mode when the button is in a second position. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein the first haptic-feedback is representative of a resistive spring force and the second haptic-feedback has a different force functionality than the first haptic feedback. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein the position signal is operative to scroll a document displayed on the graphical interface, a speed at which the document is scrolled being proportional to a penetration of the cursor into a window on the graphical interface. 