Apparatus and a method are described for investigating polymorphs of a material, isomers of a material which allow different isomeric forms to be resolved, different hydrates/solvates and/or different salts of a material. The apparatus comprises an assembly (2) of reactor devices (6) arranged within a reactor body (8) which incorporates a heating/cooling block (10) and a stirrer block (12). A vessel support block (14) supports respective sample vessels (15) below each reactor device (6) for recieving material from the reactor devices. The apparatus includes a control unit (4) which includes a computer (16) which controls a robot for delivering materials to the reactor devices; a heating/cooling unit (18); a stirrer control unit (20); and a pressure unit (22) which controls the passage of material from the reactor devices (6) to the sample vessels (15).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the method being for undertaking an investigation selected from the group comprising: investigating polymorphs of a material; investigating isomers of a material in a manner which allows different isomeric forms to be resolved; investigating different hydrates/solvates of a material; or investigating different salts of a material; the method comprising; providing an array of receptacles each containing material (hereinafter "said initial material") to be investigated; subjecting said initial material in respective different receptacles to respective different treatments under the control of a computer; and analysing any material resulting from said different treatments (hereinafter "said resultant material"). 2. A method according to claim 1 which includes associating data relating to the analysis of each resultant material with information relating to the treatment(s) used to prepare said resultant material from said initial material. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein data relating to said analysis is stored in said computer and associated with said information relating to the treatment. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said computer is programmed to determine treatments to which initial material in receptacles is to be subjected. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said computer determines treatments depending upon the results of the analysis of resultant material in a first series of experiments using said array. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said different treatments to which initial material is subjected to prepare resultant material includes variable(s) relating to the solvent or solvents used in the treatments (hereinafter referred to as "solvent variables"). 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said solvent variables are selected from one or more of the following: a first solvent variable relating to the number of solvents used for preparing resultant material from initial material; a second solvent variable relating to the timing of the addition of the solvent or solvents into a receptacle; a third solvent variable relating to the amount of a solvent or solvents used in a treatment; and a fourth solvent variable relating to the identity of a solvent or solvents used. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein at least two of said solvent variables are varied in a single series of experiments using said array and/or in multiple series of experiments. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein the implementation of said solvent variables is under the control of said computer. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said different treatments to which initial material is subjected to prepare resultant material include a variable relating to the duration of the treatment of said initial material to prepare said resultant material (hereinafter "said duration variables"). 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said different treatments to which initial material is subjected to prepare resultant material include a variable relating to the operation of a heating means during the treatments (hereinafter referred to as "heating variables"). 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said heating variables are selected from one or more of the following: a first heating variable relating to the time of operation of said heating means; a second heating variable relating to the duration of operation of said heating means; and a third heating variable relating to whether operation of said heating means is continuous or in stages. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein said different treatments to which initial material is subjected to prepare resultant material include a variable relating to the operation of a cooling means during the treatments (hereinafter referred to as "cooling variables"). 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said different treatments to which initial material is subjected to prepare resultant material include variables relating to the agitation of material in the receptacles during treatment (hereinafter referred to as "agitation variables"). 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein said agitation variables are selected from one or more of the following: a first agitation variable relating to the time of operation of an agitation means for agitating material; a second agitation variable relating to the duration of operation of said agitation means; a third agitation variable relating to whether operation of said agitation means is continuous or in stages; and a fourth agitation variable relating to the rate of operation of said agitation means. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein a temperature profile is defined for each receptacle in the array and data relating to the temperature profile is stored in said computer. 17. A method according to claim 1, which includes supporting said initial material on a porous member which is porous to fluids but not to said initial material. 18. A method according to claim 1, which includes applying a pressure to prevent solvent(s) passing out of the receptacles, away from said initial material, during treatment of the initial material. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein application of said pressure is controlled by said computer. 20. A method according to claim 1, wherein said resultant material is analysed and/or liquid removed from the receptacles is analysed. 21. A method according to claim 1 which comprises investigating polymorphs of said initial material. 22. A method according to claim 21, the method including a further step of using said computer to determine variables to be adopted in a second series of experiments using said array with a view to locating additional polymorph(s). 23. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method is for the resolution of isomers of said initial material and includes the steps of: treating the initial material with a range of potential salt forming materials (hereinafter "salt formers") with a view to preparing salts of said initial materials; subjecting the materials in said receptacles to different treatments; and, after such treatments, analysing the resultant material or liquid removed from said receptacles. 24. A method according to claim 1, the method being for investigating different salts of a material and comprising the steps of treating the initial material with a range of potential salt forming materials (hereinafter "salt formers") and subjecting the materials to different treatments with a view to re-crystallising the salts of the initial material; and, thereafter, analysing the resultant materials. 25. A method of examining the effects in a treatment of a material of varying selected treatment variables, the method comprising preparing a first resultant material from an initial material using a first treatment using a first set of experimental variables and preparing a second resultant material from an initial material using a second treatment using a second set of experimental variables, wherein said first and second treatments are controlled by a computer. 26. An apparatus for investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the apparatus comprising: an array of receptacles for containing material (hereinafter "initial material") to be investigated; treatment means for subjecting initial material to respective different treatments; and a computer arranged to control the respective different treatments to which initial material is subjected; and wherein means for condensing vapour is associated with said receptacles for reducing loss of material therefrom by evaporation. 27. An apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said receptacles include a porous member which is porous to fluids but not to said initial material, wherein said porous member defines a wall for supporting initial material. 28. An apparatus according to claim 27, which includes pressure means for applying a pressure to restrict the passage of fluid from the receptacles under gravity. 29. An apparatus according to claim 28, wherein said pressure means is controlled by said computer. 30. An apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said treatment means includes temperature control means for varying the temperature of materials contained in said receptacles. 31. An apparatus according to claim 30, wherein said temperature control means includes a heating means and/or a cooling means controlled by said computer in a predetermined manner. 32. An apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said treatment means includes agitation means for agitating material in said receptacles. 33. An apparatus according to claim 26, wherein respective collection means are associated with each receptacle in the array for collecting fluid passing out of the receptacles. 34. An apparatus for investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the apparatus comprising: an array of receptacles for containing material (hereinafter initial material) to be investigated; treatment means for subjecting initial material to respective different treatments; a computer arranged to control the respective different treatments to which initial material is subjected; wherein delivery means is provided for delivering materials into the receptacles, said delivery means being arranged to select materials from a material supply means and deliver selected materials to a selected receptacle in a predetermined amount and at a predetermined time. 35. An apparatus according to claim 34 for investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material. 36. An apparatus according to claim 34 for making a library of products. 37. An apparatus according to claim 34 for effecting automatically a multiplicity of treatments of an initial material which treatments differ in at least one experimental variable. 38. An apparatus for investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the apparatus comprising: an array of receptacles for containing material (hereinafter "initial material") to be investigated; treatment means for subjecting initial material to respective different treatments; and a computer arranged to control the respective different treatments to which initial material is subjected; wherein said apparatus includes input means for inputting analytical data relating to material produced after treatment of said initial material into said computer, wherein said computer is programmed to analyse data input into it and determine variables to be used in a subsequent investigation on the same initial material, using said apparatus. 39. An apparatus according to claim 38 for investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material. 40. An apparatus according to claim 38 for making a library of products. 41. An apparatus according to claim 38 for effecting automatically a multiplicity of treatments of an initial material which treatments differ in at least one experimental variable. 42. A method according to claim 1, the method being for investigating isomers of a material in a manner which allows different isomeric forms to be resolved. 43. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method is for investigating different hydrates/solvates of a material. 44. A method according to claim 1, the method being for investigating different salts of a material. 45. A method of investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the method comprising: providing an array of receptacles each containing material (hereinafter "said initiai material") to be investigated; subjecting said initial material in respective different receptacles to respective different treatments under the control of a computer; analysing any material resulting from said different treatments (hereinafter "said resultant material"); and investigating polymorphs of said initial material. 46. A method according to claim 45, the method including a further step of using said computer to determine variables to be adopted in a second series of experiments using said array with a view to locating additional polymorph(s). 47. A method of investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the method comprising: providing an array of receptacles each containing material (hereinafter "said initial material") to be investigated; subjecting said initial material in respective different receptacles to respective different treatments under the control of a computer; and analysing any material resulting from said different treatments (hereinafter "said resultant material"); wherein the method is for the resolution of isomers of said initial material and includes the steps of: treating the initial material with a range of potential salt forming materials (hereinafter "salt formers") with a view to preparing salts of said initial materials; subjecting the materials in said receptacles to different treatments; and, after such treatments, analysing the resultant material or liquid removed from said receptacles. 48. A method of investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the method comprising: providing an array of receptacles each containing material (hereinafter "said initial material") to be investigated; subjecting said initial material in respective different receptacles to respective different treatments under the control of a computer; and analysing any material resulting from said different treatments (hereinafter "said resultant material") the method being for investigating different salts of a material and comprising the steps of treating the initial material with a range of potential salt forming materiais (hereinafter "salt formers") and subjecting the materials to different treatments with a view to re-crystallising the salts of the initial material; and, thereafter, analysing the resultant materials. 49. A method of investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the method being for undertaking an investigation selected from the group comprising: investigating polymorphs of a material; investigating isomers of a material in a manner which allows different isomeric forms to be resolved; investigating different hydrates/solvates of a material; or investigating different salts of a material; the method comprising: providing an array of receptacles each having a lower wall and each containing material (hereinafter "said initial material") to be investigated supported on a respective lower wall; subjecting said initial material in respective different receptacles to respective different treatments under the control of a computer; and analysing any material resulting from said different treatments (hereinafter "said resultant material"). 50. A method of investigating different physical and/or chemical forms of a material, the method being for undertaking an investigation selected from the group comprising: investigating polymorphs of a material; investigating isomers of a material in a manner which allows different isomeric forms to be resolved; investigating different hydrates/solvates of a material; or investigating different salts of a material; the method comprising: providing an array of receptacles each containing material (hereinafter "said initial material") to be investigated, wherein said initial material is a solid; subjecting said initial material in respective different receptacles to respective different treatments under the control of a computer; and analysing any material resulting from said different treatments (hereinafter "said resultant material"). 