A material handling tool includes a piezoelectric motor that causes actuation of a needle. Actuation of the needle may include aspiration and/or dispensing of a fluid sample and/or movement of the needle to pick or place a material sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sample handling device comprising: a body having at least one cavity formed therein; a needle in fluid communication with the cavity; a drive element; and a piezoelectric motor adapted to move the drive element over a stroke length of at least 1/8 inch, movement of the drive element causing actuation of the needle in connection with the handling of a material sample. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a movable element disposed at least in part in the cavity and coupled to the drive element such that movement of the movable element in the cavity causes fluid flow in the needle. 3. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a plunger movably disposed in the cavity and coupled to the drive element, movement of the plunger causing fluid flow in the needle. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the cavity includes a cylindrical bore, the device further comprising: a plunger having a cylindrical portion disposed in the cylindrical bore and coupled for movement with the drive element. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the needle is adapted to receive a removable pipette tip. 6. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a coupling that mates with a corresponding coupling on a robotic manipulator such that the robotic manipulator may move and control the device to pick or place material samples. 7. The device of claim 1, comprising: a plurality of needles arranged in an array to cooperate with wells in a sample holder. 8. The device of claim 7, further comprising a plurality of piezoelectric motors, each of the plurality of piezoelectric motors associated with a corresponding needle, wherein each of the plurality of needles is individually actuatable to pick up or place a material sample and the actuation of each of the plurality of needles is controlled by a corresponding piezoelectric motor. 9. The device of claim 1, comprising: a plurality of needles that are simultaneously actuatable to handle material samples. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein actuation of the plurality of needles is controlled by one piezoelectric motor. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the needle is movable relative to the body to handle a material sample. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein movement of the drive element causes fluid flow in the needle. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the needle is actuatable by both being moved relative to the body and having flow controlled in the needle. 14. A sample handling device comprising: a body having at least one elongated cavity formed therein; a needle in fluid communication with a first end of the cavity; a plunger moveable axially in the elongated cavity; and a piezoelectric motor that is arranged to move the plunger axially in the elongated cavity over a stroke length of at least 1/8 inch to actuate the needle to handle a material sample with respect to a work surface, the piezoelectric motor being arranged to move the plunger to cause the needle to aspirate and dispense the material sample. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the piezoelectric motor includes a drive element that is movable a distance of at least about 1/8 inch. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the drive element is coupled to the plunger so that movement of the drive element causes axial movement of the plunger in the cavity. 17. The device of claim 14, wherein axial movement of the plunger causes movement of the needle relative to the body to actuate the needle. 18. The device of claim 14, wherein an approximately air tight seal is created between the plunger and the cavity so that movement of the plunger in the cavity causes fluid flow at the needle. 19. The device of claim 14, wherein the body has a plurality of elongated cavities, the device comprising a plurality of needles and a plurality of plungers each respectively corresponding to an associated cavity, the plurality of needles arranged to interact with a plurality of wells in a sample holder. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the plurality of plungers are each associated with a corresponding piezoelectric motor so that movement of each of the plurality of plungers is individually controllable. 21. The device of claim 14, wherein the needle is adapted to receive a removable pipette tip. 22. The device of claim 14, further comprising: a coupling that mates with a corresponding coupling on a robotic manipulator such that the robotic manipulator may move and control the device to pick or place material samples. 23. A method for handing material samples, comprising: providing a movable element positioned at least in part within a cavity that is in fluid communication with a needle adapted to handle a material sample; moving the movable element over a stroke length of at least 1/8 inch via a piezoelectric motor; and moving a material sample via the needle based on movement of the movable element. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of moving a material sample comprises: aspirating or dispensing a liquid sample at the needle. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of moving the movable element comprises: moving a cylindrical plunger in a cavity to cause a pressure change at the needle in fluid communication with the cavity. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of moving the movable element comprises: using at least one piezoelectric element to incrementally move a drive element coupled to the movable element. 27. A sample handling device comprising: a body having at least one cavity formed therein; a needle in fluid communication with the cavity; a drive element; a piezoelectric motor adapted to move the drive element over a stroke length of at least 1/8 inch, movement of the drive element causing movement of the needle in connection with the handling of a material sample; and a capacitive sensing system that provides information regarding a position of the needle relative to a work surface, the information used to control operation of the piezoelectric motor in moving the needle relative to the work surface. 