A mobile robot system for performing a plurality of separate operations, and including at least one autonomous wheeled mobile robot having at least one wheel-driving motor, an on-board computer, a system for navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles, a sensor system, a wireless communication system operative to receive and send signals, and a plurality of dockable operation modules and operative to be selectively coupled to the autonomous mobile robot to form an operation unit, wherein the autonomous wheeled mobile robot autonomously docks to the dockable operation modules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot system for performing a plurality of separate operations, the robot system comprising: at least one autonomous wheeled mobile robot having at least one wheel-driving motor and comprising a coupling hitch frame, the coupling hitch frame comprising a horizontal bar including at least two upwardly directed hooks, an on-board computer; means for navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; a wireless communication system operative to receive and send signals; and a plurality of dockable operation modules and operative to be selectively coupled to the autonomous mobile robot to form an operation unit, wherein the autonomous wheeled mobile robot autonomously docks to the dockable operation modules, the bar being automatically lowerable to disengage from and automatically raisable to engage receiving means on each operation module. 2. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the operation modules comprise wheels. 3. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the operation modules are self-supporting. 4. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, further comprising: electrical and signaling connection between the autonomous mobile robot and the operation modules. 5. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the operation modules comprises its own power means. 6. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the autonomous mobile robot comprises a pair of freely swivelable wheels that are selectively lockable in longitudinal orientation when the autonomous mobile robot is not coupled to an operation module. 7. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the autonomous mobile robot comprises a raisable and lowerable longitudinally oriented tracking wheel that is lowerable to floor contact when the autonomous mobile robot is not coupled to an operation module. 8. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one driven wheel of the autonomous mobile robot is mounted on an axle that is pivotally mounted about a vertical axis passing through the midpoint of the axle. 9. The mobile robot system according to claim 8, wherein the coupling hitch frame is swivelable around an axis parallel to a longitudinal axis of the autonomous mobile robot. 10. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the autonomous mobile robot comprises at least a pair of rearwardly directed sensors, laterally mounted on either side of the autonomous mobile robot or its coupling hitch, whereby the orientation, length and position of an operation module and surrounding obstacles are sensed and processed by the on-board central processing unit. 11. The mobile robot system according to claim 10, wherein the rearwardly directed sensors are laterally telescopically mounted to be extended beyond the width of the operation module which is coupled to the autonomous mobile robot. 12. The mobile robot system according to claim 10, wherein the rearwardly directed sensors are ultrasonic sensors. 13. The mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein the system includes a plurality of coordinated wheeled autonomous mobile robots. 14. An autonomous robot, comprising: at least one wheel-driving motor; at least one wheel driven by the motor; an on-board computer; means for navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; a wireless communication system for receiving and sending signals; and a coupling hitch frame for autonomous selective mechanical and/or electrical coupling to and uncoupling from one of a plurality of different interchangeable wheeled operation modules, wherein the coupling hitch frame comprises a horizontal bar including at least two upwardly directed hooks, the bar being automatically lowerable to disengage from, and automatically raisable to engage receiving means on each operation module. 15. The autonomous robot according to claim 14, wherein the autonomous robot comprises a pair of non-driven, freely swivelable wheels that are selectively lockable in a longitudinal orientation when the autonomous mobile robot is not coupled to an operation module. 16. The autonomous robot according to claim 14, wherein the autonomous mobile robot comprises a non-driven raisable and lowerable longitudinally oriented tracking wheel that is lowerable to floor contact when the autonomous mobile robot is not coupled to an operation module. 17. The autonomous robot according to claim 14, wherein the at least one driven wheel of the autonomous mobile robot is mounted on an axle that is pivotally mounted about a vertical axis passing through the midpoint of the axle. 18. The autonomous robot according to 17, wherein the coupling hitch frame is pivoted about said vertical axis. 19. The autonomous robot according to claim 14, further comprising: at least two rearwardly directed sensors, laterally mounted on either side of the autonomous mobile robot or its coupling hitch frame, whereby the orientation, length and position of an operation module and surrounding obstacles can be sensed and processed by the on-board central processing unit. 20. The autonomous robot according to claim 19, wherein the rearwardly directed sensors are laterally telescopically mounted to be extended beyond the width of the operation module that is coupled to the autonomous mobile robot. 21. The autonomous mobile robot according to claim 19, wherein the rearwardly directed sensors are ultrasonic sensors. 22. A method for performing a plurality of separate operations with a mobile robot system comprising at least one autonomous wheeled mobile robot having at least one wheel-driving motor; an on-board computer; means for navigation, orientation, and maneuvering in an environment with moving obstacles; a sensor system; a wireless communication system for receiving and sending signals; and a coupling hitch frame, the coupling hitch frame comprising a horizontal bar including at least two upwardly directed hooks, the method comprising: selecting an operation module in a docking station for a predetermined operation; the robot autonomously docks with the operation module, makes electrical and signaling connection with the operation module, and forms an operation unit, wherein the docking comprises engaging the operation module with the coupling hitch; the operation unit transports itself to an ordered location by the intelligence of the robot; the operation is autonomously carried out by the operation module at the location; and the operation unit autonomously returns to the docking station where the robot and the operating module are autonomously undocked and disengaged from the coupling hitch, the bar being automatically lowerable to disengage from and automatically raisable to engage receiving means on each operation module. 