A tool for gripping ophthalmic lenses including a vacuum gripper, a shaft associated with said vacuum gripper, the shaft having two ends and being slidably attached at one end thereof to a support structure, a resilient member which biases the vacuum gripper in a direction away from said support structure and a locking member which locks the shaft in a desired position during a lens gripping operation. Another embodiment of the present invention includes a lens hold down mechanism for holding lenses in a lens tray. Another embodiment of the present invention includes an electronic communications scheme for a robotic manufacturing operation. Another embodiment of the present invention includes an ophthalmic lens manufacturing cell layout wherein ophthalmic edging machines have an opening that faces away from a robotic arm. Another embodiment of the present invention includes an arrangement for holding an ophthalmic edging machine within an ophthalmic manufacturing cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool for gripping ophthalmic lenses comprising: at least one gripper: a shaft associated with said gripper, said shaft having two ends and being slidably attached at one end thereof to a support structure a resilient member which biases said gripper in a direction away from said support structure: a locking member which locks said shaft in a desired position during a lens gripping operation, wherein the other end of said shaft is connected to a connecting plate and wherein said gripper is attached to said connecting plate. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein the longitudinal axes of the gripper and the shaft are offset. 3. A tool for gripping ophthalmic lenses comprising: at least one gripper: a shaft associated with said gripper, said shaft having two ends and being slidably attached at one end thereof to a support structure a resilient member which biases said gripper in a direction away from said support structure; a locking member which locks said shaft in a desired position during a lens gripping operation, wherein said resilient member is a spring and wherein said spring is connected between said support structure and a connecting plate. 4. The tool of claim 3, wherein the other end of said shaft is connected to a connecting plate and wherein said gripper is attached to said connecting plate. 5. A tool for gripping ophthalmic lenses comprising: at least one gripper; a shaft associated with said gripper, said shaft having two ends and being slidably attached at one end thereof to a support structure a resilient member which biases said gripper in a direction away from said support structure; a locking member which locks said shaft in a desired position during a lens gripping operation. wherein said tool is connected to a six axis robotic arm. 6. A tool for gripping ophthalmic lenses comprising: a base; a plurality of extension arms connected to said base; a vacuum gripper base plate connected to said extension arms; a shaft slideably connected to said vacuum gripper base plate at one end and fixably connected to a connecting plate at another end; a resilient member attached between said gripper base plate and said connecting plate; a vacuum gripper attached to said connecting plate, such that the longitudinal axes of the vacuum gripper and the shaft are offset. 7. The tool of claim 6, wherein the resilient member is a spring. 8. The tool of claim 7, wherein the tool further comprises a locking member comprising a piston and cylinder, wherein the locking member locks the shaft in a desired position during a lens gripping operation. 9. The tool of claim 8, wherein the locking member further comprises a friction pad attached to said piston and wherein said friction pad engages a flat portion of the cylinder during a lens gripping operation. 10. The tool of claim 6, wherein said tool is connected to a six axis robotic arm. 11. A lens hold down mechanism comprising: a support member; at least one shaft slidably connected to said support member; a resilient member which biases said shaft in a downward direction; a lens contact member attached to said shaft; a robotic arm connected to said support member, wherein when said robot moves in a downward direction to pick up a lens tray, said lens contact member will contact lenses in said tray and cause said shaft to move upwardly with respect to said support member, and wherein said resilient member maintains a pressure on said lens in said lens tray. 12. The lens hold down mechanism of claim 11, wherein said resilient member is a spring. 13. The lens hold down mechanism of claim 11, wherein said support member is attached to a lens gripper tool. 14. An arrangement for holding an ophthalmic edging machine within an ophthalmic manufacturing cell comprising: an ophthalmic edging machine; at least two rails, wherein said edging machine includes a bracket that engages said rails; and a locking mechanism, wherein said locking mechanism holds said ophthalmic edging machine in a desired position along said rails, wherein said rails contain at least one groove and wherein said locking member engages said at least one groove to lock said ophthalmic edging machine in place. 15. An arrangement for holding an ophthalmic edging machine with in an ophthalmic manufacturing cell comprising: an ophthalmic edging machine; at least two rails, wherein said edging machine includes a bracket that engages said rails; and a locking mechanism, wherein said locking mechanism holds said ophthalmic edging machine in a desired position along said rails, wherein said bracket straddles said rails and wherein said bracket includes set screws that engage with second and third grooves on said rails. 16. An arrangement for holding an ophthalmic edging machine; within an ophthalmic manufacturing cell comprising: an ophthalmic edging machine: at least two rails, wherein said edging machine includes a bracket that engages said rails; and a locking mechanism, wherein said locking mechanism holds said ophthalmic edging machine in a desired position along said rails wherein said rails contain at least one groove and wherein each rail has a locking member to lock said ophthalmic edging machine in place. 