A welding assembly including a welding gun for providing spaced welds on opposite sides of members being welded. The welding gun includes two welding tips so that both welds can be formed without moving the gun or the members relative to each other. Preferably one weld tip is connected to a force applying mechanism such as a hydraulic cylinder to clamp the members together and improve the connection between the weld tips and the members. The weld gun can be used for making one or two welds while in the engaged position around the members being welded. Also, one of the weld tips can be replaced with a support that merely provides the force applying function.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding device comprising: a main member; a first welding part coupled to said main member and having a first conductive end; a second welding part coupled to said main member and having a force applying mechanism applying a force in a first direction and a second conductive end extending from said force applying mechanism, said second conductive end being movable between a disengaged position and a welding position, said first and second conductive ends being opposite to and facing each other when said second conductive end is in said welding position; and a grounding element electrically coupled to said first conductive end during formation of a first weld and electrically coupled to said second conductive end during formation of a second weld, and said first welding part is coupled to a first transformer, and said second welding part is coupled to a second transformer. 2. A welding device according to claim 1, wherein said first welding part and said second welding part are coupled together to form a weld gun having a handle that is structured and arranged to be grasped by a user's hand. 3. A welding device according to claim 2, wherein said weld gun is coupled to a mounting structure that is structured and arranged to movably suspend the weld gun above the ground. 4. A welding device according to claim 1, further comprising: a controller coupled to each of said first and second transformers, said controller structured and arranged to provide a first weld current from said first transformer to said first conductive end and a second weld current from said second transformer to said second conductive end. 5. A welding device according to claim 1, wherein said force applying mechanism is a pressure cylinder. 6. A welding device according to claim 5, wherein said pressure cylinder is connected to a handle that is structured and arranged to be grasped by a user's hand, said handle including an activating element to activate said pressure cylinder. 7. A welding device according to claim 1, wherein the pressure cylinder is a fluid cylinder. 8. A welding device according to claim 5, wherein said pressure cylinder is structured and arranged to be generally capable of exerting between 250 to 900 pounds of pressure. 9. A method of welding comprising: providing a welding device assembly having a first welding part and a second welding part, said first welding part having a first conductive end, and the second welding part having a second conductive end; providing first and second members positioned between the first and second conductive ends with the first member having a longitudinal axis and a closed cross-section transverse to the longitudinal axis; forming a first weld between the first and second members with the first conductive end; and forming a second weld between the first and second members with the second conductive end the first and second welds being formed while a pressure cylinder applies a force through the second conductive end against the first and second members and against the first conductive end, and one of the first and second welds being formed before the other of the first and second welds, and the forming of the first and second welds occurring without moving the welding device away from the first and second members. 10. A method of welding according to claim 9, wherein the welding device assembly is provided with a handle coupled to the first and second conductive ends, and prior to forming the first and second welds, the first and second conductive ends are simultaneously positioned on opposite sides of the first and second members by a user grasping the handle and moving the welding device assembly. 11. A method according to claim 9, further comprising: controlling the welding device assembly with a computer. 12. A method according to claim 9, wherein applying the pressure to the second conductive end includes applying 250 to 900 pounds of fluid pressure to the pressure cylinder. 13. A method of welding, comprising: positioning a welding device assembly around first and second weldable members to be joined by welding, including positioning a first conductive end of the welding device assembly on one side of first and second weldable members and positioning a second conductive end of the welding device assembly on an opposite side of the first and second weldable members; applying pressure to the second conductive end to force the first and second weldable members together and to force the first and second weldable members against the first conductive end; forming a first weld between the first and second members with one of the first and second conductive ends while the pressure is applied; forming a second weld between the first and second members with the other of the first and second conductive ends after the first weld is formed and while the pressure is applied. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the welding device assembly is provided with a handle coupled to the first and second conductive ends, and the positioning of the welding device assembly includes simultaneously positioning the first and second members on opposite sides of the first and second weldable members by a user grasping the handle and moving the welding device assembly. 15. A method according to claim 13, wherein applying the pressure to the second conductive end includes providing pressure to a pressure cylinder to move the second conductive end against the first and second weldable members. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein applying the pressure to the second conductive end includes applying 250 to 900 pounds of fluid pressure to the pressure cylinder. 17. A method according to claim 13, further comprising: controlling the welding device assembly with a computer. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein, the controlling of the welding device by the computer includes controlling the pressure applied by the second conductive end, the weld current applied to each of the first and second conductive ends, and the time between the first and second welds. 