Methods for navigating a remote controlled vehicle, methods for maintaining a formation of remote controlled vehicles, and remote controlled vehicles using those methods. A vehicle is navigated using the Global Positioning System (GPS). Upon dropout of the GPS, the vehicle is navigated using a laser tracking system and one or both of: (i) a compass and (ii) wheel encoders. The navigation system may be used, in one embodiment, to maintain an echelon formation of remote controlled mine detection vehicles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for navigating a remote controlled vehicle, comprising: (a) navigating the vehicle using Global Positioning System (GPS); and (b) navigating the vehicle using a laser tracking system and one or both of: (i) a compass; and (ii) wheel encoders upon dropout of the GPS. 2. The method of claim 1, the navigating comprising maintaining the vehicle in echelon formation with other vehicles. 3. The method of claim 2, the vehicles comprising mine detection vehicles (MDVs). 4. The method of claim 1, the GPS comprising differential GPS. 5. The method of claim 1, the navigating using a laser tracking system and one or both of(i) a compass and (ii) wheel encoders occurring automatically upon dropout of the GPS. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising navigating the vehicle using a physical waypoint marker upon dropout of the GPS. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising navigating the vehicle using an inertial navigation system upon dropout of the GPS. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising using a zero velocity update algorithm in conjunction with the inertial navigation system. 9. A method for maintaining a formation of remote controlled vehicles, comprising: (a) navigating the vehicles using Global Positioning System (GPS) to maintain the formation; and (b) navigating one or more of the vehicles using a laser tracking system and one or both of: (i) a compass; and (ii) wheel encoders upon dropout of the GPS to maintain the formation. 10. The method of claim 9, the formation comprising an echelon formation. 11. The method of claim 10, the vehicles comprising mine detection vehicles (MDVs). 12. The method of claim 9, the GPS comprising differential GPS. 13. The method of claim 9, one vehicle experiencing GPS dropout at a different time than another vehicle. 14. The method of claim 9, further comprising navigating one or more of the vehicles using a physical waypoint marker upon dropout of the GPS to maintain the formation. 15. The method of claim 9, further comprising navigating one or more of the vehicles using an inertial navigation system upon dropout of the GPS to maintain the formation. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising using a zero velocity update algorithm in conjunction with the inertial navigation system. 17. A method for maintaining an echelon formation of remote controlled mine detection vehicles (MDVs), comprising: (a) navigating the MDVs using a differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) to maintain the echelon formation; (b) experiencing a dropout of the DGPS in one or more MDVs; (c) navigating each MDV not experiencing the dropout using the DGPS system to maintain the echelon formation; and (d) navigating each MDV experiencing the dropout using a laser tracking system and one or more of: (i) a compass; (ii) wheel encoders; and (iii) a physical waypoint marker upon dropout of the DGPS to maintain the formation. 18. A remote controlled vehicle configured to maintain a formation with other vehicles, comprising: a Global Positioning System (GPS) configured to navigate the vehicle to maintain the formation; a laser tracking system; a compass; wheel encoders; and wherein the laser tracking system and compass or wheel encoders are configured to navigate the vehicle to maintain the formation upon dropout of the GPS. 19. The method of claim 9, where maintaining the formation of remote controlled vehicles is done by a single operator. 20. The method of claim 9, where a positional error between two vehicles comprises .+-.10 cm. 21. The method of claim 9, where the dropout of the GPS comprises the dropout of the GPS of said one or more of the vehicles. 22. The remote controlled vehicle of claim 18, where the maintaining a formation with other vehicles comprises following a lead vehicle. 23. A remote controlled vehicle configured to maintain a formation with a lead vehicle comprising: a Global Positioning System (GPS) configured to navigate the vehicle to maintain the formation; and a laser tracking system; wherein the laser tracking system is configured to navigate the vehicle to maintain the formation upon dropout of the GPS. 24. The remote controlled vehicle of claim 18, where the laser system is aided by at least one or both of a heading and wheel speed information to maintain the formation upon dropout of the GPS. 