According to a first aspect, a first conveyor system is provided that is adapted to deliver substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility. The first conveyor system includes a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. The ribbon is adapted to (1) be flexible in a horizontal plane and rigid in a vertical plane; and (2) transport a plurality of substrate carriers within at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. Numerous other aspects are provided, as are systems, methods and computer program products in accordance with these and other aspects.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A conveyor system adapted for use in delivering substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility comprising: a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility, the ribbon adapted to; be flexible in a horizontal plane and rigid in a vertical plane; and transport a plurality of substrate carriers within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility; wherein the ribbon comprises: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion that extends outward from the vertical portion so as to create a supporting surface adapted to support a weight of the ribbon. 2. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the vertical and horizontal portions are formed from a single piece of material. 3. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the vertical and horizontal portions are formed from separate pieces of material. 4. The conveyor system of claim 3 wherein the horizontal portion comprises a plurality of horizontal sections coupled to the vertical portion. 5. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the horizontal portion comprises a plurality of slots adapted to increase flexibility of the ribbon in a horizontal direction. 6. The conveyor system of claim 5 wherein the plurality of slots are evenly spaced along the ribbon. 7. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon comprises stainless steel. 8. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon comprises a vertical portion having a first feature adapted to identify a beginning of the ribbon. 9. The conveyor system of claim 8 wherein the first feature comprises at least a first opening formed through the vertical portion. 10. The conveyor system of claim 8 wherein the vertical portion of the ribbon further comprises a plurality of second features, each second feature adapted to identify a location at which a substrate carrier may be held and transported by the ribbon. 11. The conveyor system of claim 10 wherein each second feature comprises at least a second opening formed through the vertical portion. 12. The conveyor system of claim 11 wherein the at least a first opening comprises a first plurality of openings and wherein the at least a second opening comprises a second plurality of openings. 13. The conveyor system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of supports rigidly coupled to the ribbon, each support adapted to support and transport a substrate carrier within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. 14. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon is adapted to transport single substrate carriers. 15. A conveyor system adapted for use in delivering substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility comprising: a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility, the ribbon adapted to: be flexible in a horizontal plane and rigid in a vertical plane; transport a plurality of substrate carriers within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility; and continuously rotate; wherein the ribbon comprises: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion that extends outward from the vertical portion so as to create a supporting surface adapted to support a weight of the ribbon. 16. The conveyor system of claim 15 wherein the ribbon comprises stainless steel. 17. The conveyor system of claim 15 wherein the ribbon comprises a vertical portion having a first feature adapted to identify a beginning of the ribbon. 18. The conveyor system of claim 17 wherein the vertical portion of the ribbon further comprises a plurality of second features, each second feature adapted to identify a location at which a substrate carrier may be held and transported by the ribbon. 19. The conveyor system of claim 15 further comprising a plurality of supports rigidly coupled to the ribbon, each support adapted to support and transport a substrate carrier within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. 20. The conveyor system of claim 15 wherein the ribbon is adapted to transport single substrate carriers. 21. A conveyor system adapted for use in delivering substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility comprising: a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility, the ribbon adapted to: be flexible in a horizontal plane and rigid in a vertical plane; and continuously rotate; and a plurality of supports rigidly coupled to the ribbon, each support adapted to support and transport a substrate carrier within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility; wherein the ribbon comprises: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion that extends outward from the vertical portion so as to create a supporting surface adapted to support a weight of the ribbon. 22. The conveyor system of claim 21 wherein the ribbon comprises stainless steel. 23. The conveyor system of claim 21 wherein the ribbon comprises a vertical portion having a first feature adapted to identify a beginning of the ribbon. 24. The conveyor system of claim 23 wherein the vertical portion of the ribbon further comprises a plurality of second features, each second feature adapted to identify a location at which a substrate carrier may be held and transported by the ribbon. 25. The conveyor system of claim 21 wherein the ribbon is adapted to transport single substrate carriers. 26. A conveyor system adapted for use in delivering substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility comprising: a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility; and a plurality of supports rigidly coupled to the ribbon, each support adapted to support and transport a single carrier within the at least the portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility; wherein the ribbon comprises: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion that extends outward from the vertical portion so as to create a supporting surface adapted to support a weight of the ribbon. 27. The conveyor system of claim 26 wherein the ribbon is adapted to continuously rotate during transport and delivery of substrate carriers. 28. The conveyor system of claim 26 wherein the ribbon comprises stainless steel. 29. The conveyor system of claim 26 wherein the ribbon comprises a vertical portion having a first feature adapted to identify a beginning of the ribbon. 30. The conveyor system of claim 29 wherein the vertical portion of the ribbon further comprises a plurality of second features, each second feature adapted to identify a location at which a substrate carrier may be held and transported by the ribbon. 31. The conveyor system of claim 26 wherein the ribbon is adapted to transport single substrate carriers. 32. A method of transporting substrate carriers comprising: forming a closed loop along at least a portion of a semiconductor device manufacturing facility with a ribbon, the ribbon adapted to be flexible in a horizontal plane and rigid in a vertical plane and having: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion that extends outward from the vertical portion so as to create a supporting surface adapted to support a weight of the ribbon; and transporting a substrate carrier within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility with the ribbon. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the ribbon comprises stainless steel. 34. The method of claim 32 wherein the ribbon comprises a vertical portion having a first feature adapted to identify a beginning of the ribbon. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the vertical portion of the ribbon further comprises a plurality of second features, each second feature adapted to identify a location at which a substrate carrier may be held and transported by the ribbon. 36. The method of claim 32 further comprising rigidly coupling a plurality of supports to the ribbon, each support adapted to support and transport a substrate carrier within the at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. 37. The method off claim 32 wherein transporting substrate carriers comprises transporting single substrate carriers. 