A system for backing up data includes a data-directing device configured to receive data to be backed up, a first backup storage device that is communicatively coupled to the data-directing device and that is configured to store the received data, a data-caching device that is coupled to the data-directing device and that is configured to store the received data, a switch that is configured to communicatively couple the data-directing device to a second backup storage device responsive to a backup operation failure, wherein data stored in the data-caching device is transferred to the second backup storage device via the data-directing device responsive to the backup operation failure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for backing up information, comprising: receiving by a data-directing device data to be backed up, the data-directing device being communicatively coupled to a data-caching device and to a first backup storage device; storing the received data by the data-caching device; storing the received data by the first backup storage device; configuring a switch to communicatively couple the data-directing device to a second backup storage device responsive to a backup operation failure; and transferring data stored by the data-caching device to the second backup storage device via the data-directing device, wherein the data-directing device is configured to mimic the first backup storage device when the second backup storage device is in use. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the switch is a fibre channel switch. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the backup storage devices are storage medium drives. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the received data is stored on a storage medium by the backup storage device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein storing the received data by the data-caching device and storing the received data by the first backup storage device are performed substantially simultaneously. 6. A method for backing up information, comprising: receiving by a first data-directing device data to be backed up, the first data-directing device being communicatively coupled to a first data-caching device and to a first backup storage device; storing the received data by the first data-caching device; storing the received data by the first backup storage device; configuring a switch to communicatively couple the first data-caching device to a second data-directing device responsive to a backup operation failure; and transferring data stored by the first data-caching device to a second backup storage device via the second data-directing device, wherein the first data-directing device is configured to mimic the first backup storage device when the second backup storage device is in use. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the switch is a fibre channel switch. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the backup storage devices are storage medium drives. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the received data is stored on a storage medium by the first backup storage device. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein storing the received data by the first data-caching device and storing the received data by the first backup storage device are performed substantially simultaneously. 11. A system for backing up information, comprising: a data-directing device configured to receive data to be backed up; a first backup storage device that is communicatively coupled to the data-directing device and that is configured to store the received data; a data-caching device that is coupled to the data-directing device and that is configured to store the received data; a switch that is configured to communicatively couple the data-directing device to a second backup storage device responsive to a backup operation failure, wherein data stored in the data-caching device is transferred to the second backup storage device via the data-directing device responsive to the backup operation failure, wherein the data-directing device is configured to mimic the first backup storage device when the second backup storage device is in use. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the switch is a fibre channel switch. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the backup storage devices are storage medium drives. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the received data is stored on a storage medium by the first backup storage device. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein storing the received data by the data-caching device and storing the received data by the first backup storage device are performed substantially simultaneously. 16. A system for backing up information, comprising: a first data-directing device configured to receive data to be backed up; a first backup storage device that is communicatively coupled to the first data-directing device and that is configured to store the received data; a data-caching device that is coupled to the first data-directing device and that is configured to store the received data; a switch that is configured to communicatively couple a second data-directing device to the data-caching device responsive to a backup operation failure, wherein data stored in the data-caching device is transferred to a second backup storage device via the second data-directing device responsive to the backup operation failure, wherein the first data-directing device is configured to mimic the first backup storage device when the second backup storage device is in use. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the switch is a fibre channel switch. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the backup storage devices are storage medium drives. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the received data is stored on a storage medium by the first backup storage device. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein storing the received data by the first data-caching device and storing the received data by the first backup storage device are performed substantially simultaneously. 