An autonomous vibration-driven device, for motion through a lumen or along a surface, utilizing an array of flexible fibers attached to the body of the device. The outer surface of the fibers have an anisotropic coefficient of friction with the surface along which the device is to move, and the fibers extend from the device body such that at least some of the fibers are in contact with the walls along a part of their length. A transducer is used to vibrate the device, such that it moves down the lumen. The transducer can be either device borne or external. A rotary device is also described, utilizing an array of fibers disposed on the rotor's body, the fibers having an anisotropic coefficient of friction with a central stator or with an outer circular wall. A planar motion device is also described for crawling over a planar surface.
Claims We claim: 1. A vibration-driven device comprising a body having a plurality of flexible fibers attached thereto, the surface of at least some of said fibers having along at least part of their length, anisotropic friction with at least one juxtaposed surface, said fibers extending from said body such that at least some of them are in contact with said at least one juxtaposed surface along part of their length, wherein mutual vibratory motion between said device and said juxtaposed surface causes said device to move relative to said at least one juxtaposed surface. 2. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said mutual vibratory motion arises from a vibration generating system. 3. A device according to claim 2 and wherein said vibration generating system comprises an external field which operates on an element disposed in said device. 4. A device according to claim 3 and wherein said external field is an alternating magnetic field, and said element disposed in said device comprises either one of a magnetic material or a magnet. 5. A device according to claim 2 and wherein said vibration generating system is either a transducer disposed on said device, operative to vibrate said device, or is a system operative to vibrate said at least one juxtaposed surface. 6. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said at least one juxtaposed surface is either one of the inside wall of a lumen, or is at least one inside wall of a straight walled conduit. 7. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said at least one juxtaposed surface is a planar surface. 8. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said body is an annular body having a central bore, and said at least one juxtaposed surface is disposed inside said central bore of said annular body. 9. A device according to claim 8 and wherein said at least one juxtaposed surface disposed inside said central bore of said annular body is a guide wire or the external wall of a lumen, and said device crawls therealong. 10. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said at least one juxtaposed surface is the inside wall of an annular housing, said device being disposed within said annular housing and said fibers being attached to said body such that they contact said annular housing circumferentially, such that said device rotates within said annular housing. 11. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said body is an annular body having a central bore, and said fibers are attached circumferentially to the inside of said central bore, such that said body rotates round a post disposed within said central bore. 12. A device according to claim 11, further comprising a linear follower coupled to an outer surface of said annular body, such that said device generates linear motion in said follower. 13. A device according to claim 6 and wherein said fibers are attached to said body in groups such that the fibers of one group are oriented in one direction relative to the axis of said lumen, and those of the other group in the opposite direction, said device further comprising a mechanism for deploying and stowing one or the other of said groups of fibers, such that said device can move along the axis of said lumen in either direction according to which group of fibers is deployed. 14. A device according to claim 6 and wherein said fibers are attached to said body in groups, the fibers of a first group being attached to said body on at least one segment on one side of a diametric plane through the cross section of said body, said at least one segment being oriented at a first angle to a line perpendicular to said diametric plane, at least part of some of said fibers being in contact with said inside wall of said lumen, and those of a second group being attached to said body on at least another segment on the opposite side of said diametric plane through the cross section of said body, said at least another segment being oriented at a second angle to a line perpendicular to said diametric plane, said second angle having the opposite sense to said first angle, such that said device performs both rotary and linear motion through said lumen when said mutual vibratory motion is actuated. 15. A device according to claim 8, and wherein said fibers are attached to said central bore of said annular body in groups, the fibers of a first group being attached to said body on at least one segment on one side of a diametric plane through the cross section of said body, said at least one segment being oriented at a first angle to a line perpendicular to said diametric plane, at least part of some of said fibers being in contact with said at least one juxtaposed surface, and those of a second group being attached to said body on at least another segment on the opposite side of said diametric plane through the cross section of said body, said at least another segment being oriented at a second angle to a line perpendicular to said diametric plane, said second angle having the opposite sense to said first angle, such that said device performs both rotary and linear motion along said at least one juxtaposed surface when said mutual vibratory motion is actuated. 16. A device according to claim 14, and wherein the orientation angles of said segments can be interchanged, such that the direction of linear motion of said device is reversed. 17. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said anisotropic coefficient of friction with said at least one juxtaposed surface arises from spikes disposed superficially along at least some of said fibers. 18. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said anisotropic coefficient of friction with said at least one juxtaposed surface arises from an anisotropic characteristic of said at least one juxtaposed surface. 19. A device according to claim 1 and wherein said vibration generating system is a pulsating lumen. 20. A device for autonomous motion through a pulsating lumen, comprising: a body having a plurality of flexible fibers attached thereto, the surface of at least some of said fibers having along at least part of their length, anisotropic friction with the inner wall of said lumen, said fibers extending from said body such that at least some of them are in contact with said inner wall of said lumen along part of their length such that pulsation of said lumen causes said device to move along said lumen. 21. A device according to claim 20, wherein said pulsating lumen is either one of a blood vessel of a subject or a portion of the gastro-intestinal tract of a subject. 22. A vibration-driven device comprising: a body having a plurality of flexible fibers attached to said body in a spiral form along said body, the surface of at least some of said fibers having along at least part of their length, anisotropic friction with at least one juxtaposed surface, said fibers extending from said body such that at least some of them are in contact with said at least one juxtaposed surface along part of their length; wherein mutual vibratory motion between said device and said juxtaposed surface causes said device to move relative to said at least one juxtaposed surface. 23. A device according to claim 22 and wherein said at least one juxtaposed surface is the inner wall of a lumen, such that said device performs both rotary and linear motion through said lumen when said mutual vibratory motion is actuated. 24. A device according to claim 23, wherein said fibers are attached to said body in groups, a first group being attached to said body on at least one half segment of said spiral on one side of a diametric plane through the cross section of said spiral, and a second group being attached to said body on at least another half segment of said spiral on the opposite diametric side of said spiral cross section, and wherein the orientation angles which said first and second segments make with a line perpendicular to said diametric plane can be interchanged, such that the direction of motion of said device is reversed. 25. A device according to claim 22 and wherein said wherein said body is an annular body having a central bore, and said at least one juxtaposed surface is any one of a guide wire or a lumen disposed inside said central bore of said annular body, such that said device performs both rotary and linear motion along said guide wire when said mutual vibratory motion is actuated. 26. A device according to claim 25 and wherein said at least one juxtaposed surface is the outer wall of said guide wire or lumen, such that said device performs both rotary and linear motion along said guide wire or lumen when said mutual vibratory motion is actuated. 27. A device according to claim 26, wherein said fibers are attached to said body in groups, a first group being attached to said body on at least one half segment of said spiral on one side of a diametric plane through the cross section of said spiral, and a second group being attached to said body on at least another half segment of said spiral on the opposite diametric side of said spiral cross section, and wherein the orientation angles which said first and second segments make with a line perpendicular to said diametric plane can be interchanged, such that the direction of motion of said device is reversed. 