A camera assembly comprises a lens housing 24, an objective lens 21 mounted in the lens housing, and a stop 22 located in the lens housing. The stop 22 has a first surface 25 facing towards the objective lens 21, and this first surface is adapted to present information to a user viewing the first surface through the objective lens. The information presented is therefore visible to the user, but not exposed to wear and tear or tampering. This arrangement is particularly useful in a camera with a digital sensor, particular a low cost digital camera with a sensor such as a CMOS sensor. Such an arrangement can advantageously be used for a camera provided as an eye of a toy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A camera assembly, comprising: an optical element at a first end of an optical assembly to receive light entering the optical assembly; a stop, located in the optical assembly between the optical element and a second end of the optical assembly, wherein the stop has a first surface facing towards the optical element, and wherein the first surface is adapted to present information to a user viewing the first surface through the optical element; and a sensor element to which light received through the optical element and not blocked by the stop is focussed. 2. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the camera assembly further comprises a lens housing, wherein the optical element and the stop are located within the lens housing. 3. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optical element is an objective lens. 4. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the information presented to the user relates to the nature or operation of the camera assembly, or of a device of which the camera assembly is a part. 5. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the camera assembly is adapted to be mounted in another object, and wherein the information presented to the user relates to the appearance of the another object. 6. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 5, wherein the visual significance of the camera assembly is as an eye. 7. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 6, wherein the camera assembly is adapted for use as the eye of a toy. 8. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the camera assembly comprises one or more additional optical components. 9. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the stop is an iris diaphragm. 10. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the stop is fixed to an optical element located in a lens housing. 11. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the optical element is an objective lens. 12. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the stop is fixed to the optical element by index matching cement. 13. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the stop is affixed to the optical element. 14. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sensor element is an optical detector which provides digital pixel values as an output. 15. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 14, wherein the sensor element is a CMOS sensor. 16. A camera assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the information presented to the user is printed information. 17. A method of indicating information to a user of a camera, comprising displaying the information on a stop, the stop located in an optical assembly behind an external surface of the optical assembly, wherein the stop has a first surface facing towards the external surface of the optical assembly, and wherein the first surface is adapted to present the information to a user viewing the first surface through the external surface of the optical assembly. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising displaying printed information on the stop. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising displaying printed instructions on the stop describing use of the camera. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising displaying printed information on the stop describing characteristics of the camera. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising displaying a surface patterned to resemble the iris of an eye. 22. A system of indicating information to a user of a camera, comprising means for displaying the information on a stop, the stop located in an optical assembly behind an external surface of the optical assembly, wherein the stop has a first surface facing towards the external surface of the optical assembly, and wherein the first surface is adapted to present the means for displaying the information to a user viewing the first surface through the external surface of the optical assembly. 