A variety of embodiments are disclosed, in both apparatus and method form, that relate to the use of fabric material in the manufacture of an air bag deployment system. In addition, fabric weakening is disclosed according to a technique that does not result in physical alteration of the fabric. This invention therefore includes an air bag cover for an air bag safety system for a vehicle comprising a fabric outer layer having a frontside and a backside and a substrate containing an opening wherein the opening has a periphery. The substrate is preferably formed by low pressure molding, wherein the fabric outer layer overlies the opening in the substrate, and wherein the fabric outer layer is weakened at a location that is adjacent or overlies the substrate opening periphery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An air bag cover for an air bag safety system for a vehicle comprising: a fabric outer layer having a front side and a backside, and comprising a weakened portion and a non-weakened portion; a low pressure molded substrate containing an opening closed by an airbag door, said door having a periphery at least a portion of which comprises a door/substrate tear seam, the low pressure molded substrate formed behind said fabric outer layer being molded at a clamp pressure of less than or equal to about 1000 psi; wherein the fabric outer layer overlies the opening closed by said door in the substrate, and wherein said non-weakened portion of said fabric layer overlies a portion of said door periphery and said weakened portion is located outboard of said door/substrate tear seam, wherein said weakened portion of said fabric layer is weakened by providing said fabric layer comprising lower strength fibers at the weakened portion. 2. The air bag cover of claim 1, wherein said door is formed integrally with said substrate, said door having an outer edge and a hinge region and wherein said non-weakened portion of said fabric outer layer overlies said hinge region. 3. The air bag cover of claim 2, wherein said substrate is provided with a weakening groove along said periphery of said door and said weakening groove defines at least a portion of said outer edge of said door. 4. An air bag cover for an air bag safety system for a vehicle comprising: a fabric outer layer having a front side and a backside, and comprising a reinforced portion and a non-reinforced portion, both portions including fibers; a low pressure molded substrate containing an opening closed by a door, said door having a periphery at least a portion of which comprises a door/substrate tear seam, the low pressure molded substrate formed behind said fabric outer layer being molded at a clamp pressure of less than or equal to about 1000 psi; wherein the fabric outer layer overlies the opening closed by said door in the substrate, and wherein said non-reinforced portion of said fabric layer is located outboard of said door/substrate tear seam. 5. The air bag cover of claim 4, wherein said door is formed integrally with said substrate, said door having a hinge region, and wherein said reinforced portion of said fabric layer overlies said hinge region. 6. The air bag cover of claim 4, wherein said reinforced portion of said fabric layer comprises fibers having a higher strength than said fibers forming said non-reinforced portion. 7. The air bag cover of claim 6, wherein said higher strength fibers comprise aramid fiber. 8. The air bag cover of claim 6, wherein said higher strength fibers are woven into said fabric layer. 9. The air bag cover of claim 4, wherein said non-reinforced portion of said fabric layer comprises a weakened portion that overlies a portion of said periphery. 