A substrate processing system has a first substrate cleaner and a second substrate cleaner. The first substrate cleaner comprises a forward portion and a rear portion. The forward portion includes a rotatable substrate support. The rear portion is vertically thicker than the forward portion. The rear portion includes a device for rotating the support. The second substrate cleaner includes the elements included in the first substrate cleaner. The second substrate cleaner is stacked above the first substrate cleaner with the forward portions being vertically aligned and the rear portions being vertically aligned. A space is formed between the forward portions to permit access to the forward portion of the first substrate cleaner and to permit ample gas flow into the area between the forward portions of the first and the second substrate cleaners.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a first substrate cleaner comprising: a. a forward portion including: (1) a rotatable substrate support; (2) a dispenser for applying fluid onto a substrate; and (3) a transmitter to be positioned closely spaced above the substrate to enable a meniscus of the fluid to be formed between the transmitter and the substrate, the transmitter being configured to cause particles on the substrate to be loosened in response to megasonic energy being applied to the transmitter; and b. a rear portion vertically thicker than the forward portion including: (1) a device for rotating the support; (2) at least one supply line for conducting fluid to the dispenser; (3) a drive module for moving the transmitter; and (4) connections for applying megasonic energy to the transmitter; and a second substrate cleaner including the elements set forth above as being included in the first substrate cleaner, the second substrate cleaner being stacked above the first substrate cleaner with the forward portions being vertically aligned and the rear portions being vertically aligned, and a space being formed between the forward portions to permit access to the forward portion of the first substrate cleaner and to permit ample gas flow into the area between the forward portions of the first and the second substrate cleaners. 2. The substrate processing system of claim 1, further comprising a substrate drying assembly having a substrate drying assembly support arm mounted to be moved into and out of a position closely spaced above the upper surface of the substrate supported on the substrate support, the drying assembly including an outlet for dispensing drying vapor to the surface of the substrate. 3. The substrate processing system of claim 2, further comprising a drive module in the rear portion for moving the drying assembly. 4. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein the rotatable substrate support of the first substrate cleaner is vertically fixed, and wherein the first substrate cleaner further comprises a process bowl having a slot in the outer wall configured to enable a robot arm to move into and out of the bowl to position the substrate on the rotatable substrate support of the first substrate cleaner and to withdraw the substrate from the rotatable substrate support of the first substrate cleaner. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 4, wherein the first substrate cleaner further comprises a splash guard positioned within the process bowl and surrounding the rotatable substrate support and in position to surround a substrate mounted on the rotatable substrate support, the surface being configured so that fluid being spun off a substrate by centrifugal action will be deflected in a manner so as to not splash back onto the substrate. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 5, wherein the splash guard has an annular surface facing the area to be occupied by a substrate. 7. The substrate processing system of claim 6, wherein the annular surface facing the area to be occupied by a substrate is positioned at an angle with respect to the horizontal, the angle being between 30 and 40 degrees. 8. The substrate processing system of claim 5, wherein the splash guard has a mesh surface facing the area to be occupied by a substrate. 9. The substrate processing system of claim 5, wherein the splashguard is moveable so that it can alternately block the slot and allow the robot arm to access the area to be occupied by the substrate. 10. A method of manufacturing a substrate processing system comprising: providing a first substrate cleaner comprising a. a forward portion including: (1) a rotatable substrate support; (2) a dispenser for applying fluid onto a substrate; and (3) a transmitter to be positioned closely spaced above the substrate to enable a meniscus of the fluid to be formed between the transmitter and the substrate, the transmitter being configured to cause particles on the substrate to be loosened in response to megasonic energy being applied to the transmitter; and b. a rear portion vertically thicker than the forward portion including: (1) a device for rotating the support; (2) a line for conducting fluid to said dispenser; (3) a drive module for moving the transmitter; and (4) connections for applying megasonic energy to the transmitter; providing a second substrate cleaner comprising the elements set forth above as being included in the first substrate cleaner; and configuring the first and second substrate cleaners to enable them to be stacked to form a space between the forward portions to permit access to the forward portion of the first substrate cleaner and to permit ample gas flow into the area between the forward portions of the first and the second substrate cleaners. 11. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 10, further comprising stacking the second substrate cleaner above the first substrate cleaner with the forward portions being vertically aligned and the rear portions being vertically aligned. 12. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 10, wherein the step of providing a first substrate cleaner further comprises providing a first substrate cleaner having a process bowl surrounding the substrate support, the bowl having a slot in the outer wall configured to enable a robot arm to move into and out of the bowl to position the substrate on the substrate support and to withdraw the substrate from the substrate support. 13. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 10, including the step of providing a substrate drying assembly in said front portion mounted to be moved radially into and out of a position closely spaced above the upper surface of a substrate supported on the substrate support, the drying assembly including an outlet for dispensing drying vapor to the surface of the substrate. 14. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 10, wherein the step of providing a first substrate cleaner further comprises providing a first substrate cleaner having a vertically fixed rotatable substrate support, and having a process bowl having a slot in the outer wall configured to enable a robot arm to move into and out of the bowl to position the substrate on the rotatable substrate support of the first substrate cleaner and to withdraw the substrate from the rotatable substrate support of the first substrate cleaner. 15. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 14, wherein the step of providing a first substrate cleaner further comprises providing a splash guard positioned within the process bowl and surrounding the rotatable substrate support and in position to surround a substrate mounted on the rotatable substrate support, the surface being configured so that fluid being spun off a substrate by centrifugal action will be deflected in a manner so as to not splash back onto the substrate. 16. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 15, wherein the step of providing a splash guard further comprises providing a splash guard having an annular surface facing the area to be occupied by a substrate. 17. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 16, wherein the annular surface facing the area to be occupied by a substrate is positioned at an angle with respect to the horizontal, the angle being between 30 and 40 degrees. 18. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 15, wherein the step of providing a splash guard further comprises providing a splash guard having a mesh surface facing the area to be occupied by a substrate. 19. The method of manufacturing a substrate processing system of claim 15, wherein the step of providing a splash guard further comprises providing a splash guard that is moveable so that it can alternately block the slot and allow the robot arm to access the area to be occupied by the substrate. 