A method for preventing an emission head or arm assembly from entering an exclusion zone. The method may include calculating a variable dimension exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system, and preventing at least one of the emission head or arm assembly from entering the variable dimension exclusion zone. The method may also include establishing a exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system, the radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head, moving the emission head during treatment of a patient, wherein the exclusion zone travels with the emission head, and detecting a presence and location of an object in the traveling exclusion zone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: calculating a variable dimension exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system, the radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly; and preventing at least one of the emission head or arm assembly from entering the variable dimension exclusion zone. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises defining one or more moveable boundaries as dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising changing the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein changing the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises selectively disabling one or more moveable boundaries of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more moveable boundaries are planar barrier, and wherein changing the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises selectively disabling one or more planar barriers. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising modifying the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone during treatment. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein modifying the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises receiving feedback information from a patient positioning system. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein modifying the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises receiving feedback information from a controller of a radiosurgery system. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein preventing at least one of the emission head or arm assembly from entering the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises stopping any further motion of the at least one of emission head or arm assembly when the at least one of emission head or arm assembly reaches a boundary of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein preventing the at least one of emission head or arm assembly from entering the variable dimension exclusion zone comprises: calculating an additional exclusion zone, wherein the additional exclusion zone is a first layer and the exclusion zone is a second layer, wherein the first layer is outside the second layer; and slowing down motion of the at least one of emission head or arm assembly upon reaching a boundary of the additional exclusion zone. 11. A method, comprising: establishing a exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system, the radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head; moving the emission head during treatment of a patient, wherein the exclusion zone travels with the emission head; and detecting a presence and location of an object in the traveling exclusion zone. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the radiosurgery system comprises an arm assembly coupled to the x-ray source having the emission head, and wherein the exclusion zone travels with the arm assembly. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the object comprises a part of the radiosurgery system. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the object comprises a part of the patient. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the object comprises a part of an equipment in a treatment room in which the radiosurgery system resides. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising preventing the emission head from effecting a collision with the object in the traveling exclusion zone. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein preventing the emission head from effecting the collision comprises: detecting an intrusion of the object into the traveling exclusion zone; and preventing or slowing down further relative advance of the object in the traveling exclusion zone. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein preventing the emission head from effecting the collision comprises: detecting an intrusion of the object into the traveling exclusion zone; and preventing or slowing down further relative advance of the object in the traveling exclusion zone. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein detecting the intrusion of the object comprises using at least one of a laser rangefinder, one or more optical emitter-receiver pairs, an array of acoustic transducers, a capacitance sensor, or an infrared sensor to detect the intrusion of the object. 20. An apparatus, comprising: a radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly; and a controller coupled to the radiosurgery system, the controller to calculate a variable dimension exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system, wherein the controller is configured to prevent at least one of the emission head or arm assembly from entering the variable dimension exclusion zone. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the controller is configured to define one or more moveable boundaries as dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone, and wherein the controller is configured to change the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the controller is configured to define one or more moveable boundaries as dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone, and wherein the controller is configured selectively disable one or more moveable boundaries of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 23. An apparatus, comprising: a radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head and an arm assembly; and means for calculating a variable dimension exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, further comprising means for preventing at least one of the emission head or arm assembly from entering the variable dimension exclusion zone. 25. The apparatus of claim 23, further comprising means for changing the dimensions of the variable dimension exclusion zone. 26. An apparatus, comprising: means for establishing a exclusion zone of a radiosurgery system, the radiosurgery system comprising an x-ray source having an emission head; means for moving the emission head during treatment of a patient, wherein the exclusion zone travels with the emission head; and means for detecting a presence and location of an object in the traveling exclusion zone. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising means for preventing the emission head from effecting a collision with the object in the traveling exclusion zone. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising: means for detecting an intrusion of the object into the traveling exclusion zone; and means for preventing or slowing down further relative advance of the object in the traveling exclusion zone. 