A construction member, comprising an elongated body having a longitudinal dimension with a first end and a second end. Complementary end rotational joint portions are provided at the first end and at the second end of the elongated body, for interconnecting first end to second end a plurality of the construction member so as to form a polygon with construction members. A longitudinal rotational joint portion is provided in the longitudinal dimension of the elongated body for interconnecting two longitudinally adjacent ones of the construction member so as to interconnect polygons of the construction member at a common edge of the polygons to form a polyhedron.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A polyhedron constructed of identical construction members each having a longitudinal dimension with a first end and a second end, with complementary end rotational joint portions at the first end and at the second end, and a longitudinal rotational joint portion in the longitudinal dimension, the polyhedron comprising: polygons, each said polygon having at least three of the identical construction members connected first end to second end so as to form end rotational joints with the complementary end rotational joint portions; edges, each said edge being formed by a pair of the identical construction members of adjacent polygons being connected side-by-side so as to form a longitudinal rotational joint with the longitudinal rotational joint portions, each said edge being colinear with a longitudinal rotational axis of the longitudinal rotational joint; and vertices, each said vertex being formed by an intersection of at least three of the longitudinal rotational axes of three or more of said polygons. 2. The polyhedron according to claim 1, wherein rotational axes of the end rotational joint portions on the construction members are parallel to one another. 3. The polyhedron according to claim 2, wherein the rotational axes of the end rotational joint portions of the construction members are perpendicular to a rotational axis of the longitudinal rotational joint portion of the construction members. 4. The polyhedron according to claim 1, wherein interconnected ones of the joint portions are matingly engaged to one another. 5. The polyhedron according to claim 4, wherein the end rotational joint portion of the first end has a female portion of a rotational joint, and the end rotational joint portion of the second end has a male portion of a rotational joint complementary to the female portion. 6. The polyhedron according to claim 4, wherein the longitudinal rotational joint portion has a female portion of a rotational joint, and a male portion of a rotational joint spaced from the female portion on the longitudinal dimension of the body and complementary to the female portion, rotational axes of the female portion and of the male portion being coincident to define a rotational axis of the longitudinal rotational joint portion. 7. The polyhedron according to claim 6, wherein the end rotational joint portion of the first end has a female portion of a rotational joint, and the end rotational joint portion of the second end has a male portion of a rotational joint complementary to the female portion. 8. The polyhedron according to claim 6, wherein a distance between the female portion and the male portion in the longitudinal dimension is of two dimension units, a distance between the female portion and an adjacent intersection of rotational axes of the longitudinal rotational joint portion and of an adjacent one of the end rotational joint portions is of one dimension unit, and a distance between the male portion and of an adjacent intersection of rotational axes of the longitudinal rotational joint portion and of an adjacent one of the end rotational joint portions is of one dimension unit. 9. The polyhedron according to claim 7, wherein a distance between the female portion and the male portion in the longitudinal dimension is of two dimension units, a distance between the female portion and an adjacent intersection of rotational axes of the longitudinal rotational joint portion and of an adjacent one of the end rotational joint portions is of one dimension unit, and a distance between the male portion and of an adjacent intersection of rotational axes of the longitudinal rotational joint portion and of an adjacent one of the end rotational joint portions is of one dimension unit. 10. The polyhedron according to claim 9, wherein the male portion and the female portion of the longitudinal rotational joint portion are respectively complementary to the female portion and the male portion of the end rotational joint portions, for engagement of ends of the construction members to longitudinal joint portions of adjacent ones of the construction members to form rotational joints therebetween. 11. The polyhedron according to claim 9, wherein a distance between the end rotational joint portions and the rotational axis of the longitudinal rotational joint portion is of one dimension unit. 12. The polyhedron according to claim 1, further comprising a connector in the longitudinal dimension of the elongated body and away from the longitudinal rotational joint portion, for being connected to an adjacent one of the construction members of another polyhedron, to interconnect polyhedra. 13. The polyhedron according to claim 1, wherein the construction members are injection-molded. 14. The polyhedron according to claim 1, further comprising a joint in the elongated body such that said longitudinal dimension is expandable. 15. The polyhedron according to claim 1, wherein a polygon is formed with at least one of the construction members and a parallelogram mechanism equivalent to two of the construction members in the polygon. 16. The polyhedron according to claim 1, wherein polygons in the polyhedron formed with a plurality of the construction members are deformable while remaining planar. 17. A method for assembling a polyhedron with a plurality of identical construction members, comprising the steps of: providing identical construction members each having a longitudinal dimension with a longitudinal rotational axis, and opposed ends, each of the identical construction members being connectable to one other identical construction member at said longitudinal dimension and one other identical construction member at each said end to form rotational joints; forming polygons, each polygon being formed by interconnecting end to end at least three of the identical construction members so as to form an end rotational joint between each interconnected pair of identical construction members; and forming edges and vertices by interconnecting pairs of the identical construction members of adjacent polygons at said longitudinal dimensions such that the longitudinal rotational axes of the pair are superposed, with any one of the edges defined by the superposed longitudinal rotational axes of any one of the pairs of identical construction members, and with any one of the vertices each defined by an intersection of at least three of the edges. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein said identical construction members have complementary mating joint portions at said longitudinal rotational axis and at said ends, such that interconnected ones of the identical construction members are matingly interconnected in the step of forming edges and vertices. 