A recoil mitigation apparatus for a projectile-firing device, such as an explosives disrupter, is provided. At least one brake shoe is positioned proximate the projectile-firing device and means are provided for urging the at least one brake shoe toward the projectile-firing device. The urging of the at least one brake shoe provides a frictional force to mitigate the recoil of the projectile-firing device. In a preferred embodiment, at least one pair of brake shoes are provided. In a further preferred embodiment, the each of the at least one pair of brake shoes are positioned in a facing, spaced apart relationship and the at least one pair of brake shoe combination is positioned in a coaxial relationship to the projectile-firing device.
Claims We claim: 1. A recoil mitigation apparatus for a projectile-firing device, comprising at least one brake shoe proximate the projectile-firing device and means for urging the at least one brake shoe toward the projectile-firing device, and wherein when the device is fired, a force-time profile of the recoil is substantially constant. 2. The recoil mitigation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the urging means is adapted to effect a frictional force whereby the recoil of the projectile-firing device is mitigated. 3. The recoil mitigation apparatus of claim 2, further comprising at least one pair of brake shoes, the at least one pair of brake shoes forming brake shoe combination. 4. The recoil mitigation apparatus of claim 3, wherein each of the pair of brake shoes are positioned in a facing, spaced apart relationship. 5. The recoil mitigation apparatus of claim 4, wherein the brake shoe combination is positioned in a coaxial relationship to the projectile-firing device. 6. The recoil mitigation apparatus of claim 2, wherein the urging means comprises compression means. 7. The recoil mitigation apparatus of claim 2, wherein the urging means comprises at least one spring. 8. A method of mitigating the recoil of a projectile-firing device, the method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning at least one brake shoe proximate to the projectile-firing device; (b) urging the at least one brake shoe toward the projectile-firing device; and (c) firing the projectile-firing device, whereby the at least one brake shoe creates a frictional force to create a substantially constant force-time recoil profile. 9. A recoil-mitigated projectile-firing device, the device comprising: a tube; a projectile-firing device positioned at least partially within the tube; and a brake assembly in frictional contact with the tube, the brake assembly comprising means for urging the brake assembly against the tube, and wherein when the device is fired, a force-time profile of the recoil is substantially constant. 10. A method of mitigating the recoil of a projectile-firing device, the method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the projectile-firing device at least partially within a tube; (b) positioning a brake assembly in frictional contact with the tube; and (c) urging the brake assembly against the tube, and wherein when the device is fired, a force-time profile of the recoil is substantially constant. 