An apparatus and method are provided for contacting at least two chemical species, comprising a support plate having a channel for receiving a mobile chemical species and a fiber, having a second chemical species immobilized thereon, disposed on the support plate. At least a portion of the fiber is exposed to the channel such that the mobile chemical species is capable of contacting the second chemical species. An apparatus and method for reading the fiber array, an apparatus and method for making the fiber array, and methods of using the fiber array of the present invention are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for contacting at least two chemical species, comprising: immobilizing a first chemical species on a fiber; placing said fiber on a support across a width of a channel formed in said support; and disposing a mobile second chemical species into said channel such that said second chemical species contacts said immobilized chemical species on said fiber. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a plurality of fibers and channels, wherein said immobilizing step comprises immobilizing a different polynucleotide on each of said fibers. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of moving said second chemical species along said channel. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said moving step includes the step of applying electro-osmotic force to said channel. 5. A method for analyzing the contact between at least two chemical species, comprising: immobilizing an immobilized chemical species on at least a first one of a plurality of optical fibers; placing said plurality of fibers on a support having a plurality of channels, where each fiber of said plurality of fibers is oriented across a width of one or more of said channels; disposing a mobile chemical species into at least a first one of said plurality of channels such that said mobile chemical species contacts at least said first one of a plurality of optical fibers; directing light to an end of said at least a first one of a plurality of optical fibers; and viewing the light emitted from said at least a first one of a plurality of optical fibers. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said directing step is accomplished by directing said light through a focusing lens. 7. A method for detecting the binding of two chemical species, comprising the steps of: contacting a first chemical species mobile within a channel with an second chemical species immobilized on a fiber oriented across a width of the channel; directing light at an end of said fiber; and detecting light emitted from binding occurring between said first chemical species and said second chemical species. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said detecting step comprises the steps of: collecting said light emitted from the binding to produce collected light; and converting said collected light into an electrical signal that is proportional to said collected light. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said detecting step comprises the step of detecting light emitted from said binding at a plurality of predetermined locations along said fiber. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising, after said contacting, gradually changing the temperature of the fiber over a predetermined temperature range such that the temperature of said fiber passes through an optimum temperature for binding of said first and second chemical species. 11. A method according to claim 8, further comprising verifying the chemical composition of said immobilized chemical species or said one or more mobile chemical species. 