A method and system for transferring a plurality of integrated circuit dies from a first surface to a second surface is described. Each hollow barrel of a plurality of hollow barrels is applied to a respective die residing on the first surface. The respective die is caused to move into each hollow barrel in parallel. These steps are repeated until each hollow barrel contains a stack of dies of a predetermined number. A die from each hollow barrel is deposited onto the second surface until the stack of dies contained by each hollow barrel is substantially depleted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a plurality of dies from a first surface to a second surface, comprising: (a) applying in parallel each hollow barrel of a plurality of hollow barrels to a respective die residing on the first surface; (b) causing the respective die to move into each hollow barrel in parallel; (c) repeating steps (a) and (b) until each hollow barrel contains a stack of dies of a predetermined number; and (d) depositing in parallel a die from each hollow barrel onto the second surface until the stack of dies contained by each hollow barrel is substantially depleted. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: applying a vacuum force to a first end of each hollow barrel to cause the respective die to move into a second end of each hollow barrel. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein step (d) comprises: modifying the vacuum force. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein step (a) comprises: applying the first end of each hollow barrel of the plurality of hollow barrels to the second surface in parallel to deposit the respective die from each hollow barrel to the second surface. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein step (a) comprises: applying the second end of each hollow barrel of the plurality of hollow barrels to the second surface in parallel to deposit the respective die from each hollow barrel to the second surface. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: using a gas pressure to cause the respective die to move into each hollow barrel. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein step (d) comprises: modifying the gas pressure. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: using a mechanical force to cause the respective die to move into each hollow barrel. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: using a chemical force to cause the respective die to move into each hollow barrel. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: using an electrostatic force to cause the respective die to move into each hollow barrel. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises: using an adhesive material to cause the respective die to move into each hollow barrel. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein step (d) comprises: allowing the die deposited from each hollow barrel to stick to the second surface. 13. A system for transferring a plurality of dies from a first surface to a second surface, comprising: a plurality of hollow barrels aligned to be substantially parallel, each hollow barrel of said plurality of hollow barrels being configured to contain a plurality of dies in a stack a vacuum device coupled to a first end of said each hollow barrel; and wherein a second end of said each hollow barrel is applied in parallel to a respective die residing on the first surface; wherein said vacuum device applies a vacuum force to said first end of said each hollow barrel to cause said respective die to move into said second end of said each hollow barrel in parallel; and wherein said vacuum force is modified and said each hollow barrel is applied to the second surface to deposit said respective die from said each hollow barrel onto the second surface in parallel. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the first end of said each hollow barrel is applied to the second surface to deposit said respective die from said each hollow barrel to the second surface in parallel. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the second end of said each hollow barrel is applied to the second surface to deposit said respective die from said each hollow barrel to the second surface in parallel. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein said respective die is one of a plurality of dies residing on the first surface that corresponds to said each hollow barrel; wherein said second end of said each hollow barrel is applied in parallel sequentially to each die of said corresponding plurality of dies while said vacuum force is applied to move said each die of said corresponding plurality of dies into the second end of said each hollow barrel to form a stack of dies in said each hollow barrel. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said each hollow barrel is applied to a plurality of target areas on the second surface in parallel to sequentially deposit each die of said corresponding plurality of dies on the second surface. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein the first surface is a scribed wafer. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the first surface is a support surface. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein the second surface is an intermediate surface. 21. The system of claim 13, wherein the second surface is a substrate. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the substrate includes a plurality of antenna substrates. 