A method is described for the production of optical components, particularly of crystalline base material, with elevated stability and an optically active three-dimensional shape, which is defined by its surfaces, of high fit accuracy, by shaping the base material into a blank with a desired three-dimensional shape, and applying a covering layer to the surface of the thus-formed three-dimensional shape and the fit accuracy is obtained by abrasion of the covering layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the production of optical components, particularly of crystalline base material, with elevated stability and an optically active three-dimensional shape of high fit accuracy defined by its surfaces due to shaping the base material into a blank with the desired three-dimensional shape, comprising applying a covering layer onto the surface of the thus-formed three-dimensional shape and the fit accuracy is obtained by abrading the covering layer, wherein said base material comprises a member selected from the group consisting of CaF.sub.2, BaF.sub.2, LiF, NaF, KF and combinations thereof. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said covering layer comprises a member selected from the group consisting of MgF.sub.2, Al.sub.2 O.sub.3, SiO.sub.2, pure or mixed, and a diamond-like carbon compound. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising tempering the blank prior to applying the covering layer and optionally, post-processing the blank once more for further production of the three-dimensional shape. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising processing the covering layer by mechanical abrasion, ion-beam abrasion and/or by laser abrasion. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising applying a reflection-reducing layer before and/or after the application of the covering layer. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said covering layer has a thickness of at least 0.5 .mu.m. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein said covering layer has a thickness of at least 0.2 .mu.m. 8. An optical element produced by the method of claim 1. 