A system and for automatic histoprocessing of organic tissue specimens using microwaves, two cavities and automatic fluid and specimen transfer between the two cavities.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for automatic histoprocessing of organic tissues specimens, comprising: at least a first cavity and a second cavity in which tissue specimens can be processed, a system to selectively transfer at least one fluid reagent from a storage container in and out of the first cavity, and a device for automatically transferring said tissue specimens from the first cavity to the second cavity. 2. A system according to claim 1, comprising a microwave generating device for applying microwave radiation to the inside of the first cavity, the first cavity being connected to the microwave generating unit. 3. A system according to claim 1, comprising at least one resistive heating element to which the second cavity is functionally connected. 4. A system according to claim 1, comprising means for applying a vacuum to at least one of the first cavity and the second cavity. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein the automatic transfer device is a robot device. 6. System according to claim 5, wherein the robot device is a robot arm having at least two degrees-of-freedom. 7. A method for processing tissue samples, the method comprising the following steps: inserting tissue samples to be processed into a microwave chamber, and without removing the tissue samples to be processed from the microwave chamber, sequentially pumping in and out of the microwave chamber at least two fluid reagents for processing the tissue samples, wherein microwave power is applied to the microwave chamber during the presence of at least one of the reagents in them microwave chamber in order to increase the temperature of the reagent present. 8. A method of histoprocessing tissues, comprising the following steps: First step: fixing tissue with either formalin or formalin substitute under microwave irradiation and magnetic stirring of said reagents, Second step: rinsing the tissue with alcohol at ambient temperature under normal pressure, Third step: dehydrating the tissue with one alcohol or a mixture of different alcohols under microwave irradiation and magnetic stirring, Fourth step: clearing under microwave irradiation and magnetic stirring of the reagents, Fifth step: evaporating the tissue under process without the presence of any reagents under programmable vacuum condition to eliminate excess amount of reagents both superficially and from within the tissue while avoiding complete drying of specimen, Sixth step: impregnating the tissue with wax under programmable vacuum and under magnetic stirring. 9. A method according to claim 8, comprising carrying out the third step and the fourth step by a simultaneous dehydration/clearing under microwave irradiation and stirring of reagents for temperature homogeneity with a mixture of ethanol plus isopropanol plus a long-chain hydrocarbon for applications with fatty or very fatty tissues. 10. A method according to claim 8, comprising carrying out the third step and the fourth step by a simultaneous dehydration/clearing with a mixture of ethanol plus isopropanol under microwave irradiation and magnetic stirring for temperature homogeneity for low fat or non fatty tissues. 11. A method according to claim 7, comprising reducing the pressure in the microwave chamber during the application of the microwave power in the evaporation stage. 12. A method according to claim 7, comprising pumping the fluid reagents from storage containers into the microwave chamber by applying a vacuum to the microwave chamber. 13. A method according to claim 7, comprising pumping the fluid reagents from the microwave chamber to storage containers by applying a vacuum to the storage containers. 14. A method according to claim 13, comprising transferring a fluid reagent from a first storage container to a second storage container by applying a vacuum to the microwave chamber in order to pump the reagent from the first storage container to the microwave chamber, and draining the reagent from the microwave chamber to the second storage container. 15. A method according to claim 7, comprising the further step of automatically transferring the specimen into a second cavity in which they are processed with an impregnation medium. 16. A method according to claim 15, comprising applying a vacuum to the second cavity during the processing of the sample with the impregnation medium. 17. A method according to claim 16, comprising applying the vacuum in increments. 18. A method according to claim 11, comprising carrying out at least one of the steps of fixation, alcohol rinsing, dehydration, clearing and vacuum drying out the specimens in the microwave chamber. 19. A method according to claim 7, comprising the step of magnetically stirring the fluid reagent in the microwave chamber during application of the microwave radiation and/or during the impregnation process in the second chamber. 20. A method according to claim 7, comprising histoprocessing organic pathological samples. 21. A method according to claim 12, comprising reducing the pressure in the microwave chamber during the application of the microwave power in the evaporation stage. 22. A method according to claim 8, comprising pumping the fluid reagents from storage containers into the microwave chamber by applying a vacuum to the microwave chamber. 23. A method according to claim 8, comprising pumping the fluid reagents from the microwave chamber to storage containers by applying a vacuum to the storage containers. 24. A method according to claim 8, comprising transferring a fluid reagent from a first storage container to a second storage container by applying a vacuum to the microwave chamber in order to pump the reagent from the first storage container to the microwave chamber, and draining the reagent from the microwave chamber to the second storage container. 25. A method according to claim 8, comprising the further step of automatically transferring the specimen into a second cavity in which they are processed with an impregnation medium. 26. A method according to claim 25, comprising applying a vacuum to the second cavity during the processing of the sample with the impregnation medium. 27. A method according to claim 26, comprising applying the vacuum in increments. 28. A method according to claim 8, comprising carrying out at least one of the steps of fixation, alcohol rinsing, dehydration, clearing and vacuum drying out the specimens in the microwave chamber. 29. A method according to claim 8, comprising the step of magnetically stirring the fluid reagent in the microwave chamber during application of the microwave radiation and/or during the impregnation process in the second chamber. 30. A method according to claim 8, comprising histoprocessing organic pathological samples. 