An actuator and control algorithm which provide an operator with the ability to intuitively and responsively maneuver heavy work-pieces with ease and precision. The structure of the apparatus may provide a hoist with a compliant sensing system to measure the weight of the payload. The compliant sensing system may result in smaller dead-bands than are realizable with traditional force sensing methods. At the command of the user, the control algorithm may switch between two distinct operational modes: float mode and manual mode. In float mode, the hoist actively counterbalances the weight of the load, allowing it to feel substantially weightless in the operator's hands. The operator can apply forces directly to the payload to accelerate it in the desired vertical direction. Because of the small dead-band realized with compliant sensing, the payload may be highly responsive to the operators force inputs. As a result, the payload may be intuitively maneuvered at very high speeds, as well as very low speeds. Alternately, the operator may choose to operate in manual mode. While in manual mode, the hoist operates like traditional lifting hoists, responding to velocity commands issued from a remotely controlled pendant.
Claims We claim: 1. A hoist comprising: a base; a motor; a gear reduction connected at an output of said motor; a drive shaft connected at an output of said gear reduction; a drive gear mounted on said drive shaft; an armature subassembly comprising a left armature and a right armature supported on said drive shaft with a left armature bearing and a right armature bearing; a spool shaft connecting said left armature and said right armature; one or more compression springs connected to said base and supporting said spool shaft with a supporting force; a spool gear which meshes with said drive gear and spins freely on said spool shaft; a spool fixed concentrically to said spool gear; a position transducer arranged to measure the deflection of said compression springs; a payload cable helically wound and terminated on said spool; a payload attached at the end of said payload cable; and a controller; wherein the compression springs compress in relation to the force on the payload; wherein the armature subassembly rotates around the drive shaft in relation to the force on the payload; wherein the hoist can provide a float mode in which the load feels substantially weightless to an operator physically lifting the load; and the controller provides a control signal to the motor in relation to the deflection of the compression springs as measured by the position transducer and a desired deflection. 2. The hoist of claim 1 wherein the supporting force of the compression springs is related to the force on the payload with the relation F_load=(R_spring-R_gear)/(R_gear+R_cable)*F_spring where F_load is the force on the payload; F_spring is the supporting force of the compression springs; R_spring is the distance from the drive shaft to said compression springs; R_gear is the radius of said drive gear; R_cable is the distance from said spool shaft to the cable exit point from the spool shaft. 