A remotely controllable system for positioning on a patient an observation and/or intervention device, including a frame to which the device is bound with a number of degrees of freedom; flexible connection means, each of which is arranged between the frame and a point attached to the patient's support or to the patient himself; remotely controlled means for modifying the length/tension of the binding means; and means for remotely observing the device behavior.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remotely controllable system for positioning on a patient an observation and/or intervention device including: a patient's support on which the patient resides during a diagnosis; a frame to which the device is bound with a number of degrees of freedom; a plurality of flexible connection means, each of which is arranged for flexibly connecting the frame and a point adapted to be attached to the patient's support or to the patient himself; connecting the frame to different connection points on the patient's support remotely controlled means for modifying the length/tension of the connection means; and means for remotely observing the device behavior, capable of controlling said remotely controlled means. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the flexible connection means is one of a cable, a thread or a strap. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein each of the flexible connection means is resilient. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the remotely controlled means include winder motors. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the remotely controlled means include artificial muscles. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the connection between the frame and the device is ensured by remotely controlled flexible connection means. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the device is an echographic probe, and said remote observation means further enable observation of the echographic image. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the device is an endoscope, and the remote observation means further enable observation of the endoscopic image. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the device is a needle holder, and the remote observation means enable observation of an image from X-rays, scanners, or MRIs. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the remotely controlled means for modifying the length/tension of the connection means is controlled by the patient by an audio link. 11. A system for remotely controlling position of a diagnostic device on a patient, the system comprising: a patient's support on which the patient resides during a diagnosis; a frame on which the diagnostic device is attached; a plurality of flexible connection means, each of the flexible connection means connecting the frame to different connection points on the patient's support; remotely controlled means for adjusting the length and tension of each of the flexible connection means, wherein changing the length and tension of each of the flexible connection means changes the position of the diagnostic device on a patient. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein adjusting the length and tension of the plurality of flexible connection means define direction of the diagnostic device as it moves from one position to another position on the patient. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the flexible connection means is one of a cable, a thread or a strap. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of flexible connection means consists of four flexible connections. 