There is provided an article of footwear having a thematical a toe box cover. The toe box cover may be removably coupleable to a primary shoe element in which the toe box cover has an ornamental sculptured work simulating the appearance of another and different article. A covering system for an article of footwear, includes a themed cover adapted to cover at least a forefoot portion of a foot of a wearer. The themed cover may include a flange provided for removably coupling the themed cover to the article of footwear and the flange is disposed on bottom periphery of the themed cover. Further, a plurality of interchangeable footcovers bears different three-dimensional ornamental simulations within a common theme relating to another article of manufacture. There is also provided a method of marketing an article of manufacture with an article of footwear, in which the article of manufacture is different from the article of footwear.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article of footwear, comprising: a primary footwear portion having a sole and at least a forefoot portion of an upper; and a toe box cover configured to be removably coupleable to the sole of the primary shoe portion so as to enclose the primary footwear at the forefoot portion, the toe box cover providing a resilient compression bias to the sole when coupled thereto, said toe box cover having an ornamental sculptural work simulating the appearance of another article; and a mating system including a first mating portion and a second mating portion, the first mating portion being attachable to the toe box cover and the second mating portion being attachable to the sole, wherein the first mating portion extends downwardly from the lower periphery of the toe box cover and the first mating includes a plurality of apertures configured to receive the second mating portion therein. 2. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the toe box cover simulates a facial feature of the another article. 3. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the another article comprises a robot. 4. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the sculptural work is formed at least in part by changes in thickness of the toe box cover. 5. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the sculptural work is formed at least in part by changes in contour of the toe box cover. 6. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the sculptural work is formed at least in part by apertures extending through a thickness in the toe box cover. 7. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the apertures simulate the eyes of the another article. 8. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the toe box cover includes at least a resilient outer layer and a layer of compressible foam. 9. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the sole further comprising a midsole and the second mating portion extends from the midsole. 10. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 9, wherein the second mating portion include at least a body portion extending generally normal to the midsole and the body portion having an interlock head at a free end. 11. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first mating portion comprises a stretchable material. 12. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a rearwardly disposed side panel of the upper having another ornamental sculptural work simulating a different part of said another article. 13. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 12, wherein the side panel further comprises a molded material. 14. An article of footwear, comprising: a primary footwear portion having a sole and at least a forefoot portion of an upper; and a toe box cover configured to be removably coupleable to the sole of the primary shoe portion so as to enclose the primary footwear at the forefoot portion, the toe box cover providing a resilient compression bias to the sole when coupled thereto, said toe box cover having an ornamental sculptural work simulating the appearance of, an outer body of an automobile. 15. A themed footwear system for an article of footwear, comprising: a plurality of interchangeable footcovers bearing different three-dimensional ornamental simulations within a common theme relating to another article of manufacture, the footcovers being configured to enclose a primary portion of the article of footwear therein; article of footwear having a sole and the footcovers being removable coupleable to the sole to thereby provide a resilient compression bias to the sole. 16. The footwear system in accordance with claim 15, wherein the primary portion comprises at least a forefoot portion of the article of footwear. 17. The footwear system in accordance with claim 16, wherein at least one of the interchangeable footcovers simulates a facial feature and said article of manufacture further comprises a toy figure. 18. The footwear system in accordance with claim 16, wherein at least one of the interchangeable footcovers simulates a nose and eyes of the article of manufacture. 19. The footwear system in accordance with claim 18, wherein at least one of the interchangeable footcovers simulates a portion of an automobile. 20. The footwear system in accordance with claim 15, wherein the interchangeable footcovers includes at least a resilient outer layer and an inner layer of compressible foam. 21. The footwear system in accordance with claim 20, wherein the ornamental simulation is formed at least in part by changes in thickness of the footcover. 22. The footwear system in accordance with claim 20, wherein the ornamental simulation is formed at least in part by changes in the topography of the footcover. 23. The footwear system in accordance with claim 20, wherein the ornamental simulations is formed at least in part by apertures extending through a thickness of at least one footcover. 24. A themed footwear system for an article of footwear, comprising: a plurality of interchangeable footcovers bearing different three-dimensional ornamental simulations within a common theme relating to another article of manufacture, the footcovers being configured to enclose a primary portion of the article of footwear comprising at least at forefoot portion therein; wherein the interchangeable footcovers include a sole engaging portion extending from a lower periphery, the sole engaging portion having a medial portion and a central portion between a lateral portion thereof, the medial portion and lateral portion having a plurality of apertures and the central portion being devoid of apertures; and a sole including a midsole and an outsole, the midsole including a plurality of projections extend therefrom for interlocking with the apertures in the medial portion and lateral portion of the sole engaging portion. 25. The footwear system in accordance with claim 24, the sole engaging portion having a medial grip portion and a lateral grip portion configured for enabling a user to fit the medial portion and lateral portion on to the plurality of projections. 26. The footwear system in according with claim 24, wherein the interchangeable footcovers comprise foam material. 27. An article of footwear, comprising: a sole having a midsole including a forefoot midsole periphery; a toe cover having a three dimensional ornamental simulation representative of the appearance of another article of manufacture, and the toe cover for being removably coupled to said forefoot midsole periphery and providing a resilient compression force to the forefoot midsole periphery. 28. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 27, wherein said toe cover is removable from said forefoot midsole periphery. 29. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 28, wherein said toe cover includes a flexible band portion disposed on a bottom periphery of said toe cover and said forefoot midsole periphery includes a plurality of projections extending therefrom, said band portion is configurable for removably attaching to said projections. 30. The article of footwear in accordance with claim 29, wherein said toe cover further includes a medial gripping element and a lateral gripping element for said wearer to grasp thereon, said medial gripping element and said lateral gripping element being disposed on a rearward portion of said bottom periphery of said toe cover. 