A cannula for use in transferring small volumes of fluid materials, such as in a parallel reaction process. The cannula comprises a long thin needle having various end (port) configurations, and an adapter for connecting the needle to a fluid line. The adapter may include the combination of a reservoir and transition, or simply a transition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transferring fluids using a cannula, comprising connecting the cannula to a robot transport system, operating the robot transport system to transport the cannula to a fluid transfer location, said transport involving moving said cannula along x, y and z axes, rotating the cannula to an angular orientation off vertical, and inserting the cannula while in said angled orientation into an angled cannula passage, and effecting transfer of said fluid while said cannula is in said angled cannula passage. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cannula is sized for holding 10 .mu.l-5000 .mu.l of fluid. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising advancing the cannula through a sealing mechanism in said cannula passage before effecting transfer of said fluid to prevent the leakage of fluid from the passage. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fluid transfer is effected at a pressure other than ambient pressure. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fluid transfer is effected at a pressure of at least about 15 psig. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fluid transfer is effected at a pressure of about 50-500 psig. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cannula passage is in fluid communication with a reaction vessel contained in a reactor. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising aspirating a sample of fluid material into said cannula at said fluid transfer location, operating said robot transfer system to transport said cannula to a sample analyzing device, and effecting transfer of fluid from the cannula to said sample analyzing device. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8 further comprising aspirating said fluid sample from a reactor vessel containing fluid reaction materials. 10. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the amount of fluid transferred is from about 5 .mu.l-500 ml. 11. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the amount of fluid transferred is from about 1 ml-500 ml. 12. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the amount of fluid transferred is from about 2 ml-25 ml. 