A shadow frame and framing system for semiconductor fabrication equipment comprising a rectangular frame having four edges, the edges forming an interior lip with a top surface and an bottom engagement surface; and a cross beam disposed between at least two edges of the frame, the cross beam having a top surface and a bottom engagement surface, the engagement surface of the cross beam configured to be flush with the engagement surface of the lip; wherein one or more of the engagement surfaces are configured to cover metal interconnect bonding areas on a carrier disposed below the frame. The shadow frame is particularly useful in plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) applications used to make active matrix liquid crystal displays (AMLCDs) and solar cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shadow framing system for a chamber in semiconductor manufacturing equipment comprising: a rectangular frame including a cross beam, the rectangular frame and cross beam having flush engagement surfaces configured to intimately contact a carrier disposed below the rectangular frame, and further configured to cover a metal interconnect area of the carrier; a susceptor disposed below the rectangular frame and configured to support the carrier against the rectangular frame, the susceptor including apertures, the apertures positioned below the engagement surfaces of the rectangular frame; and support elements including an engagement surface, the support elements configured to protrude through the apertures and contact a lower surface of the carrier at the engagement surface of the support elements, wherein at least one of the support elements is disposed along a periphery of the susceptor. 2. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein edges along the rectangular frame and cross beam have a trapezoidal shape configured to allow laminar flow of materials onto the carrier. 3. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the rectangular frame is constructed of anodized aluminum and the cross beam is constructed of a material selected from the group consisting of a ceramic and sapphire. 4. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the apertures are arranged about a periphery of the susceptor. 5. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the support elements are T-shaped structures. 6. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the cross beam divides an open area created between the edges of the rectangular frame into at least four open regions into which material can be deposited on the carrier. 7. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the carrier is a glass substrate configured to support a large panel active matrix liquid crystal display. 8. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the carrier is configured to support a plurality of solar cells constructed over the carrier. 9. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the susceptor is adapted to heat a substrate supported by the susceptor. 10. The shadow framing system of claim 1, wherein the apertures are positioned below the engagement surfaces of the cross beam. 11. A shadow framing system for a chamber in semiconductor manufacturing equipment comprising: a rectangular frame including at least one cross beam, the rectangular frame and the at least one cross beam having flush engagement surfaces configured to intimately contact a carrier disposed below the rectangular frame, and further configured to cover a metal interconnect area of the carrier, wherein the rectangular frame and the at least one cross beam define a plurality of open areas into which material can be deposited on the carrier; a susceptor disposed below the rectangular frame and configured to support the carrier against the rectangular frame, the susceptor including apertures, the apertures positioned below the engagement surfaces of the rectangular frame, wherein the susceptor is adapted to heat the carrier; and support elements including an engagement surface, the support elements configured to protrude through the apertures and contact a lower surface of the carrier at the engagement surface of the support elements, wherein at least one of the support elements is disposed along a periphery of the susceptor. 12. The shadow framing system of claim 11, wherein the apertures are arranged about a periphery of the susceptor. 13. The shadow framing system of claim 11, wherein the apertures are positioned below the engagement surface of the at least one cross beam. 14. A shadow framing system comprising: a rectangular frame including a cross beam, the rectangular frame and cross beam having flush engagement surfaces configure to intimately contact a carrier disposed below the rectangular frame, and further configured to cover a metal interconnect area of the carrier; a susceptor disposed below the rectangular frame and configured to support the carrier against the rectangular frame, the susceptor including apertures, the apertures positioned below the engagement surfaces of the rectangular frame; support elements including an engagement surface, the support elements configured to protrude through the apertures and contact a lower surface of the carrier at the engagement surface of the support elements, wherein at least one of the support elements is disposed along a periphery of the susceptor; a driver for retracting the susceptor below the support elements; an effector for placing a substrate on the support elements; a driver for raising the susceptor so that the susceptor contacts the substrate; and means for depositing a material layer on the substrate through the rectangular frame. 