A system, method and program are disclosed for automatically exchanging tape cartridges between a plurality of automated tape libraries arranged in close proximity. The automated cartridge exchange system translates a forward and reverse stroke in a first axis directed parallel to the sidewalls of two adjacent tape libraries to a radial movement directed to a second axis perpendicular to the first axis and into and out of the tape libraries (e.g., via a pass-through port in each library). Thus, the cartridge density of the overall library system is maximized by limiting the width of the main assembly of the automated cartridge exchange system and thereby minimizing the distance between the two adjacent libraries. Also, the automated cartridge exchange system can be blind-mated to the adjacent libraries and thus provide a hot-swappable (on-line), readily serviceable component that is not available from the existing approaches. Furthermore, a plurality of such automated cartridge exchange systems can be installed between adjacent automated tape libraries to provide the redundancy not available from the existing approaches.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated tape library system, comprising: a first tape library; a second tape library located adjacent to said first tape library; and an exchange unit for transporting at least one tape storage unit from said first tape library to said second tape library, said exchange unit arranged between said first tape library and said second tape library, said exchange unit comprising: a movable transport unit, said movable transport unit for transport of said at least one tape storage unit from said it tape library to said second tape library; a movable drive unit, said movable drive unit linked to said movable transport unit; and a direction translation unit coupled to said movable transport unit and said movable drive unit, said direction translation unit operable to translate a forward and reverse stroke of the movable transport unit in a first axis directed parallel to a sidewall of said first tape library and a sidewall of said second tape library to a radial movement of said movable transport unit directed toward and away from said sidewall of said first tape library or toward and away from said sidewall of said second tape library. 2. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said first tape library comprises an automated magnetic tape cartridge library. 3. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said at least one tape storage unit comprises a magazine. 4. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said movable transport unit comprises a magazine carriage. 5. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said movable drive unit comprises a drive carriage. 6. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said radial movement of said movable transport unit comprises a movement guided by a radial track. 7. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said sidewall of said first tape library includes a first pass-through port, and said sidewall of said second tape library includes a second pass-through port. 8. The automated tape library system of claim 1, wherein said direction translation unit comprises: a drive motor coupled to a drive carriage; a linkage coupling said drive carriage to a magazine carriage; a right radial track for guiding movement of said magazine carriage toward or away from said second tape library; and a left radial track for guiding movement of said magazine carriage toward or away from said first tape library. 9. A method for exchanging cartridges between a first tape library and a second tape library located adjacent to said first tape library, comprising the steps of: activating a forward or reverse stroke of a movable transport unit in a first axis directed parallel to a sidewall of said first tape library and a sidewall of said second tape library using a direction translation unit coupled to the movable transport unit, wherein the direction translation unit is operable to translate the forward and reverse stroke of the movable transport unit in a first axis directed parallel to the sidewall of the first tape library and the sidewall of the second tape library to a radial movement of the movable transport unit directed toward and away from the sidewall of the first tape library or toward and away from the sidewall of the second tape library; and translating said forward and reverse stroke to a radial movement of the movable transport unit directed toward and away from said sidewall of said first tape library or toward and away from said sidewall of said second tape library. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said first tape library comprises an automated magnetic tape cartridge library. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising a movable drive unit coupled to said movable transport unit, said movable drive unit performing said forward and reverse stroke. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein said movable transport unit comprises a magazine carriage. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein said movable drive unit comprises a drive carriage. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein said radial movement of said movable transport unit comprises a movement guided by a radial track. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein said sidewall of said first tape library includes a first pass-through port, and said sidewall of said second tape library includes a second pass-through port. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the direction translation unit comprises: a drive motor coupled to said movable drive unit; a linkage coupling said movable drive unit to said movable transport unit; a right radial truck for guiding movement of said movable transport unit toward or away from said second tape library; and a left radial track for guiding movement of said movable transport unit toward or away from said first tape library. 17. A computer program product in a computer readable medium for use in exchanging cartridges between a first automated tape library and a second automated tape library located adjacent to said first automated tape library, the computer program product comprising: first instructions for activating a forward or reverse stroke of a movable transport unit in a first axis directed parallel to a sidewall of said first automated tape library and a sidewall of said second automated tape library using a direction translation unit coupled to the movable transport unit, wherein the direction translation unit is operable to translate the forward and reverse stroke of the movable transport unit in a first axis directed parallel to the sidewall of the first tape unit directed toward and away from the sidewall of the first tape library or toward and a from the sidewall of the second tape library; and second instructions for translating said forward and reverse stroke to a radial movement of the movable transport unit directed toward and away from said sidewall of said first automated tape library or toward and away from said sidewall of mid second automated tape library. 18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said first tape library comprises an automated magnetic tape cartridge library. 19. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising a movable drive unit coupled to said movable transport unit, said movable drive unit performing said forward and reverse stroke. 20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said movable transport unit comprises a magazine carriage. 