A process for accommodating, improving or transmuting random static and dynamic human functions to an object is provided. A device is selected which includes a proximal member and a distal member which articulate relative to one another at an interface. Energy is transmitted through the interface with a predetermined and variable efficacy. The interface is configured to permit static force to have perpendicular and parallel components relative to a primary plane of the interface and to permit a dynamic force to have a parallel component relative to the primary plane. An inertia at the interface is affected in terms of positive or negative affinity between the members and a proximity of the members to one another at the interface such that either the static or dynamic forces attract the members to one another at the interface, such that either the static or dynamic forces attract the members toward one another at the interface urging a contact whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is resisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is assisted. Alternatively, the static and dynamic forces repel the members from one another at the interface urging a separation whereby a tendency for a motion of one relative to another at the interface is assisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is resisted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for accommodating, improving, imitating or transmuting random static and dynamic human functions relative to an object, comprising the steps of: selecting a device comprising a proximal member and a distal member which articulate relative to one another at an interface wherein energy is transmitted through the interface with a predetermined and variable efficacy, the interface being configured to permit a static force to have perpendicular and parallel components relative to a primary plane of the interface and to permit a dynamic force to have a parallel component relative to the primary plane, whereupon an inertia at the interface is affected in terms of a positive or negative affinity between the members and a proximity of the members to one another at the interface, such that either the static and dynamic forces attract the members toward one another at the interface urging a contact whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is resisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is assisted, or the static and dynamic forces repel the members from one another at the interface urging a separation whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is assisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is resisted, the device having a portion associable with the object; associating the device with the object; selecting an activity to accomplish the purpose of accommodating, improving, imitating or transmuting random static and dynamic human functions relative to the object; and providing a system of forces to the device which interact to bring about the selected activity; whereby the device utilizes the system of forces provided to create a governable degree of inertia along the interface so arranged in predetermined degrees of freedom to accommodate, improve, imitate or transmute a myriad of random human functions including a static posture and a dynamic movement, resulting from a position, a translation, a rotation, or a revolution singularly at the interface or via a combination thereof. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the proximal and distal members are connected by an attachment member which limits separation and allows for displacement at the interface. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the device is articulated so as to allow smooth and free motions with variable degrees of freedom including redundant motions. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein the device includes a detachable component having a detachable member. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the associating step includes the step of determining whether the object is associated continuously or intermittently with the device. 6. The process of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a human body-part. 7. The process of claim 6, wherein the associating step includes the step of associating the human body-part with the proximal member. 8. The process of claim 6, including the step of providing intrinsic forces from the human body-part and extrinsic forces from the device to provide the system of forces which interact to bring about the selected activity. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein the associable portion is capable of providing a net extrinsic force from the proximal member to the human body-part and a net intrinsic force from the human body-part to the proximal member. 10. The process of claim 8, wherein the associable portion comprises a manipulable surface or a conformable clothing capable of transmitting forces such as a handle, glove, shoe, sock, helmet, strap, or orthotic. 11. The process of claim 6, wherein the associable portion of the device effectively unweights the human body-part so as to counter the affect of gravity on the human body-part. 12. The process of claim 6, wherein the associable portion of the device conforms to the human body-part. 13. The process of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a mechanical part. 14. The process of claim 7, wherein the associating step includes the step of associating the mechanical part with the distal member. 15. The process of claim 1, wherein the associable portion of the device is configured to associate with both a human body-part and a mechanical part. 16. The process of claim 1, including the step of creating a net resultant force from the system of forces which creates motion of one member relative to another member. 17. The process of claim 16, wherein the system of forces applied at the interface act to resist movement of the proximal member relative to the distal member. 18. The process of claim 16, wherein the system of forces applied at the interface act to assist movement-of the proximal member relative to the distal member. 19. The process of claim 16, wherein the system of forces are created such that the motion of the object is initially assisted by the device and over time the system of forces reduces the degree of extrinsic force contribution as intrinsic force is offered and increased until the activity is performable without the assistance of extrinsic forces which then may be weaned completely providing the opportunity to subsequently enlist resistive extrinsic forces to increasingly antagonize the activity despite continued achievement of the activity in efforts to improve the function of the object. 20. The process of claim 1, wherein the proximal and distal members each have a face adjoining the interface. 21. The process of claim 20, wherein the face of either the proximal or distal member forms a track. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the track includes gates for directing motion of the face of the other member. 23. The process of claim 22, wherein the gates are subject to governance. 24. The process of claim 20, wherein the face of either the proximal or distal member forms a cam surface. 25. The process of claim 1, wherein the interface comprises a plurality of interfaces arranged in either parallel, series, or a combination thereof within the device. 26. The process of claim 1, wherein the device comprises a plurality of devices which are associable with a plurality of objects. 27. The process of claim 1, including the step of introducing static magnetic flux density at the interface to affect the inertia at the interface. 28. The process of claim 27, wherein the magnetic flux is introduced by electromagnets. 29. The process of claim 1, wherein the dynamic force is created perpendicular to the primary plane of the interface. 30. The process of claim 1, wherein the energy transmitted at the interface of the proximal and distal members is variably adjusted using a barrier. 31. The process of claim 30, wherein the barrier includes the use of a bladder having fluid characteristics which affect the system of forces. 32. The process of claim 30, wherein the barrier includes a rolling member which allows linear displacement as well as angular displacement of one member relative to another member. 33. The process of claim 32, wherein the rolling member is engageable by a force providing source. 34. The process of claim 1, including the step of providing a plurality of magnetic flux density sources to create a holding or motive force at the interface. 35. The process of claim 1, including the step of providing a plurality of motor sources to contribute to a net force at the interface. 36. The process of claim 1, including the step of providing a plurality of electromechanical fiber sources to contribute to a net force at the interface. 37. The process of claim 1, including the step of providing a plurality of hydraulic sources to create a net force at the interface. 38. The process of claim 1, wherein the energy transmitted across the interface of the device comprises energetic radiation, conduction, convection or, vibration to affect a facilitation of the activity. 39. The process of claim 38, wherein the energy transmission is transmitted either to or from the object. 40. The process of claim 38, including the step of subjecting the energy transmission to an operable governance process. 41. The process of claim 40, wherein the operable governance process is created manually or electrically using a remote control and determined by a computer. 42. The process of claim 40, wherein the governance process involves the steps of creating, modifying and eliminating data. 43. The process of claim 42, wherein the modifying data step includes the steps of directing, magnifying, and distributing data. 44. The process of claim 40, wherein the governance process involves the steps of discerning, comparing, deciding, executing and repeating. 45. The process of claim 40, wherein the governance process affects the configuration and design of the interface and the forces applied thereto. 46. The process of claim 40, wherein the governance process affects a change in the direction of the applied force. 47. The process of claim 40, wherein the governance process affects the magnitude of the applied force. 48. The process of claim 40, wherein the governance process affects a change in the distribution of the applied forces both temporally and spatially. 49. The process of claim 1, including the step of sensing physical data related to the device and the object. 50. The process of claim 49, including the step of selecting a goal relating to the activity. 51. The process of claim 50, including the step of creating a governing force comprising either an equilibrant or resultant force which affects a shift in the balance of the intrinsic and extrinsic system of forces. 52. The process of claim 51, including the step of governing the governing force based upon considerations of the sensed physical data and the goal in order to direct the system of forces to facilitate accomplishment of the goal. 53. The process of claim 52, including the steps of evaluating the sensed physical data and repeating the governing process continually. 54. The process of claim 53, wherein the evaluating step is conducted using a microprocessor or computer. 55. The process of claim 49, wherein the sensing step includes the step of providing an accelerometer associated with the device. 56. The process of claim 49, wherein the sensing step includes the step of providing a gyroscope associated with the device. 57. The process of claim 1, including the step of evaluating pain tolerance. 58. The process of claim 57, including the step of altering ergonomic variables including force applied at the interface and rate of motion when the pain tolerance has been exceeded. 59. The process of claim 57, including the step of altering ergonomic variables including force applied at the interface and rate of motion when the pain tolerance has not been exceeded and the goal has been met. 60. A process for accommodating positioning and change in position for any given human body-part for the purpose of physically improving the human body-part function, comprising the steps of: selecting a human body-part; selecting a device comprising a proximal member and a distal member which articulate relative to one another at an interface wherein energy is transmitted through the interface with a predetermined and variable efficacy, the interface being configured to permit a static force to have perpendicular and parallel components relative to a primary plane of the interface and to permit a dynamic force to have a parallel component relative to the primary plane, whereupon an inertia at the interface is affected in terms of a positive or negative affinity between the members and a proximity of the members to one another at the interface, such that either the static and dynamic forces attract the members toward one another at the interface urging a contact whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is resisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is assisted, or the static and dynamic forces repel the members from one another at the interface urging a separation whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is assisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is resisted, the proximal member being associable with the selected body part wherein the associable portion of the proximal member is capable of providing a net extrinsic force from the proximal member to the human body-part and a net intrinsic force from the human body-part to the proximal member; associating the device with the selected human body part; selecting an activity for the selected human body part; providing a system of forces to the device which interact to bring about the selected activity; whereby the device utilizes the system of forces provided to create a governable degree of inertia along the interface so arranged in predetermined degrees of freedom to accommodate and improve a myriad of random human functions including a static posture and a dynamic movement, resulting from a position, a translation, a rotation, or a revolution singularly at the interface or via a combination thereof. 61. The process of claim 60, wherein the proximal and distal members are connected by an attachment member which limits separation and allows for displacement at the interface. 62. The process of claim 60, wherein the device is articulated so as to allow smooth and free motions with variable degrees of freedom including redundant motions. 63. The process of claim 60, wherein the device includes a detachable component having a detachable member. 64. The process of claim 60, wherein the associating step includes the step of determining whether the human body-part is associated continuously or intermittently with the device. 65. The process of claim 60, wherein the associable portion of the proximal member effectively unweights the human body-part so as to counter the affect of gravity on the human body-part. 66. The process of claim 60, wherein the associable portion of the proximal member conforms to the human body-part. 67. The process of claim 66, wherein the associable portion is capable of providing a net extrinsic force from the proximal member to the human body-part and a net intrinsic force from the human body-part to the proximal member. 68. The process of claim 66, wherein the associable portion comprises a manipulable surface or a conformable clothing capable of transmitting forces such as a handle, glove, shoe, sock, helmet, strap, or orthotic. 69. The process of claim 60, including the step of creating a net resultant force from the system of forces which creates motion of one member relative to another member. 70. The process of claim 69, wherein the system of forces applied at the interface act to resist movement of the proximal member relative to the distal member. 71. The process of claim 69, wherein the system of forces applied at the interface act to assist movement of the proximal member relative to the distal member. 72. The process of claim 69, wherein the system of forces are created such that the motion of the object is initially assisted by the device and over time the system of forces reduces the degree of extrinsic force contribution as intrinsic force is offered and increased until the activity is performable without the assistance of extrinsic forces which then may be weaned completely providing the opportunity to subsequently enlist resistive extrinsic forces to increasingly antagonize the activity despite continued achievement of the activity in efforts to improve the function of the object. 73. The process of claim 60, wherein the proximal and distal members each have a face adjoining the interface. 74. The process of claim 73, wherein the face of either the proximal or distal member forms a track. 75. The process of claim 74, wherein the track includes gates for directing motion of the face of the other member. 76. The process of claim 75, wherein the gates are subject to governance. 77. The process of claim 73, wherein the face of either the proximal or distal member forms a cam surface. 78. The process of claim 60, wherein the interface comprises a plurality of interfaces arranged in either parallel, series, or a combination thereof within the device. 79. The process of claim 60, wherein the device comprises a plurality of devices which are associable with a plurality of objects. 80. The process of claim 60, including the step of introducing static magnetic flux density at the interface to affect the inertia at the interface. 81. The process of claim 80, wherein the magnetic flux is introduced by electromagnets. 82. The process of claim 60, wherein the dynamic force is created perpendicular to the primary plane of the interface. 83. The process of claim 60, wherein the energy transmitted at the interface of the proximal and distal members is variably adjusted using a barrier. 84. The process of claim 83, wherein the barrier includes the use of a bladder having fluid characteristics which affect the system of forces. 85. The process of claim 83, wherein the barrier includes a rolling member which allows linear displacement as well as angular displacement of one member relative to another member. 86. The process of claim 85, wherein the rolling member is engageable by a force providing source. 87. The process of claim 60, including the step of providing a plurality of magnetic flux density sources to create a holding or motive force at the interface. 88. The process of claim 60, including the step of providing a plurality of motor sources to contribute to a net force at the interface. 89. The process of claim 60, including the step of providing a plurality of electromechanical fiber sources to contribute to a net force at the interface. 90. The process of claim 60, including the step of providing a plurality of hydraulic sources to create a net force at the interface. 91. The process of claim 60, wherein the energy transmitted across the interface of the device comprises energetic radiation, conduction, convection or, vibration to affect a facilitation of the activity. 92. The process of claim 91, wherein the energy transmission is transmitted either to or from the object. 93. The process of claim 91, including the step of subjecting the energy transmission to an operable governance process. 94. The process of claim 93, wherein the operable governance process is created manually or electrically using a remote control and determined by a computer. 95. The process of claim 93, wherein the governance process involves the steps of creating, modifying and eliminating data. 96. The process of claim 95, wherein the modifying data step includes the steps of directing, magnifying, and distributing data. 97. The process of claim 93, wherein the governance process involves the steps of discerning, comparing, deciding, executing and repeating. 98. The process of claim 93, wherein the governance process affects the configuration and design of the interface and the forces applied thereto. 99. The process of claim 93, wherein the governance process affects a change in the direction of the applied force. 100. The process of claim 93, wherein the governance process affects the magnitude of the applied force. 101. The process of claim 93, wherein the governance process affects a change in the distribution of the applied forces both temporally and spatially. 102. The process of claim 60, including the step of sensing physical data related to the device and the object. 103. The process of claim 102, including the step of selecting a goal relating to the activity. 104. The process of claim 102, wherein the sensing step includes the step of providing an accelerometer associated with the device. 105. The process of claim 102, wherein the sensing step includes the step of providing a gyroscope associated with the device. 106. The process of claim 104, including the step of creating a governing force comprising either an equilibrant or resultant force which affects a shift in the balance of the intrinsic and extrinsic system of forces. 107. The process of claim 106, including the step of governing the governing force based upon considerations of the sensed physical data and the goal in order to direct the system of forces to facilitate accomplishment of the goal. 108. The process of claim 107, including the steps of evaluating the sensed physical data and repeating the governing process continually. 109. The process of claim 108, wherein the evaluating step is conducted using a microprocessor or computer. 110. The process of claim 60, including the step of evaluating pain tolerance. 111. The process of claim 110, including the step of altering ergonomic variables including force applied at the interface and rate of motion when the pain tolerance has been exceeded. 112. The process of claim 110, including the step of altering ergonomic variables including force applied at the interface and rate of motion when the pain tolerance has not been exceeded and the goal has been met. 113. A process for accommodating positioning and change in position for any given human body-part for the purpose of physically improving the human body-part function, comprising the steps of: selecting a human body-part; selecting a device comprising a proximal member and a distal member which articulate relative to one another at an interface wherein energy is transmitted through the interface with a predetermined and variable efficacy, the interface being configured to permit a static force to have perpendicular and parallel components relative to a primary plane of the interface and to permit a dynamic force to have a parallel component relative to the primary plane, whereupon an inertia at the interface is affected in terms of a positive or negative affinity between the members and a proximity of the members to one another at the interface, such that either the static and dynamic forces attract the members toward one another at the interface urging a contact whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is resisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is assisted, or the static and dynamic forces repel the members from one another at the interface urging a separation whereby a tendency for a motion of one member relative to another at the interface is assisted and a tendency for the interface between the members to remain in a statically opposed position is resisted, the proximal member being associable with the selected body part wherein the associable portion of the proximal member is conformed to the selected human body-part and capable of providing a net extrinsic force from the proximal member to the human body-part and a net intrinsic force from the human body-part to the proximal member; determining whether the human body-part is associated continuously or intermittently with the device; associating the device with the selected human body-part; selecting an activity for the selected human body-part; selecting a goal relating the selected activity; providing intrinsic forces from the human body-part and extrinsic forces from the device to provide a system of forces which interact to bring about the selected activity; sensing physical data from the device and the human body-part; evaluating pain tolerance; and monitoring the sensed physical data and considering the selected goal in order to direct the system of forces to facilitate accomplishment of the selected goal; wherein the system of forces includes magnetic flux introduced at the interface; whereby the device utilizes the system of forces provided to create a governable degree of inertia along the interface so arranged in predetermined degrees of freedom to accommodate and improve a myriad of random human functions including a static posture and a dynamic movement, resulting from a position, a translation, a rotation, or a revolution singularly at the interface or via a combination thereof. 114. The process of claim 113, wherein the proximal and distal members are connected by an attachment member which limits separation and allows for displacement at the interface. 115. The process of claim 113, wherein the device is articulated so as to allow smooth and free motions with variable degrees of freedom including redundant motions. 116. The process of claim 113, wherein the device includes a detachable component having a detachable member. 117. The process of claim 113, wherein the associable portion of the proximal member effectively unweights the human body-part so as to counter the affect of gravity on the human body-part. 118. The process of claim 113, wherein the associable portion comprises a manipulable surface or a conformable clothing capable of transmitting forces such as a handle, glove, shoe, sock, helmet, strap, or orthotic. 119. The process of claim 113, including the step of creating a net resultant force from the system of forces which creates motion of one member relative to another member. 120. The process of claim 119, wherein the system of forces applied at the interface act to resist movement of the proximal member relative to the distal member. 121. The process of claim 119, wherein the system of forces applied at the interface act to assist movement of the proximal member relative to the distal member. 122. The process of claim 119, wherein the system of forces are created such that the motion of the object is initially assisted by the device and over time the system of forces reduces the degree of extrinsic force contribution as intrinsic force is offered and increased until the activity is performable without the assistance of extrinsic forces which then may be weaned completely providing the opportunity to subsequently enlist resistive extrinsic forces to increasingly antagonize the activity despite continued achievement of the activity in efforts to improve the function of the object. 123. The process of claim 113, wherein the proximal and distal members each have a face adjoining the interface. 124. The process of claim 123, wherein the face of either the proximal or distal member forms a track. 125. The process of claim 124, wherein the track includes gates for directing motion of the face of the other member. 126. The process of claim 125, wherein the gates are subject to governance. 127. The process of claim 126, wherein the face of either the proximal or distal member forms a cam surface. 128. The process of claim 113, wherein the interface comprises a plurality of interfaces arranged in either parallel, series, or a combination thereof within the device. 129. The process of claim 113, wherein the device comprises a plurality of devices which are associable with a plurality of objects. 130. The process of claim 113, including the step of introducing static magnetic flux density at the interface to affect the inertia at the interface. 131. The process of claim 130, wherein the magnetic flux is introduced by electromagnets. 132. The process of claim 113, wherein the dynamic force is created perpendicular to the primary plane of the interface. 133. The process of claim 113, wherein the energy transmitted at the interface of the proximal and distal members is variably adjusted using a barrier. 134. The process of claim 133, wherein the barrier includes the use of a bladder having fluid characteristics which affect the system of forces. 135. The process of claim 133, wherein the barrier includes a rolling member which allows linear displacement as well as angular displacement of one member relative to another member. 136. The process of claim 135, wherein the rolling member is engageable by a force providing source. 137. The process of claim 113, including the step of providing a plurality of magnetic flux density sources to create a holding or motive force at the interface. 138. The process of claim 113, including the step of providing a plurality of motor sources to contribute to a net force at the interface. 139. The process of claim 113, including the step of providing a plurality of electromechanical fiber sources to contribute to a net force at the interface. 140. The process of claim 113, including the step of providing a plurality of hydraulic sources to create a net force at the interface. 141. The process of claim 113, wherein the energy transmitted across the interface of the device comprises energetic radiation, conduction, convection or, vibration to affect a facilitation of the activity. 142. The process of claim 141, wherein the energy transmission is transmitted either to or from the object. 143. The process of claim 142, including the step of subjecting the energy transmission to an operable governance process. 144. The process of claim 143, wherein the operable governance process is created manually or electrically using a remote control and determined by a computer. 145. The process of claim 143, wherein the governance process involves the steps of creating, modifying and eliminating data. 146. The process of claim 145, wherein the modifying data step includes the steps of directing, magnifying, and distributing data. 147. The process of claim 143, wherein the governance process involves the steps of discerning, comparing, deciding, executing and repeating. 148. The process of claim 143, wherein the governance process affects the configuration and design of the interface and the forces applied thereto. 149. The process of claim 143, wherein the governance process affects a change in the direction of the applied force. 150. The process of claim 143, wherein the governance process affects the magnitude of the applied force. 151. The process of claim 143, wherein the governance process affects a change in the distribution of the applied forces both temporally and spatially. 152. The process of claim 113, wherein the sensing step includes the step of providing an accelerometer associated with the device. 153. The process of claim 113, wherein the sensing step includes the step of providing a gyroscope associated with the device. 154. The process of claim 113, including the step of creating a governing force comprising either an equilibrant or resultant force which affects a shift in the balance of the intrinsic and extrinsic system of forces. 155. The process of claim 154, including the steps of evaluating the sensed physical data and repeating the governing process continually. 156. The process of claim 155, wherein the evaluating step is conducted using a microprocessor or computer. 157. The process of claim 113, including the step of altering ergonomic variables including force applied at the interface and rate of motion when the pain tolerance has been exceeded. 158. The process of claim 113, including the step of altering ergonomic variables including force applied at the interface and rate of motion when the pain tolerance has not been exceeded and the goal has been met. 