A component for a substrate processing chamber has a structure composed of aluminum oxide. The structure has a roughened surface having a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches. A plasma sprayed ceramic coating of aluminum oxide is deposited on the roughened surface of the structure. The component may be a dome shaped ceiling of the chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing chamber component comprising: (a) a structure composed of aluminum oxide and having a roughened surface with a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches; and (b) a plasma sprayed ceramic coating deposited on the roughened surface of the structure, the plasma sprayed ceramic coating composed of aluminum oxide, wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.1. 2. A component according to claim 1 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a textured exposed surface having a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches. 3. A component according to claim 1 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%. 4. A component according to claim 1 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a thickness of from about 1 mil to about 8 mils. 5. A component according to claim 1 wherein the component comprises a domed enclosure wall. 6. A component according to claim 5 wherein the domed enclosure wall comprises at least a portion of a ceiling. 7. A component according to claim 1 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating is adapted to be exposed to an energized gas in an etching chamber or a chemical vapor deposition chamber. 8. A substrate processing chamber comprising the component of claim 1, the substrate processing chamber comprising a substrate support, a process gas supply, a plasma generator to energize the process gas, and a gas exhaust. 9. A domed enclosure wall for a substrate processing chamber, the domed enclosure wall comprising: (a) a structure composed of aluminum oxide, the structure having a roughened surface with a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches; and (b) a plasma sprayed ceramic coating deposited on the surface of the structure, the plasma sprayed ceramic coating being composed of aluminum oxide and having a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%, wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.1. 10. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the structure comprises at least a portion of a chamber ceiling. 