Robotic rack loading apparatus and method include features and loading steps that provide essentially damage free rack loading of automotive panel assemblies into a specially designed rack. The rack includes dunnage elements containing sets of slots with lead-in upper edge angles and sensing holes associated with the slots. The robot carries a modified end of arm tool including a sensor to sense the location of a sensing hole to position a panel for loading into a corresponding set of slots. Another sensor preferably senses objects or structure in the rack to position the tool in a preload position. A compliant device allows lateral and longitudinal compliance of the end of arm tool to allow assemblies to be funneled into position in the slots without encountering damaging stress. A programmed robot can thus automatically load panel assemblies into the rack without damage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot rack loading apparatus for temporary rack storage of vehicular panel assemblies, the apparatus comprising: a rack for storage of multiple panel assemblies, the rack including side and bottom plastic dunnage molded to a supporting back that is coupled to the rack, the side and bottom dunnage having slots for receiving individual assemblies; a tool mountable on a robot arm and adapted for sequentially carrying individual assemblies for loading into the rack; and a lockable compliant support between the robot arm and the tool, the lockable compliant support having a compliant mode and a locked mode, wherein the tool moves relative to the robot arm in the compliant mode in response to self-adjustment of the individual assemblies' positions during placement of the individual assemblies into the slots. 2. A robot rack loading apparatus comprising: a rack that includes a plurality of plastic dunnage members, each having a slot for receiving a vehicular panel assembly, wherein each of said dunnage members is formed of plastic and molded to a supporting back; a tool mountable on a robot arm that carries said vehicular panel assembly for loading into said rack; and a lockable compliant support between said robot arm and said tool, said lockable compliant support having a compliant mode and a locked mode, wherein said tool moves in at least two directions relative to said robot arm in said compliant mode in response to self-adjustment of a vehicular panel assembly's position during placement of said vehicular panel assembly into said slot. 