This invention relates to a method and apparatus for handling parts ejected from an injection molding machine (10). More particularly, in one aspect, the invention is directed to a system (20) whereby data molded into the ejected part is used to provide useful feedback for the molding process. In another aspect, molded parts formed in a multiple molding die (12) are ejected from the die in a manner to maintain the relative sequential or matrix organization so that useful feedback information can be generated. This system is particularly useful with subsequent machine vision and inspection applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for process control in an injection molding and inspection system, the injection molding and inspection system being operative to mold components using a die having mold cavities and inspect the components using an inspection unit, the method comprising steps of: conveying the components ejected from the die to the inspection unit; determining if flaws are present in any of the components; determining from which mold cavity an inspected component has been ejected by maintaining the components in a selected order from ejection to inspection by transforming an x by y matrix of the components ejected from the die into an (x times y) by 1 matrix of components; and, selectively controlling the injection molding and inspection system based on the determining steps. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the transforming comprises transporting the components through tubes. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selectively controlling comprises shutting down at least one mold cavity. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the selectively controlling comprises correlating the flaws determined with a mold cavity. 5. A system for process control, the system being associated with devices operative to mold components using a die having mold cavities, the system comprising: means for conveying the components ejected from the die to an inspection unit; electro-optical means for determining if flaws are present in any of the components; means for determining from which mold cavity an inspected component has been ejected by maintaining the components in a selected order from ejection to inspection using tubes, a matrix plate having apertures connected to first ends of the tubes, and a linear pocket plate connected to a second ends of the tubes; and, means for selectively controlling the injection molding and inspection system based on the determining steps. 6. The system as set forth in claim 5 wherein the tubes have a reduced friction surface to facilitate transport of the components therethrough. 7. The system as set forth in claim 5 further comprising a jet assist device to facilitate transport of the components through the tubes. 8. The system as set forth in claim 5 further comprising sensors operative to detect at least one of whether the components have cleared the mold cavities and whether the components have been transported through the tubes. 9. The system as set forth in claim 5 wherein the die includes mold cavities arranged to produce an x by y matrix of the components and the means for determining from which mold cavity an inspected component has been ejected by maintaining components in a selected order comprises a means for transforming the x by y matrix into an (x times y) by 1 matrix of components. 10. The system as set forth in claim 9 wherein the means for transforming comprises the tubes. 11. The system as set forth in claim 9 wherein the means for transforming comprises an x by y matrix plate connected to the first ends of the tubes. 12. The system as set forth in claim 9 wherein the means for transforming comprises an (x times y) by 1 linear pocket plate connected to the second ends of the tubes. 13. The system as set forth in claim 5 wherein the components comprise preforms. 14. A system for process control, the system being associated with devices operative to mold components using a die having mold cavities, the system comprising: a plurality of tubes through which the components ejected from the die are transported; a matrix plate with apertures corresponding to the mold cavities and having first ends of the tubes disposed therein to receive the ejected components, the matrix plate apertures forming an x by y matrix; a linear pocket plate with apertures having second ends of the tubes disposed therein through which the ejected components exit the tubes, the linear pocket plate apertures forming an (x times y) by 1 matrix; a conveyance device operative to convey the components to an inspection unit after exiting the tubes; the inspection unit operative to detect flaws in the components; and, means for selectively controlling the system based on detection of flaws in the components and correspondence of flawed components to mold cavities. 15. The system as set forth in claim 14 wherein the tubes have a reduced friction surface to facilitate transport of the components therethrough. 16. The system as set forth in claim 14 further comprising a jet assist device to facilitate transport of the components through the tubes. 17. The system as set forth in claim 14 further comprising sensors operative to detect at least one of whether the components have cleared the mold cavities and whether the components have been transported through the tubes. 18. The system as set forth in claim 14 wherein the components comprise preforms. 