A high-speed wafer-processing apparatus and method that employs a vacuum chamber having at least two wafer transport robots and a process station. The vacuum chamber interfaces with a number of single-wafer load locks that are loaded and unloaded one wafer at a time by a robot in atmosphere. Four load locks are sized to allow for a gentle vacuum cycling of each wafer without significant pumpdown delays. The robots in the vacuum chamber move wafers sequentially from one of the load locks to a process station for processing and then to another one of the load locks for unloading by the atmospheric robot.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for processing wafers, the method comprising the steps of: providing a first pair of load locks and a second pair of load locks, each of the load locks having a first portion opening to atmosphere and a second portion opening to vacuum in a vacuum chamber, said vacuum chamber including a first vacuum robot and a second vacuum robot for handling the wafers in vacuum; controlling the first and second pairs of load locks in a desired sequence to cycle the wafers from atmosphere to vacuum and back to atmosphere; having the first vacuum robot in the vacuum chamber remove a first wafer from a first load lock of the first pair of load locks, transport said first wafer to a process station for wafer processing in the vacuum chamber and loading the first wafer into a second load lock of the first pair when processing of the first wafer is complete; and having the second vacuum robot in the vacuum chamber remove a second wafer from a first load lock of the second pair of load locks, transport said second wafer to a process station for wafer processing in the vacuum chamber and loading the second of the wafers into a second load lock of the second pair of load locks when processing of the second wafer in the vacuum chamber is complete, wherein said first and second vacuum robots are controlled to reduce the time between processing of successive wafers. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of having a first atmospheric robot in atmosphere load and unload each of the wafers from the first and second pair of load locks and transporting each of the wafers between the first and second load locks and a docking station in atmosphere. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of having the first atmospheric robot to distribute the wafers from the docking station in atmosphere among the first and second load locks forming the first pair of load locks and the first and second load locks forming the second pair of load locks in a substantially equal manner to provide a substantially continuous flow of wafers through the vacuum chamber. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of having the first vacuum robot remove a first wafer comprises the steps of: placing the first wafer on a first holding station after removing the first wafer from the first of the load locks forming the first pair of load locks; removing a third wafer from the process station located in the vacuum chamber; and loading the third wafer into the first load lock of the first pair of load locks. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of having the first vacuum robot remove a first wafer further comprises the steps of: removing the first wafer from the first holding station; and loading the first wafer onto the process station for said processing. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the steps of having the first vacuum robot and second vacuum robots remove wafers comprises the steps of: instructing the first vacuum robot to remove the first wafer from the first load lock of the first pair of load locks and place the first wafer onto the first holding station in the vacuum chamber; instructing the first vacuum robot to remove a third wafer from the process station in the vacuum chamber and place the third wafer into the first load lock of the first pair of load locks; instructing the second vacuum robot to remove a second wafer from a second holding station in the vacuum chamber and place the second wafer onto the process station in the vacuum chamber for said processing; and at completion of processing of the second wafer on the process station, instructing the second vacuum robot to remove the second wafer from the process station in the vacuum chamber and load the second wafer into the second load lock of the second pair of load locks, and instructing the first vacuum robot to remove the first wafer from the first holding station and place it onto the process station in the vacuum chamber for processing. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the holding stations comprises a wafer orientation device capable of orienting wafers to a desired orientation. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the holding stations comprises a wafer aligner capable of aligning wafers to a desired alignment. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein said docking station is adapted to hold a carrier for said wafers comprising a front opening unified pod (FOUP). 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of controlling the first pair of load locks comprises the steps of: closing an atmospheric valve associated with the first load lock of the first pair of load locks to pump out the atmosphere in the first load lock; and opening a vacuum valve associated with the first load lock of the first pair of load locks to bring the first load lock to vacuum. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the load locks is capable of holding only one wafer. 12. A method for processing wafers, the method comprising the steps of: providing a first pair of load locks, and a second pair of load locks, each of said load locks having a first portion opening to atmosphere and a second portion opening to vacuum in a vacuum chamber, said vacuum chamber including a first vacuum robot and a second vacuum robot for handling the wafers in vacuum, said first and second vacuum robots operating independently, and whereby a first wafer in said one of the load locks in said first load lock is subjected to the following steps: removing said first wafer from a first load lock of said first pair of load locks with said first vacuum robot while said load lock is open to vacuum; using said first vacuum robot to place said first wafer at a first holding station for orienting said first wafer for processing; using said first vacuum robot to remove said first wafer from said first holding station and placing said first wafer at a process station where said first wafer is processed; using said first vacuum robot to remove said processed first wafer from said process station and placing said first wafer into said second load lock of said first pair of load locks while said second load lock is open to vacuum; venting said second load lock containing said first wafer to atmosphere; opening said second load lock and removing said first wafer in atmosphere; placing a third wafer in said second load lock in atmosphere; reducing the pressure in said second load lock to match the pressure in said vacuum chamber so that said second load lock can be opened to vacuum; and removing said third wafer from said second load lock, starting the processing cycle for said third wafer; and whereby said second vacuum robot carries out the same steps as the first vacuum robot with a second wafer except that said second wafer is initially in said one of the second pair of load locks, said second vacuum robot places said second wafer on a second holding station, and after processing, said second wafer is placed by said second vacuum robot in the other of said second pair of load locks rather than the load lock from which it originally entered the vacuum chamber. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of, unloading the first wafer from a front opening unified pod (FOUP) mounted in a docking station in atmosphere; and loading the first wafer into said first load lock while said load lock is open at atmosphere. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of, pumping down said first load lock with the first wafer therein to bring the first wafer to vacuum; and opening the second portion of said first load lock for processing of the first wafer, wherein the steps of pumping down and opening the second portion occurs in a cyclical order across each of the load locks. 15. A method for processing wafers, the method comprising the steps of a) providing first, second, third and fourth load locks, each of said load locks having a first portion opening to atmosphere and a second portion opening to vacuum in a vacuum chamber, said vacuum chamber including first and second vacuum robots for handling the wafers in vacuum, a process station, and a first and second transfer station for preprocessing the wafers, said first and second vacuum robots operating independently, and the first vacuum robot handling wafers from the first and second load locks and the second vacuum robot handling wafers from the third and fourth load locks; b) roughing down the first load lock with a first wafer therein to start a processing cycle for the first of the wafers; c) removing said first wafer from the first load lock at vacuum using the first vacuum robot and placing said first wafer onto said first transfer station for preprocessing; d) loading the first load lock with a second wafer from the process station using the first vacuum robot and venting the first load lock to atmosphere to end a processing cycle for the second wafer; e) roughing down the second load lock with a third wafer therein to start a processing cycle for the third wafer; f) removing the first wafer from the first transfer station using the first vacuum robot and placing the first wafer onto the process station for processing; g) removing the third wafer from the second load lock at vacuum using the first vacuum robot and placing the third wafer onto said first transfer station for preprocessing; h) removing the first wafer from the process station using the first vacuum robot and loading the second load lock open at vacuum with the first wafer for venting to atmosphere to end the processing cycle for the first wafer; i) removing the second wafer from the first transfer station using the first vacuum robot and placing the second wafer onto the process station for processing; and j) carrying out steps b through i using the third and fourth load locks, the second vacuum robot, the second transfer station, and the process station to concurrently process the wafers, said process station alternately processing wafers provided from the first vacuum robot and the second vacuum robot. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of, loading each of the load locks at atmosphere with the wafers using an atmospheric robot. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of, instructing the atmospheric robot to distribute the wafers from a selected docking station amongst the four load locks in a substantially equal manner to provide a substantially continuous flow of wafers to the vacuum chamber. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of loading the selected docking station with a front opening unified pod (FOUP) holding the wafers for processing. 19. A system for processing workpieces on a process station in vacuum, said system comprising, a vacuum chamber maintained at high vacuum and containing the process station for processing the workpieces, a first transfer station for holding a first of the workpieces until the process station is in a ready state, a second transfer station for holding a second of the workpieces until the process station is in a ready state, a first vacuum robot for handling the first of the workpieces in the vacuum chamber and a second vacuum robot for handling the second of the workpieces in the vacuum chamber; and at least four load locks each having a first portion interfacing with the vacuum chamber for introducing the workpieces into the vacuum chamber for processing on the process station; wherein said first and second vacuum robots each act independently and each transports the workpieces from a load lock to a transfer station to the process station and back to a different load lock and control means for controlling each of the first and second vacuum robots to successively and continuously handle the work pieces introduced from each of the load locks, the first vacuum robot sequencing a first of the wafers from a first of the load locks to the process station via the first transfer station and at completion of processing to a second of the load locks for return to a carrier in atmosphere, the second vacuum robot sequencing a second of the wafers from a third of the load locks to the process station via the second transfer station and at completion of processing to a fourth of the load locks for return to the carrier in atmosphere. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a docking station in atmosphere to receive and hold a carrier for the workpieces; and an atmospheric robot operating in atmospheric pressure to transport the workpieces between the carrier docked in the docking station and each of the plurality of load locks. 21. The system of claim 20, further comprising environmental control means for pumping and venting each of the load locks. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said control means further controls said environmental control means and one or more valves associated with each of the load locks to pump down and vent each of said load locks in a predetermined sequence. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the control means controls a sequential movement of the workpiece from the carrier in the docking station at atmospheric pressure to loading of the workpiece into the first of the load locks by the atmospheric robot, receiving of the workpiece into the vacuum chamber by the first vacuum robot, processing of the workpiece on the process station, loading of the workpiece after completion of processing into the second of the load locks by the first vacuum robot, and loading of the workpiece into the carrier from the second of the load locks by the atmospheric robot. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the carrier comprises a front opening unified pod (FOUP). 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the control means controls the sequential movement of the workpieces including orientation of the workpieces during a time the workpieces are at the first and second transfer stations. 26. The system of claim 21, wherein the carrier comprises a cassette. 27. The system of claim 19, further comprising vacuum control means for maintaining high vacuum in the vacuum chamber containing the process station. 28. The system of claim 19, wherein at least one of the transfer stations comprises means for detecting and correcting an orientation of the workpieces. 29. The system of claim 19, wherein at least one of the transfer stations comprises means for detecting and correcting an alignment of the workpieces. 30. The system of claim 19, wherein the process station comprises an electrostatic chuck for holding the workpiece during processing. 31. The system of claim 19, wherein each of the load locks is sized to hold only a single workpiece. 