The present invention pertains to processing system use for instruction and simulated training. Observers evaluate the movements of user controllable images making interactive, personal, idiosyncratic, simulated movements. The invention includes the use of individual hand held devices, personal display appliances, personal computers and other processing systems communicating displays of user controllable images to other processing systems over local area and wide area networks and by means of a variety of interfaces, networks, servers and/or intraprocessing system means. Instruction and simulated training of observers is accomplished through viewing and evaluating user controllable image movements including, without limitation, individual drill, cooperation and opposition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for simulated training for an observer to evaluate a user, comprising: a processing system having a processor displayable user controllable image for performing interactive, personal and idiosyncratic simulated movements, communicated to another processing system; a memory for storing said processor displayable user controllable image controlled by said user to perform a sequence of movements; a display for displaying said user controllable image for performing interactive, personal and idiosyncratic simulated movements; a first input for receiving first input signals from said user to control said user controllable image for performing said simulated movements; a second input for receiving second input signals from said observer evaluating said user controlling said user controllable image for performing said simulated movements; and an output for sending output signals related to said controllable image movements from said memory to said display; wherein said user controllable image is generated to make said simulated movements controlled by said first input signals from said first input from said user without requiring said user to make corresponding physical movements; a record of said user controllable image movements is recorded in said memory such that said record is modified to represent said movements as controlled by said first input signals from said fist input; a record of said observer's evaluations of said user controllable image movements is recorded in said memory; and said apparatus further comprises a communication means for sending and receiving said first input signals and said output signals to and from said other processing system such that said observer can record in said memory said observer's evaluation of said user performing said simulated movements by using said user controllable image to interact with another user controllable image from said other processing system displayed on a display of said other processing system. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said communication means comprises at least one of a modem, a universal serial bus, parallel port, Ethernet, optical fiber and wireless interfaces. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said communication means comprises at least one of dedicated and switched networks. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said communication means comprises at least one of point-to-point, local area and wide area networks. 