A method of cleaning using an insonified, pressurized liquid to cleanse and then wash off particulates. The liquid is used to focus and direct the acoustical energy while enabling the trapping of the partials being cleaned and then used to wash off the partials. The acoustical frequency and power is described as optimized to be below the energy level to cause cavitation at the surface of the part being cleaned. The manufacturing process of loading, cleaning and unloading is also described. In another embodiment, a small amount of cavitation is acceptable if the cavitation is below a threshold in which shock waves occur.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning one or more surfaces of an object, the method comprising: placing an object to be cleaned on a conveyor comprising at least two belts, wherein the object includes a front surface, a back surface, a first lateral edge and a second lateral edge, so that a first of the two belts is in frictional contact with a portion of the front surface of the object and a second of the two belt is in frictional contact with a portion of the back surface of the object while simultaneously exposing at least a portion of the first lateral edge and the second lateral edge for cleaning; spraying a liquid through at least one jet onto at least one surface of at least one object to be cleaned; and insonifying the liquid, with a focusing acoustic transducer, as it is being sprayed, producing longitudinal and shear waves which propagate into the object itself with an acoustic power divided by an area (acoustic power/area), which is a function of an amount of electric power applied to the focusing acoustic transducer at a given frequency to result in the liquid with an insonified power density without substantial cavitation occurring on a surface of an object being cleaned. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the liquid being sprayed is insonified at a frequency equal to 1 MHz. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the liquid being sprayed is insonified at a frequency greater than 1 MHz. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprises: moving the object in a direction substantially opposite relative to a direction of the spray so as that any particulates cleaned from the at least one surface are cleaned in a direction opposite the direction in which the object is moving. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprises: moving the jet in a direction substantially opposite to a direction of the spray so as that any particulates cleaned from the at least one surface are cleaned in a direction of the spray. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of spraying a liquid includes spraying a liquid at an oblique angle relative to the at least one surface of an object to be cleaned. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of spraying a liquid spray includes spraying a liquid which is de-ionized water. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of insonifying the liquid includes producing an acoustical wave imparted onto the surface of the one or more objects being cleaned in a directions away from the focusing acoustic transducer. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises at least one spacer between the first belt and the second belt to maintain a predefined separation distance between the belts. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of spraying a liquid includes spraying a liquid onto at least one surface of at least one object which it made from ceramic. 11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the step of spraying a liquid includes spraying a liquid onto at least one surface of at least one object which is made from alumina/TiC. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of spraying a liquid includes spraying a liquid onto at least one surface of at least one object which is a hard disk drive head. 13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of placing the first and second belts in motion by applying force from a plurality of spring-loaded wheels. 14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: moving the object in substantially the same relative direction as the spray so as that any particulates cleaned from the at least one surface are cleaned in a direction in which the object is moving. 15. An apparatus for cleaning objects using insonified liquids the apparatus comprising: a carrier that moves one or more objects along a processing assembly line for cleaning, the carrier comprising at least two belts, wherein each object includes a front surface, a back surface, a first lateral edge and a second lateral edge, so that a first of the two belt is in frictional contact with a portion of the front surface of the object and a second of the two belts is in frictional contact with a portion of the back surface of the object while simultaneously exposing at least a portion of the first lateral edge and the second lateral edge for cleaning; and a focusing acoustic transducer with at least one jet for spraying a liquid onto at least one of the lateral edges of the objects to be cleaned, wherein the liquid is insonified while it is being sprayed and the focusing acoustic transducer provides an acoustic power divided by an area (acoustic power/area) that is a function of an amount of electric power applied to the focusing acoustic transducer at a given frequency to result in the liquid with an insonified power density without substantial cavitation occurring on the at least one lateral edge of the object being cleaned. 16. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the focusing acoustic transducer is operated at a frequency greater than or equal to 1 MHz. 17. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the object is made from ceramic. 18. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the object is made from alumina/TiC. 19. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the object is a hard disk drive head (HDDH). 20. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the object is a hard disk drive head (HDDH) with a plurality of lateral edges, and wherein the carrier is configured to be rotatable so at least four lateral edges are cleaned by the liquid being sprayed from the jet. 21. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the focusing acoustic transducer is rotatably mounted so as to vary at least one of a longitudinal component and a shear wave component of on acoustic wave produced by the focusing acoustic transducer. 22. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, wherein the focusing acoustic transducer is mounted on a robotic aim to permit a direction that the jet for spraying a liquid onto the surface of the one or more objects to be adjusted relative to the surface of the one or more objects. 23. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, further comprising: at least one spacer provided between the first belt and the second belt, the spacer for maintaining a predefined separation distance between the belts. 24. The apparatus for cleaning objects according to claim 15, further comprising: a plurality of spring-loaded rollers in physical communication with at least one of the first belt and the second belt, the rollers applying a displacing force to the at least one belt. 