Methods are provided for low temperature, rapid baking to remove impurities from a semiconductor surface prior to in-situ deposition. Advantageously, a short, low temperature process consumes very little of the thermal budget, such that the process is suitable for advanced, high density circuits with shallow junctions. Furthermore, throughput is greatly improved by the low temperature bake, particularly in combination with low temperature plasma cleaning and low temperature wafer loading prior to the bake, and deposition after the bake at temperatures lower than conventional epitaxial deposition. The process enables epitaxial deposition of silicon-containing layers over semiconductor surfaces, particularly enabling epitaxial deposition over a silicon germanium base layer. By use of a low-temperature bake, the silicon germanium base layer can be cleaned to facilitate further epitaxial deposition without relaxing the strained crystal structure of the silicon germanium.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for growing an epitaxial silicon-containing layer on a silicon-germanium layer, the method comprising: inserting the silicon substrate with a silicon-germanium layer into a first reaction chamber and onto a susceptor housed within the chamber; subjecting the substrate to a bake; and epitaxially forming a silicon-containing layer on top of the silicon-germanium layer, wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises delivering a greater ratio of power to an upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and a lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the susceptor temperature. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the greater ratio of power is greater than 25% higher than the neutral ratio. 3. A method of treating a semiconductor substrate having an exposed semiconductor region subject to oxidation, comprising: loading the substrate onto a susceptor in a chemical vapor deposition reaction chamber at less than 550.degree. C.; subjecting the substrate to a bake in a reducing environment for less than 45 seconds; stabilizing the substrate temperature after the bake; and depositing a layer by chemical vapor deposition directly over the semiconductor region after stabilizing the temperature; wherein subjecting the substrate to a bake comprises delivering a greater ratio of power to an upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and a lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the susceptor temperature. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the greater ratio of power is greater than 25% higher than the neutral ratio. 