Laser processing methods, systems and apparatus having a super-modulating power supply (6) or pumping subsystem (5) and high beam quality (i.e., brightness) are disclosed. The methods, systems and apparatus have significant benefits, improved operation characteristics and material processing capability over currently available methods, systems and apparatus. In at least one embodiment, the beam quality of a high power solid state laser (2) is improved in the presence of thermal lensing. High power laser cutting, scribing, and welding results are improved with a combination of modulation and high beam quality while providing for improved processing speeds.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for laser processing a workpiece using an optically pumped solid state laser apparatus having a rated CW output power of about 100 W or more, the method comprising: modulating an optical pump to directly generate a modulated laser output beam having peak power greater than the rated CW output power, the pump being controllable with a time varying electrical signal so as to provide average output power up to the rated CW power; limiting at least one of diameter of the output beam and full angle beam divergence of the output beam to produce a beam quality of about 100 mm-mrad or better; focusing the output beam; and irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the focused output beam to modify a physical property of the workpiece. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rated CW output power is up to about 4 KW. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam has a frequency less than about 1.5 KHz. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam has a frequency in a range of about 500 Hz 1.5 KHz. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam is periodic. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the output beam is approximately a square-wave or a sine-wave. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the peak power of the output beam is up to about 250% of the rated CW output power. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processing comprises cutting a non-metallic workpiece. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises a metal and wherein the processing comprises scribing. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the laser apparatus is pumped by a lamp, and wherein the step of modulating includes applying an AC signal across the lamp. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solid state laser apparatus comprises a rod, and wherein the method further comprises transmitting a beam within a resonator through an aperture positioned within the resonator, the aperture being positioned immediately adjacent to the rod so that the beam quality is stabilized in the presence of a thermal lens effect. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the modulated laser output beam is in the form of an envelope comprising first and second bursts of pulses within first and second envelope portions, respectively. 13. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of irradiating results in by-products which substantially shield the focused output beam, whereby power density at the workpiece is attenuated, the shielded output beam being reduced in a subsequent time interval, the method further comprising: preselecting at least one of a modulation frequency and a duty cycle based on a time interval corresponding to a reduction in output beam shielding. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the modulated output beam comprises: (a) a high power time interval wherein the peak power is greater than the rated CW power, and (b) a low power time interval wherein the peak power is less than the peak power during the high power time interval, wherein the step of irradiating irradiates the workpiece during the high power time interval and when shielding is reduced, whereby workpiece processing is improved relative to operation at the rated CW power. 15. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a diameter of the focused output beam at the workpiece is in the range of about 0.05 mm to 1 mm. 16. A system for laser processing a workpiece, the system having a solid state laser apparatus with a rated CW output power, the system comprising: a solid state resonator comprising at least one solid state laser medium, at least one reflector, and at least one output coupler; a pump and a super-modulating power supply for modulating the pump so that the pump pumps the at least one solid state laser medium to generate a modulated laser output beam having peak power greater than the rated CW output power; an aperture for limiting at least one of a diameter of the output beam and full-angle divergence of the output beam to produce a beam quality better than about 100 mm-mrad; and an optical system to focus the output beam and irradiate the workpiece. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the laser apparatus comprises at least one YAG element and a lamp for pumping the at least one YAG element, and wherein the power supply is an AC power supply. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the laser apparatus comprises at least one YAG element and a diode array for pumping the at least one YAG element, and wherein the power supply comprises a diode-based pumping system. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein the solid state laser medium comprises a rod and an aperture for controlling the beam quality, the aperture being located immediately adjacent the rod. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the laser medium comprises a solid state laser amplifier element and a diode array for pumping the laser amplifier element and wherein the power supply comprises a diode-based pumping system. 21. A laser apparatus comprising: a laser resonator including at least one laser rod; and a laser rod tube fitted to an end of the at least one rod wherein the tube defines an aperture which controls beam quality of a laser beam generated by the apparatus and wherein the aperture is located immediately adjacent the at least one rod wherein a ratio of cross-sectional areas between the at least one rod and the aperture is approximately 36/25. 22. A laser apparatus comprising: a laser resonator including at least one laser rod; and a laser rod tube fitted to an end of the at least one rod wherein the tube defines an aperture which controls beam quality of a laser beam generated by the apparatus and wherein the aperture is located immediately adjacent the at least one rod wherein the aperture is about 3 mm from an end of the at least one rod. 23. A high speed method of cutting a semiconductor workpiece with a laser, the workpiece having a brittle characteristic and being susceptible to cracking when cut with a high energy laser beam, the method comprising: generating a modulated laser output beam having a frequency in the range of about 500 Hz to 1500 Hz, a maximum peak output power of about 1600 W over a focused spot having a size of about 0.05 mm to 0.3 mm, and a beam quality about 100 mm-mrad or better over the focused spot; and irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the spot during relative motion of the workpiece and the spot whereby cutting speed and edge quality of the cut workpiece is improved and undesirable microcracking of the cut workpiece is avoided. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the laser has a rated CW power and the maximum peak output power exceeds the rated CW power. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein the workpiece is made of a silicon material having a thickness of about 0.5 mm. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein the peak output power is in the range of about 200 W 400 W and the beam quality is about 32 mm-mrad or better. 27. The method of claim 23 wherein the cutting speed is greater than about 2 meters/minute. 28. A semiconductor device made by the cutting method of claim 23. 29. In a high power, solid state, laser-based processing system for welding, cutting, scribing, and the like, a workpiece, the method comprising: generating a modulated solid state laser output beam having at least one of a predetermined modulation frequency in a range of .theta. about 1 to about 1.5 KHz and duty cycle; focusing the laser output beam; irradiating a surface of the workpiece with the focused output beam to modify a physical property of the workpiece, wherein the step of irradiating results in by-products which substantially shield the focused output beam, whereby power density of the focused output beam at the workpiece is attenuated, wherein the shielded beam is reduced in a subsequent time interval and wherein the method further comprises preselecting at least one of the predetermined modulation frequency and the duty cycle based on a time interval corresponding to a reduction of shielding. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the modulated output beam comprises: (a) a high power time interval wherein the peak power is greater than a rated CW power, and (b) a low power time interval wherein the peak power is less than the peak power during the high power time interval, and wherein the step of irradiating irradiates the workpiece during the high power time interval and when shielding is reduced, whereby workpiece processing is improved relative to operation at the rated CW power. 31. A solid state laser system for carrying out the method of claim 23. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein the system includes a super-modulating power supply. 33. A solid state laser system for carrying out the method of claim 29. 34. The system of claim 33 wherein the system includes a super-modulating power supply. 