The invention provides texture mapping techniques that facilitate interactive painting of a three-dimensional virtual surface by a user in object space, without requiring global parameterization. The texture mapping techniques feature rendering texture for a given virtual object using a plurality of composite textures, each formed by blending collapsible texture layers. Texture coordinates in texture space are derived using information determined at the time of surface mesh generation. The invention features dynamic texture allocation and deallocation, allowing a user to interactively modify the shape of a painted, three-dimensional model. Finally, the invention features an architecture for combined graphical rendering and haptic rendering of a virtual object, allowing a user to experience force feedback during the painting of the object in object space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of interactively representing application by a user of at least one brush stroke directly onto a virtual object in object space, the method comprising the steps of: (a) allocating a plurality of texture elements in two dimensional texture space for a plurality of jacks of a virtual object; (b) graphically rendering the allocated texture in real time as a user applies at least one brush stroke onto the virtual object as represented in object space, wherein the rendering step comprises creating at least one blended texture that is at least temporarily bound to a graphics application during the rendering; and (c) updating at least one of the blended textures according to the at least one brush stroke applied by the user, wherein the method further comprises: (i) using an index corresponding to each of a plurality of jacks of the virtual object to identify texture elements to which surface elements of the virtual object are mapped; or (ii) allocating texture in the texture space for at least one newly-created jack of the virtual object following an object modification; and (iii) blending a set of texture layers corresponding to a first of a plurality of texture regions in the texture space and binding the blended texture to the graphics application during rendering of the first texture region. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises at least two of: (i) using an index corresponding to each of a plurality of jacks of the virtual object to identify texture elements to which surface elements of the virtual object are mapped; (ii) allocating texture in the texture space for at least one newly-created jack of the virtual object following an object modification; and (iii) blending a set of texture layers corresponding to a first of a plurality of texture regions in the texture space and binding the blended texture to the graphics application during rendering of the first texture region. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: (i) using an index corresponding to each of a plurality of jacks of the virtual object to identify texture elements to which surface elements of the virtual object are mapped; (ii) allocating texture in the texture space for at least one newly-created jack of the virtual object following an object modification; and (iii) blending a set of texture layers corresponding to a first of a plurality of texture regions in the texture space and binding the blended texture to the graphics application during rendering of the first texture region. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one brush stroke comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of a paint stroke, an erase stroke, a pencil stroke, a pen stroke, a line application, a character application, and a text application. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: (d) haptically rendering the virtual object in real time as the user applies the at least one brush stroke onto the virtual object. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of: (e) determining force corresponding to a position of a haptic interface device held by the user as the user applies the at least one brush stroke onto the virtual object. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of: (f) providing the force to the user through the haptic interface device as the user applies the at least one brush stroke onto the virtual object. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein step (d) is performed at a substantially faster rate than step (b). 9. The method of claim 5, wherein step (d) is performed within a range from about 700 Hz to about 1500 Hz and wherein step (b) is performed within a range from about 5 Hz to about 150 Hz. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein step (d) is performed at about 1000 Hz and wherein step (b) is performed at up to about 40 Hz. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein step (b) and step (d) are performed by different threads. 