An amusement device has a body, wherein the body has features, at least one motor for powering the device and at least some of the features, and an information receiving structure for receiving information from an information carrying item that is separate or discrete from the amusement device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transforming interactive amusement device comprising: (a) a body; (b) at least two transport elements moveably connected to the body; (c) at least two arms moveably connected to the body; (d) a motor associated with the body, the motor operably coupled to the at least two transport elements; (e) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being configured to command the motor to perform an action; (f) a key receiving device associated with the body, the key receiving device configured to receive a keying device which actuates data transfer to the microprocessor, wherein the data enables a function of the device; (g) a swipe card reader configured to read a swipe card, the swipe card reader is associated with the body and the swipe card reader is operably coupled to the microprocessor; (h) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver configured to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (i) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; and (j) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver; wherein (k) the device transforms into at least two different forms. 2. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the keying device is an electromechanical keying device. 3. An interactive amusement system comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor associated with the body; (c) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor being configured to command the motor to perform an action; (d) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver configured to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (e) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; (f) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver; (g) a key receiving device associated with the body, the key receiving device configured to actuate the microprocessor when a keying device is inserted into the key receiving device; and (h) a swipe card reader configured to read a swipe card, whereby a function of the microprocessor is modified. 4. The interactive amusement device of claim 3 further comprising at least two transport elements, the microprocessor being configured to control speed of travel by controlling the at least two transport elements. 5. The interactive amusement device of claim 3 further comprising armor, the microprocessor being configured to control positioning of the armor. 6. The interactive amusement device of claim 3 further comprising a weapon, the microprocessor being configured to control at least one function of the weapon. 7. The interactive amusement device of claim 3, wherein the keying device is a flag having a base, wherein the base is configured to be received in an engagement slot on the body. 8. The interactive amusement device of claim 7, wherein the base and engagement slot each have a mating shape so as to prevent a second flag having an incompatible shape from being received in the engagement slot. 9. The interactive amusement device of claim 3, wherein the keying device is an attachment having a peg, wherein the peg is configured to be received in an engagement slot on the body. 10. The interactive amusement device of claim 9, wherein the peg and the engagement slot each have a mating shape so as to prevent an attachment having an incompatible shape from being received in the engagement slot. 11. An amusement apparatus comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor associated with the body; (c) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor configured to actuate the motor to propel an action; (d) a shape-specific key receiving device, the shape-specific key receiving device configured to be actuable by a shape-specific key whereby the microprocessor is actuated; and (e) a swipe card reader adapted to receive enhancement data from a swipe card and to transmit the enhancement data to the microprocessor after said swipe card has been swiped, wherein the enhancement data is adapted to provide an enhanced function of the apparatus, and wherein said swipe card reader of said apparatus is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said swipe card while the apparatus is in operation results in said enhanced function being further enhanced. 12. The amusement apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: (a) a wireless receiver associated with the body, the wireless receiver configured to receive a wireless communication and transmit the wireless communication to the microprocessor; (b) a unit wireless transmitter associated with the body, the unit wireless transmitter operably coupled with the microprocessor and capable of wireless communication with a second interactive amusement device; and (c) a remote wireless transmitter operably coupled by wireless communication with the wireless receiver. 13. The amusement apparatus of claim 11, further comprising at least two moveable elements moveably coupled to the body, each of the at least two moveable elements moveably coupled by one of at least two couplings. 14. The amusement apparatus of claim 13 wherein the body and the at least two moveable elements are reconfigurable whereby the apparatus is transformable. 15. The amusement apparatus of claim 14 wherein the at least two couplings are configured to allow the body and the at least two moveable elements to be reconfigurable. 16. The amusement apparatus of claim 11, wherein said function which is to be enhanced comprises one or more of mobility, speed and defense. 17. The amusement apparatus of claim 16, wherein said further enhanced function comprises increased speed of the device. 18. The amusement apparatus of claim 16, wherein said further enhanced function comprises increased mobility of the device. 19. The amusement apparatus of claim 16, wherein said further enhanced function comprises increased defense of the device. 20. An amusement apparatus comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor associated with the body; (c) a microprocessor operably coupled to the motor, the microprocessor configured to actuate the motor to propel an action; (d) a shape-specific key receiving device, the shape-specific key receiving device configured to be actuable by a shape-specific key whereby the microprocessor is actuated; and (e) a swipe card reader adapted to receive enhancement data from one or more different swipe cards and to transmit the enhancement data from each of said one or more different swipe cards to the microprocessor to enhance one or more functions of said apparatus, said one or more functions enhanced will depend upon which of said one or more swipe cards has been swiped through said swipe card reader, and wherein said swipe card reader of said apparatus is also adapted such that one or more additional swipes of said one or more different swipe cards while the apparatus is in operation results in said one or more functions enhanced being further enhanced. 21. The amusement apparatus of claim 20, wherein said apparatus is a portable toy. 