A simplified perform handling device including an end-effector arranged to substantially conform, in use, to an end portion of a preform and to seal therewith. The device also includes an aligning jig to align the preform with the end-effector. The device provides improved preform thermal and angular orientation characteristics when used in a transfer apparatus of an injection blow molding system, or simplified end-of-arm tool for two-stage preform production. The device may also be operated to condition a preform retained on the injection mold core plate assembly of an injection mold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end-of-arm tool for handling at least one preform, the end-of-arm tool comprising: a tooling base; and at least one aligning coupler retained on the tooling base and configured to releasably retain the at least one preform; each of the at least one aligning coupler including: coupling means configured to substantially conform to an end portion of a preform and to couple therewith when retaining the preform, the coupling means being configured to return to a neutral configuration when the preform is released; and alignment means configured to engage a body portion of one of the at least one preform for aligning the preform with the coupling means; the at least one aligning coupler being configured to substantially avoid directly influencing a heat distribution of the at least one preform retained therein. 2. The end-of-arm tool of claim 1, wherein the alignment means comprises an aligning surface of an opening in one of: an alignment jig; and an alignment insert retained on an alignment jig. 3. The end-of-arm tool of claim 2, wherein the coupling means comprises a coupling surface on an end-effector. 4. The end-of-arm tool of claim 3, wherein the coupling surface is formed on a crown portion of the end-effector. 5. The end-of-arm tool of claim 4, wherein the end-effector further includes a stem beneath the crown and a duct therethrough, a first opening of the duct intersecting the coupling surface, and a second opening of the duct being disposed at a base of the stem, the end-effector being configured to couple and decouple a preform controlled by the application of air pressure respectively through the first opening by means of an air pressure source connected to the second opening and acting through the duct. 6. The end-of-arm tool of claim 5, wherein the neutral configuration of the coupling surface is conical. 7. The end-of-arm tool of claim 6, wherein the end-effector further includes a first connector on the stem for connection with a complementary connector on the tooling base. 8. The end-of-arm tool of claim 7, wherein the end-effector is formed from rubber. 9. The end-of-arm tool of claim 8, wherein the end-effector includes a bellows section between the crown and the stem. 10. The end-of-arm tool of claim 3 wherein each of the at least one aligning coupler further includes include a flow director surrounding the end-effector, the flow director being configured arranged to temperature condition a preform retained on an injection mold core plate assembly of an injection mold by directing an airflow around a body portion of the at least one preform, the airflow being generated by an air pressure source acting through the first opening of the endeffector. 11. The end-of-arm tool of claim 10, wherein the at least one flow director is mounted to the tooling base. 12. The end-of-arm tool of claim 10, wherein the flow director comprises a substantially straight-walled tube. 13. The end-of-arm tool of claim 10, wherein the flow director comprises a tube with an inner wall profiled to be substantially symmetrical and offset from the outer geometry of the preform. 14. The end-of-arm tool of claim 10, wherein the flow director comprises a flow head adjustably engaged on a support member. 15. The end-of-arm tool of claim 14, wherein the flow head comprises a tube with an inner wall including an annular projection. 16. The end-of-arm tool of claim 12, wherein the alignment jig is mounted at a distal end of the at least one flow director. 17. The end-of-arm tool of any one of claims claim 1, 2, 3, or 10, wherein a plurality of the aligning couplers are arranged in at least one row on the tooling base. 18. The end-of-arm tool of claim 17, wherein the tooling base includes at least one manifold connecting the duct of each of the end-effectors of the plurality of aligning couplers in each row. 19. The end-of-arm tool of claim 18, wherein the alignment jig comprises be a rail having a plurality of the alignment means thereon for each row of the aligning couplers. 20. The end-of-arm tool of claim 18, wherein the alignment jig is a plate having a plurality of the alignment means thereon. 21. The end-of-arm tool of claim 7 wherein the aligning coupler includes an end-effector support for connecting the end-effector to the tooling base. 22. The end-of-arm tool of claim 21, wherein the end-effector support includes: a first connector for receiving the first connector of the end-effector; a second connector for connecting to the complementary connector on the tooling base; and a duct therethrough. 23. The end-of-arm tool of claim 22, wherein the tooling base further includes at least one alignment jig spacer spacing the alignment jig from the tooling base. 24. The end-of-arm tool of claim 1, wherein the tooling base further includes a bumper, the bumper being configured to interface with a complementary bumper on an injection mold to effect a coordination of movement between an injection mold stripper plate and the end-of-arm tool when transferring the preforms from the injection mold into the aligning couplers. 25. The end-of-arm tool of claim 24, wherein the tooling base includes at least one robot spacer sleeve, the robot spacer sleeve being configured to provide an interface to a robotic actuator. 26. An aligning coupler for an end-of-arm tool for handling a preform, the aligning coupler comprising: coupling means configured to substantially conform to an end portion of a preform and to couple therewith when retaining the preform, the coupling means being configured to return to a neutral configuration when the preform is released; and alignment means configured to engage, in use, a body portion of the preform for aligning the preform with the coupling means; the aligning coupler being configured to substantially avoid directly influencing a heat distribution of the preform retained therein. 27. The aligning coupler of claim 26, wherein the alignment means comprises an aligning surface of an opening in one of: an alignment jig; and an alignment insert retained on an alignment jig. 28. The aligning coupler of claim 27, wherein the coupling means comprises a coupling surface on an end-effector. 29. The aligning coupler of claim 28, wherein the coupling surface is formed on a crown portion of the end-effector. 30. The aligning coupler of claim 29, wherein the end-effector further includes a stem beneath the crown and a duct therethrough, a first opening of the duct intersecting the coupling surface, and a second opening of the duct being disposed at a base of the stem, the end-effector being configured to couple and decouple a preform controlled by the application of air pressure respectively through the first opening by means of an air pressure source connected to the second opening and acting through the duct. 31. The aligning coupler of claim 30, wherein the neutral configuration of the coupling surface is conical. 32. The aligning coupler of claim 31, wherein the end-effector further includes a first connector on the stem configured to connect the end-effector with a complementary connector on a tooling base. 33. The aligning coupler of claim 32, wherein the end-effector is formed from rubber. 34. The aligning coupler of claim 33, wherein the end-effector includes a bellows section between the crown and the stem. 35. The aligning coupler of claim 30, wherein the aligning coupler further includes a flow director surrounding the end-effector, the flow director being configured to temperature condition a preform retained on a injection mold core plate assembly of an injection mold by directing an airflow around a body portion of the retained preform, the airflow being generated by an the air pressure source acting through the first opening of the end-effector. 36. The aligning coupler of claim 35, wherein the flow director comprises a substantially straight-walled tube. 37. The aligning coupler of claim 35, wherein the flow director comprises a tube with an inner wall profiled to be substantially symmetrical and offset from the outer geometry of the preform. 38. The alignment coupler of claim 35, wherein the flow director comprises a flow head adjustably engaged on a support member. 39. The aligning coupler of claim 38, wherein the flow head comprises a tube with an inner wall including an annular projection. 40. An integrated injection molding and blow molding system for the production of hollow plastic articles, the system comprising: an injection molding machine including: an injection unit configured arranged to provide a controlled flow of pressurized molten plastic; and an injection mold clamp unit configured to operate an injection mold between a mold open position and a mold clamped position, the injection unit being connected to the injection mold clamp unit and configured to direct the flow of molten plastic into the injection mold for forming the at least one preform; and a robotic actuator including an end-of-arm tool configured to handle the at least one preform formed in the injection mold; the end-of-arm tool including: a tooling base; and at least one aligning coupler retained on the tooling base and configured to releaseably retain the at least one preform; each of the at least one aligning coupler including: coupling means configured arranged to substantially conform to an end portion of a preform and to couple therewith when retaining the preform, the coupling means being configured to return to a neutral configuration when the preform is released; and alignment means configured to engage a body portion of one of the at least one preform for aligning the preform with the coupling means; the at least one aligning coupler being configured to substantially avoid directly influencing a heat distribution of the at least one preform retained therein; and a blow molding machine including a blow clamp configured to operate a blow mold between a mold open position and a mold clamped position, the blow mold being configured to receive at least one of the at least one preform, and being configured to blow the preform into the hollow plastic articles. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the alignment means is an aligning surface of an opening in one of: an alignment jig; and an alignment insert retained on an alignment jig. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the coupling means comprises, a coupling surface on an end-effector. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein the coupling surface is formed on a crown portion of the end-effector. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein the end-effector further includes a stem beneath the crown and a duct therethrough, a first opening of the duct intersecting the coupling surface, and a second opening of the duct being disposed at a base of the stem, the end-effector being configured to couple and decouple a preform controlled by the application of air pressure respectively through the first opening by means of an air pressure source connected to the second opening and acting through the duct. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein the neutral configuration of the coupling surface is conical. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein the end-effector further includes a first connector on the stem configured to connect complementary connector on the tooling base. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the end-effector is formed from rubber. 48. The system of claim 47, wherein the end-effector includes a bellows section between the crown and the stem. 49. The system of claim 44, wherein each of the at least one aligning coupler further include a flow director surrounding the end-effector, the flow director being configured to temperature condition a preform retained on a injection mold core plate assembly of an injection mold by directing an airflow around a body portion of the at least one preform, the airflow being generated by the air pressure source acting through the first opening of the end-effector. 50. The system of claim 49, wherein the at least one flow director is mounted to the tooling base. 51. The system of claim 49, wherein the flow director is a substantially straight-walled tube. 52. The system of claim 49, wherein the flow director comprises a tube with an inner wall profiled to be substantially symmetrical and offset from the outer geometry of the preform. 53. The system of claim 49, wherein the flow director comprises a flow head adjustably engaged on a support member. 54. The system of claim 53, wherein the flow head comprises a tube with an inner wall including an annular projection. 55. The system of claim 51, wherein the alignment jig is mounted at a distal end of the at least one flow director. 56. The system of any one of claims 44 or 49, wherein a plurality of the aligning couplers are arranged in at least one row on the tooling base. 57. The system of claim 56, wherein the tooling base includes at least one manifold connecting the duct of each of the end-effectors of the plurality of aligning couplers in each row. 58. The system of claim 57, wherein the alignment jig comprises a rail having a plurality of the alignment means thereon for each row of the aligning couplers. 59. The system of claim 57, wherein the alignment jig comprises a plate having a plurality of the alignment means thereon. 60. The system of claim 46, wherein the aligning coupler includes an end-effector support for connecting the end-effector to the tooling base. 61. The system of claim 60, wherein the end-effector support includes: a first connector configured to receive the first connector of the end-effector; a second connector for connecting to the complementary connector on the tooling base; and a duct therethrough. 62. The system of claim 61, wherein the tooling base further includes at least one alignment jig spacer configured to space the alignment jig from the tooling base. 63. The system of claim 40, wherein the tooling base further includes a bumper, the bumper being configured to interface with a complementary bumper on an injection mold to effect a coordination of movement between an injection mold stripper plate and the end-of-arm tool when transferring the preforms from the injection mold into the aligning couplers. 64. The system of claim 63, wherein the tooling base includes at least one robot spacer sleeve, the robot spacer sleeve being configured to provide an interface to a robotic actuator. 65. The end-of-arm tool of claim 10, wherein the flow director comprises a tube with an inner wall that includes an annular projection. 66. The end of arm tool of any one of claims 18, 19, or 20, further including an air cooling means configured to convectively cool a plurality of preforms retained in the plurality of aligning couplers. 67. The end-of-arm tool of claim 66, wherein the plurality of aligning couplers is set to be a multiple of the number of performs formed in a single molding shot. 68. The aligning coupler of claim 35, wherein the flow director comprises a tube with an inner wall that includes an annular projection. 69. The system of claim 49, wherein the flow director comprises a tube with an inner wall that includes an annular projection. 70. The system of any one of claim 56, further including an air cooling means configured to convectively cool a plurality of preforms retained in the plurality of aligning couplers. 71. The system of claim 70, wherein the plurality of aligning couplers is set to be a multiple of the number of performs formed in a single shot. 