Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, a characteristic of a layer formed on a specimen by a deposition process. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least one characteristic of a layer on a specimen during use, comprising: a deposition tool configured to form the layer of material on the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the deposition tool, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct light toward a surface of the specimen during use; a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect light propagating from the surface of the specimen during use; wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected light during use; and wherein the illumination system and the detection system are further configured such that the measurement device comprises at least a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine a characteristic of the layer from the one or more output signals during use. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the measurement device, wherein the stage is configured to move laterally during use. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the measurement device, wherein the stage is configured to move rotatably during use. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the measurement device, wherein the stage is configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system comprises a single light source. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system comprises more than one light source. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises a single light sensitive device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises more than one light sensitive device. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein optical elements of the spectroscopic reflectometer comprise optical elements of the spectroscopic ellipsometer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a thickness, an index of refraction, an extinction coefficient, a critical dimension, and a presence of defects. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine one or more characteristics of the layer, and wherein the one or more characteristics are selected from the group consisting of a thickness, an index of refraction, an extinction coefficient, a critical dimension, and a presence of defects. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine an additional characteristic of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the additional characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of the layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the deposition tool comprises an atomic layer deposition tool. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an eddy current device. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an eddy current device, and wherein the deposition tool comprises an atomic layer deposition tool. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine at least two characteristics of the layer substantially simultaneously during use. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct light to multiple locations on the surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously, and wherein the detection system is further configured to detect light propagating from the multiple locations on the surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously such that at least the one characteristic of the layer on the specimen can be determined at the multiple locations substantially simultaneously. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a process chamber of the deposition tool. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the deposition tool. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the deposition tool, and wherein the deposition tool comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to a stage coupled to the measurement device during use. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the deposition tool, and wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen from the measurement device to the deposition tool during use. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the deposition tool, and wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen to the process chamber of the deposition tool during use. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the characteristic of the layer on the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the deposition tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a deposition process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the measurement device. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the deposition tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a deposition process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially perpendicular to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the measurement device. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the deposition tool. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of the deposition tool. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the deposition tool, and wherein the stage is configured to support the specimen during a deposition process step. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the deposition tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the characteristic of the specimen during a deposition process step. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the deposition tool, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing formation of the layer during use, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the formation of the layer. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the deposition tool, wherein the processor is further coupled to the deposition tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the deposition tool in response to the characteristic using an in situ control technique during use. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the deposition tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the deposition tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the characteristic of the layer as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the characteristic of the layer and characteristics of a plurality of layers during use. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the characteristic of the layer to a predetermined range for the characteristic during use. 36. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the characteristic of the layer to a predetermined range for the characteristic during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the characteristic of the layer is outside of the predetermined range for the characteristic during use. 37. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the measurement device in response to the characteristic of the layer during use. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to the characteristic using a feedback control technique during use. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to the characteristic using a feedforward control technique during use. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the database comprises the characteristic of the layer. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the measurement device using the database during use. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the measurement device using the database during use. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the characteristic of the layer and characteristics of a plurality of layers, and wherein the characteristics of the plurality of layers are determined using the measurement device. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the characteristic of the layer and characteristics of a plurality of layers, and wherein the characteristics of the plurality of layers are determined using a plurality of measurement devices. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 46. The system of claim 44, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 47. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 48. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the characteristic at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to the characteristic at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of the characteristic. 50. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the deposition tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the deposition tool in response to the characteristic using a feedback control technique during use. 51. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the deposition tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the deposition tool in response to the characteristic using a feedforward control technique during use. 52. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the deposition tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the deposition tool during use. 53. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the deposition tool, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the deposition tool during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the characteristic and at least one of the monitored parameters during use. 54. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the deposition tool, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the deposition tool during use, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the characteristic and at least one of the monitored parameters during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of at least one of the one or more instruments in response to the relationship during use. 55. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of measurement devices, and wherein each of the plurality of measurement devices is coupled to one of a plurality of semiconductor fabrication process tools. 56. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of deposition tools, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the plurality of deposition tools during use. 57. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the measurement device and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 58. The system of claim 57, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the characteristic of the layer during use. 59. The system of claim 57, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the characteristic of the layer during use. 60. A method for determining at least one characteristic of a layer on a specimen, comprising: forming the layer of material upon the specimen with a deposition tool; directing light toward a surface of the specimen using an illumination system; detecting light propagating from the surface of the specimen using a detection system, wherein the illumination system and the detection system are arranged in a measurement device comprising at least a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the measurement device is coupled to the deposition tool; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a characteristic of the layer. 61. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least one characteristic of a layer on a specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a measurement device coupled to a deposition tool, and wherein the deposition tool is configured to form the layer of material on the specimen during use, the method comprising: controlling the measurement device, wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system, and wherein the illumination system and the detection system are configured such that the measurement device comprises a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer, comprising: controlling the illumination system to direct light toward a surface of the specimen; controlling the detection system to detect light propagating from the surface of the specimen; and generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a characteristic of the layer. 62. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: disposing a specimen in a deposition tool configured to form a layer of material on a specimen, wherein the deposition tool is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; forming the layer of material upon the specimen, wherein the layer comprises a portion of the semiconductor device; directing light toward a surface of the specimen using the illumination system; detecting light propagating from the surface of the specimen using the detection system, wherein the illumination system and the detection system comprise at least a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a characteristic of the layer. 63. A system configured to determine at least one characteristic of a layer on a specimen during use, comprising: a deposition tool configured to form the layer of material on the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the deposition tool, comprising: an illumination system configured to direct light toward a surface of the specimen during use; a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect light propagating from the surface of the specimen during use, wherein the measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected energy; and wherein the illumination system and the detection system are further configured such that the measurement device comprises at least a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer; a local processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals and to determine a characteristic of the layer from the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 64. A method for determining at least one characteristic of a layer on a specimen, comprising: forming the layer of material upon the specimen; directing light toward a surface of the specimen using an illumination system; detecting light propagating from the surface of the specimen using a detection system, wherein the illumination system and the detection system comprise at least a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected light; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a characteristic of the layer, comprising: at least partially processing the one or more output signals using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the measurement device; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 