An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part. The apparatus includes a part support, a sprayer and a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support and a display device positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures a dimension of the section of the part being coated. In one embodiment, an initial amount of coating and a final amount of coating are applied to the section of the part based on the dimension measurements and desired dimension of the part. In another embodiment, the amount of coating applied to the part is based on the desired coating thickness. As a result, the apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. A coating apparatus for applying a coating to a section of a part, said apparatus comprising: support means for supporting the part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying a coating to the section of the part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for measuring the section of the part; and means for controlling the coating means and measuring means, said controlling means operable to cause the measuring means to measure a dimension of the section of the part being coated while causing the coating means to continue to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support means includes a part support. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, which includes at least one shield connected to the part support. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating means includes a sprayer. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating means includes a plurality of sprayers. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to each of the sprayers. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the support means and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the support means. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the housings each include a transparent member connected to said housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein each transparent member is removably connected to the housing. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes a display device in communication with the control means and operable to display the measurements of the section of the part. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the display device is operable to display at least one of the dimensional tolerance for the section of the part. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control means controls the support means. 17. A coating apparatus for applying a coating to a section of a part, said apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a processor which controls sprayer and part measurer to measure a dimension of the section of a part supported by the part support and being coated while causing the sprayer to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the part support is controlled by the processor. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, which includes a display device controlled by the processor and operable to display the measurements of the section of the part. 21. The apparatus of claim 17, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to the sprayer. 22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the part measurer includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the part support and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the part support. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in a housing. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein each housing includes a transparent member connected to said housing. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, which includes an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 26. The apparatus of claim 17, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 27. A coating apparatus for applying a coating to a section of a part, said apparatus comprising: a part support; a plurality of sprayers positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support; and a processor operable with the sprayers and part measurer to measure a dimension of a section of a part supported by the part support and being coated while causing the sprayers to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, which includes a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to each of the sprayers. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the part measurer includes a laser generator and a laser receiver. 30. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the processor controls the part support. 