The invention relates to an adhesive robot, comprising a device for applying adhesive to a workpiece. The adhesive robot has a nozzle head (18), which has an application nozzle (24) and can be supplied with a pressurized viscous adhesive, the nozzle head (18) and the workpiece (14) being displaceable in relation to one another. The adhesive which is issued from the application nozzle (24) in a spray jet (28) is applied to a workpiece (14) along a predefined line of application (36) in the form of a strip of adhesive (40). To facilitate the adjustment and re-calibration process, the system comprises at least one camera unit (42), which is located on the nozzle head (18) and whose leans is directed towards the spray jet (28) or the adhesive strip (40). The output of said camera unit is connected to an image evaluation unit (45). The image data (40) recorded by the camera unit (42) is buffered and compared with predetermined image values (40). The decisive control parameters for the system can be calibrated and tracked either automatically or by remote control, on the basis of deviations in the image data that have been determined along the line of application (36).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for applying adhesive to a workpiece, comprising a nozzle head (18), which has an application nozzle (24) and can be supplied with a pressurized viscous adhesive, wherein the nozzle head (18) and the workpiece (14) are displaceable in relation to one another via robotic means (10) such that the adhesive, which is issued from the application nozzle (24), preferably as a spray jet (28), is applied to a workpiece (14) along a predefined line of application (36) in the form of a strip of adhesive (40), and wherein at least one camera unit (42), which is located on the nozzle head (18) or an associated robotic element, with lens directed towards the spray jet (28) or the adhesive strip (40), of which the output of said camera unit is connected to an image evaluation unit (45), wherein the image evaluation unit (45) includes an actual value memory (47) for continuous storage of the measured image data (40) as well as an impulse clock or a provider of position (57) along the application line (36) synchronizable with the actual value memory, and wherein the nozzle head (18) is a cyclone spray head, of which the application nozzle (24) is for emission of a coherent adhesive thread (28) and is drivable for rotating about an eccentric axis, and that a control device is provided for adjusting the nozzle rotation speed according to the value of the predetermined strip breadth along the application line (36), which can be acted upon by a tracking or adjusting signal derived from the image evaluation unit (45), determined by the deviation of the measured image data from the predetermined strip breadth. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the image evaluation unit includes an intended value memory or generator for generating predetermined image data (40') along the application line (36). 3. A device according to claim 2, wherein it is adapted to generate the intended value image data (40') in a teaching run. 4. A device according to claim 1, wherein the image evaluation unit (45) includes a comparison circuit or routine for comparing the actual/intended values of at least a portion of the image data (40, 40') along the application line (36). 5. A device according to claim 1, wherein the nozzle head (18) is supplied with adhesive via a dispensing device (52), and that the image evaluation unit (45) and/or the distance sensor (46) are components of the control loop driving the dispensing device (52, 54). 6. A device according to claim 5, wherein the dispensing device includes a volume control for adjusting the adhesive material flow as well as an actuation or control device (54) for adjusting the strip breadth of the adhesive along the application line (36). 7. A device according to claim 6, wherein the robot (10) includes a navigator or a path curve memory or generator for adjusting the path and the speed of the nozzle head (18) along the predetermined application line (36). 8. A device according to claim 6, wherein the flow controller includes a piston pump with a piston stroke measuring device, of which the drive pressure or force is variable in the case of an at least temporarily constant application-nozzle opening cross-section. 9. A device according to claim 1, wherein the nozzle head (18) is supplied wit adhesive via a pressure control (52) and that the image evaluation unit (45) and/or the distance sensor (46) are components of the control loop driving the pressure control (52, 54). 10. A device according to claim 1, wherein the nozzle head (18) is a cyclone spray head, of which the application nozzle is adapted for output of a coherent adhesive thread (28), and which includes at least one spray air channel (34) oriented diagonal to the application nozzle (24), and that a control unit (54) is provided for setting the spray air supply according to the value of the predetermined strip breadth along the application line (36), which can be acted upon by a tracking or adjusting signal derived from the image evaluation unit (45), determined by the deviation of the measured image data from the predetermined strip breadth. 