An apparatus is provided for needle filling and thermally resealing containers having stoppers that are needle penetrable for filling the containers with a substance, and are thermally resealable for thermally sealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom. A container support of the apparatus supports at least one container having a resealable stopper in a substantially fixed position during needle filling and thermally resealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom. A robotic arm of the apparatus is drivingly mounted adjacent to the container support and movable relative thereto. A manifold is drivingly mounted on the robotic arm and includes (1) a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into the container; (2) a laser optic assembly for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, sealing a needle hole in the stopper; and (3) a temperature sensor for sensing the temperate of a needle penetrated region of the stopper to determine whether a needle hole therein is sealed. The manifold is movable laterally relative to the container on the container support to position the manifold relative to a needle penetrable region of the stopper of the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for needle filling and thermally resealing containers having stoppers that are needle penetrable for filling the containers with a substance, and are thermally resealable for thermally sealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom, the apparatus comprising: a container support for supporting at least one container having a resealable stopper in a substantially fixed position during at least one of needle filling and thermally resealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom; a robotic arm drivingly mounted adjacent to the container support and movable relative thereto; and a manifold drivingly mounted on the robotic arm and including at least one of (1) a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into the container; (2) a thermal source for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, sealing a needle hole in the stopper; and (3) a temperature sensor for sensing the temperate of a needle penetrated region of the stopper to determine whether a needle hole therein is sealed; wherein the manifold is movable laterally relative to the container on the container support to position the manifold relative to a needle penetrable region of the stopper of the container. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the manifold includes a thermal source having an output for transmitting a laser beam therefrom and onto a needle penetrated region of the stopper. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the temperature sensor determines whether the temperature of the resealable surface of the stopper is greater than the melting temperature of the stopper material and less than the vaporization temperature of the stopper material. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the temperature sensor compares a sensed temperature to at least one predetermined temperature to determine whether a needle hole in the stopper is sealed. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the manifold includes a needle, a thermal energy source, and a temperature sensor. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the manifold and each of the needle, thermal energy source and temperature sensor are movable together in at least three coordinate directions. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the manifold comprises a plurality of needles, a plurality of thermal sources, and a plurality of temperature sensors. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising an e-beam source for generating an e-beam field, and wherein at least the needle penetrable region of the stopper and a portion of the manifold are located within the e-beam field. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a control unit for determining the position of the container and for controlling movement of the manifold relative thereto. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein the manifold includes a needle, a thermal energy source and a temperature sensor, and the controller controls movement of the manifold relative to the container to position the needle over a needle penetrable region of the stopper, insert the needle into the stopper, introduce a substance through the needle and into an interior chamber of the container, withdraw the needle from the stopper, transmit radiation through the thermal energy source and onto a needle hole formed in the stopper to reseal the stopper, and control the temperature sensor to determine whether the needle hole is resealed. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein the container support includes a tray that supports thereon a plurality of containers in fixed positions relative to each other and forming a matrix with a plurality of rows and columns of containers, and the controller controls the manifold to move from the needle penetrable region of one stopper to another. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the container support includes a tray that supports thereon a plurality of containers in fixed positions relative to each other, and the tray includes a plurality of connecting portions, and each connecting portion is releasably connectable to a respective container for connecting the container thereto and for releasably fixing the container on the tray. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, further comprising a container fixture receivable within the tray and including a plurality of connecting portions thereon for releasably connecting the containers thereto. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein a plurality of the connecting portions are each defined by a recess for receiving therein a base portion of a respective container, and at least one flexible upstanding portion that is engagable with the base portion of the container to releasably secure the container thereto. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a needle cartridge including a needle, a needle mount for mounting the needle on the manifold, and a needle cover releasably coupled to the needle mount for covering the needle during at least one of transportation, installation and removal of the needle from the manifold, and removable from the needle upon mounting the needle to the manifold. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a tray defining a plurality of recesses spaced relative to each other and connecting portions located adjacent to the recesses, and wherein the container is a vial defining a substantially cylindrical base defining a first diameter, a body defining a second diameter, and an upper portion located on an opposite side of the body relative to the base and defining a third diameter, and wherein the first and third diameters are greater than the second diameter. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein the connecting portions are defined by at least two upstanding flexible portions that flexibly engage the base portion of the vial to secure the base within the respective recess. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is movable in the x, y and z coordinate directions. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a laminar flow source for introducing a substantially laminar flow of gas over the manifold and a container mounted adjacent to the manifold. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein the laminar flow is at least one of (1) directed vertically and (2) directed horizontally. 21. An apparatus for needle filling and thermally resealing containers having stoppers that are needle penetrable for filling the containers with a substance, and are thermally resealable for thermally sealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom, the apparatus comprising: first means for supporting at least one container having a resealable stopper in a substantially fixed position during at least one of needle filling and thermally resealing a needle hole in the stopper upon withdrawal of a needle therefrom; a manifold that includes at least one of (1) a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into the container; (2) a thermal source for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, sealing a needle hole in the stopper; and (3) a temperature sensor for sensing the temperate of a needle penetrated region of the stopper to determine whether a needle hole therein is sealed; and second means for moving the manifold in a plurality of directions relative to the container on the first means to position the manifold relative to a needle penetrable region of the stopper of the container. 22. An apparatus as defined in claim 21, wherein the first means is a container support. 23. An apparatus as defined in claim 21, wherein the second means is a robotic arm. 24. A method for needle filling and thermally resealing a plurality of containers each having a resealable stopper, the method comprising: providing a manifold drivingly mounted on a robotic arm and including at least one of (1) a needle for penetrating the resealable stopper and introducing a substance through the needle and into one of the plurality of containers; (2) a thermal source for heating a needle penetrated region of the stopper and, in turn, sealing a needle hole in the stopper; and (3) a temperature sensor for sensing the temperate of a needle penetrated region of the stopper to determine whether a needle hole therein is sealed; and moving the manifold relative to the plurality of containers, the manifold is movable in a plurality of directions. 