Embodiments of the present invention describe a MALDI (matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionization) sample plate body that includes a reusable sample plate and a sample plate adapter that are releasably coupled to one another. In one particular embodiment, the sample plate and the sample plate adapter are releasably coupled to one another to form the MALDI sample plate body by a latch formed by a spring-loaded hook within the sample plate adapter and a recess shaped to accept the hook within the sample plate. The MALDI sample plate body may be formed by aligning the sample plate with the sample plate adapter and coupling the sample plate to the sample plate adapter to releasably couple the sample plate to the sample plate adapter.
Claims We claim: 1. A MALDI sample plate body, comprising: a sample plate having a top surface for retaining at least one sample thereon and a bottom surface; and a sample plate adapter, releasably coupled to the sample plate in a manner that inhibits the movement of the sample plate relative to the sample plate adapter, the sample plate adapter exerting a downward force on the sample plate in a direction orthogonal to the plane of the sample plate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample plate adapter further exerts a lateral force on the sample plate in a direction lying in the plane of the sample plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the bottom surface of the sample plate is in direct and continuous contact with the corresponding surface of the sample plate adapter. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample plate adapter further comprises a latch to releasably couple the sample plate adapter to the sample plate. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the latch comprises a spring-loaded hook. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the sample plate includes a recess shaped to accept at least a corresponding portion of the spring-loaded hook. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the spring-loaded hook exerts both a lateral force and a downward force on the sample plate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample plate adapter further comprises a set of pins projecting upwardly from the upper surface of the sample plate adapter, and the sample plate is adapted with a set of openings spatially corresponding to the set of pins such that the sample plate adapter may be aligned with the sample plate by bringing the set of pins into registration with the set of openings. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the set of pins includes a first pin and a second pin not directly across from one another. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the set of openings in the sample plate comprises a slot and a hole. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample plate and the sample plate adapter each have holes for a plurality of screws, the plurality of screws to releasably couple the sample plate to the sample plate adapter. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample plate adapter further comprises magnets to releasably couple the sample plate adapter to the sample plate. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an electrical insulator interposed between the sample plate and the sample plate adapter. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample plate adapter is constructed from an electrically insulative material. 15. A MALDI sample plate body, comprising: a sample plate adapter, the sample plate adapter comprising a spring-loaded hook, a first pin perpendicular to the top surface and a second pin perpendicular to the top surface, the first pin and the second pin positioned on opposite sides of the top surface; and a sample plate, the sample plate comprising a top surface for retaining at least one sample, and a bottom surface including a recess shaped to accept the hook and including a slot and a hole positioned to align with the first pin and the second pin, respectively. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first pin and the second pin couple the sample plate adapter with the sample plate to prevent movement of the sample plate with respect to the sample plate adapter in the x-direction and the y-direction within the x-y plane of the sample plate body. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the spring-loaded hook latched into the recess couples the sample plate adapter with the sample plate to prevent movement of the sample plate with respect to the sample plate adapter in the z-direction perpendicular to the plane of the sample plate. 