A system for expanding generalizing aspects of an autoharp and making these functionalities beneficially available on other instruments. Strumpads comprising arrays of isolated touch switches, each generating distinct signals, are used to generate MIDI note events according to interpretations of an active mapping selected from a plurality of programmable mappings. The active mapping may be selected via chord buttons or foot switches, or may be determined by keys on a melodic keyboard. Mappings in some embodiments may provide repeated notes, non-note signals, and utilize one or more MIDI channels for controlling synthesizers, lighting, electronic percussion, and the like. The strumped may further include orienting tactile markings and provide pressure and velocity sensing. The system may be attached to or integrated within another instrument such as a guitar, keyboard, autoharp, pedal steel guitar, sitar, koto, mbria, and pipa, among others. For guitar applications, a strumped may be attached to or integrated into a guitar pickguard.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A strumpad system comprising: at least one strumpad, wherein each strumpad of said at least one strumpad comprises a plurality of touch switches, wherein each touch switch of said plurality of touch switches generates a distinct touch switch signal in response to user contact; a memory unit for storing preset mapping data, wherein said preset mapping data comprises a range of possible touch switch signals and signal output data, wherein said signal output data comprises note events, wherein a plurality of touch switch signals of said range of possible touch switch signals are mapped to particular note events identified in said signal output data; a plurality of interpretation switches, wherein each interpretation switch of said plurality of interpretation switches comprises user selectable positions, wherein a position of said user selectable positions selects an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data; a processor for generating an output control signal, said processor responsive to each of said plurality of touch switch signals of said range of possible touch switch signals, said output control signal generated according to said signal output data of an active mapping, said active mapping selected by at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches; and an output interface providing an outgoing control signal responsive to said output control signal. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said outgoing control signal comprises a particular note event in MIDI format. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said signal output data comprises a list of a plurality of transmit entries, where each entry of said plurality of transmit entries comprises a touch switch signal value and an associated note event in MIDI format. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein said signal output data comprises a list of a plurality of transmit entries, where each entry of said plurality of transmit entries comprises a touch switch signal value and an associated note event in MIDI format or an associated null entry indicating an instruction not to generate said output control signal. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said signal output data of said active mapping further indicates a variable MIDI channel number to be used in said outgoing control signal. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of said touch switch signals of said range of possible touch switch signals are mapped to the same note events in MIDI format identified in said signal output data. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches comprises a chord button. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches comprises a foot switch. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said strumpad system is configured as an add-on unit that is attachable to a musical instrument. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein said strumpad system is integrated with a musical instrument. 11. The system according to claim 1, said at least one strumpad having a top side and a bottom side, said top side defining an area for operating said plurality of touch switches, said system further comprising: a velocity sensor coupled to said bottom side of said at least one strumpad, wherein said velocity sensor generates MIDI signals corresponding to the relative velocity that a user contacts any touch switch of said plurality of touch switches. 12. The system according to claim 1, said at least one strumpad having a top side and a bottom side, said top side defining an area for operating said plurality of touch switches, said system further comprising: a pressure sensor configured on said bottom side of said at least one strumpad, wherein said pressure sensor generates MIDI signals corresponding to the relative pressure that a user contacts any touch switch of said plurality of touch switches. 13. The system according to claim 1, wherein said signal output data further includes non-note events in MIDI format, wherein at least one touch switch signal of said range of possible touch switch signals is mapped to particular non-note events in MIDI format identified in said signal output data. 14. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is generated when a new active mapping is selected by any of said plurality of interpretation switches. 15. The system according to claim 14, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal comprises a MIDI note event. 16. The system according to claim 14, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal comprises a MIDI program change event. 17. The system according to claim 14, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is communicated to an external sound synthesizer system, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is used to control said external sound synthesizer system. 18. The system according to claim 14, wherein said outgoing control signal for each of said plurality of touch switches is communicated to a percussion device, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is used to control said percussion device. 19. The system according to claim 14, wherein said outgoing control signal for each of said plurality of touch switches is communicated to an external lighting system, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is used to control said external lighting system. 20. The system according to claim 1, wherein said outgoing control signal for each of said plurality of touch switches is communicated to a special effects system, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is used to control said special effects system. 21. The system according to claim 1, said system further comprising: a melodic keyboard comprising a plurality of keys, wherein each key of said plurality of keys comprises a user selectable position that controls said signal output data within said active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data. 22. The system according to claim 21, wherein a plurality of said keys are used to simultaneously control said signal output data. 23. The system according to claim 1, said system further comprising: a melodic keyboard comprising a plurality of keys, wherein each key of said plurality of keys comprises a user selectable position, wherein particular combinations of said plurality of keys are associated with an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data. 24. The system according to claim 1, said system further comprising: a plurality of physical controller devices, wherein each device of said plurality of physical controller devices generate an outgoing signal of MIDI format. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein at least one of said plurality of physical controller devices includes a slider control. 26. The system according to claim 24, wherein at least one of said plurality of physical controller devices includes a switch. 27. The system according to claim 24, wherein at least one of said plurality of physical controller devices includes a button. 28. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to an autoharp. 29. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to an autoharp comprising a plurality of strings and mechanical chord buttons operating string damping bars, wherein at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches are coupled to said mechanical chord buttons facilitating string damping for an associated at least one of said plurality of strings of said autoharp. 30. The system according to claim 1, wherein said strumpad system is coupled to an autoharp comprising a plurality of strings, wherein said strumpad system is proximately located to a string strumming area of said autoharp to facilitate proximate user operation of said plurality of strings and said strumpad system. 31. The system according to claim 30, wherein said strumpad system is strummed along with strumming of said plurality of strings. 32. The system according to claim 1, wherein said strumpad system is coupled to an autoharp comprising a plurality of strings, wherein said strumpad system is proximately located to a mechanical chord button area of said autoharp. 33. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to a guitar. 34. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to a sitar. 35. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to a koto. 36. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to a mbira. 37. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to a pedal steel guitar. 38. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is coupled to a pipa. 39. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least two of said plurality of outgoing control signals are provided by said output interface simultaneously, or substantially simultaneously. 40. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one strumpad comprises tactile markings. 41. A method for control signal generation for a strumpad, said method comprising: generating distinct touch switch signals in response to user contact using at least one strumpad, wherein each strumpad of said at least one strumpad comprises a plurality of touch switches, wherein each touch switch of said plurality of touch switches generates said distinct touch switch signal; storing preset mapping data in a memory unit, wherein said preset mapping data comprises a range of possible touch switch signals and signal output data, wherein said signal output data comprises note events, wherein a plurality of touch switch signals of said range of possible touch switch signals are mapped to particular note events identified in said signal output data; selecting an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in preset mapping data using a plurality of interpretation switches, wherein each interpretation switch of said plurality of interpretation switches comprises user selectable positions, wherein a position of said user selectable positions selects said active mapping from said plurality of possible mappings; generating an output control signal using a processor, said processor responsive to each of said plurality of touch switch signals of said range of possible touch switch signals, said output control signal generated according to said signal output data of an active mapping, said active mapping selected by at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches; and providing an outgoing control signal responsive to said output control signal. 42. The method according to claim 41, wherein said outgoing control signal comprises a particular note event in MIDI format. 43. The method according to claim 41, wherein said signal output data comprises a list of a plurality of transmit entries, where each entry of said plurality of transmit entries comprises a touch switch signal value and an associated note event in MIDI format. 44. The method according to claim 41, wherein said signal output data comprises a list of a plurality of transmit entries, where each entry of said plurality of transmit entries comprises a touch switch signal value and an associated note event in MIDI format or an associated null entry indicating an instruction not to generate said output control signal. 45. The method according to claim 41, wherein said signal output data of said active mapping further indicates a variable MIDI channel number to be used in said outgoing control signal. 46. The method according to claim 41, wherein a plurality of said touch switch signals of said range of possible touch switch signals are mapped to the same note events in MIDI format identified in said signal output data. 47. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches comprises a chord button. 48. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches comprises a foot switch. 49. The method according to claim 41, wherein said strumpad system is configured as an add-on unit that is attachable to a musical instrument. 50. The method according to claim 41, wherein said strumpad system is integrated with a musical instrument. 51. The method according to claim 41, said at least one strumpad having a top side and a bottom side, said top side defining an area for operating said plurality of touch switches, and wherein a velocity sensor is coupled to said bottom side of said at least one strumpad, wherein said velocity sensor generates MIDI signals corresponding to the relative velocity that a user contacts any touch switch of said plurality of touch switches. 52. The method according to claim 41, said at least one strumpad having a top side and a bottom side, said top side defining an area for operating said plurality of touch switches, and wherein a pressure sensor is configured on said bottom side of said at least one strumpad, wherein said pressure sensor generates MIDI signals corresponding to the relative pressure that a user contacts any touch switch of said plurality of touch switches. 53. The method according to claim 41, wherein said signal output data further includes non-note events in MIDI format, wherein at least one touch switch signal of said range of possible touch switch signals is mapped to particular non-note events in MIDI format identified in said signal output data. 54. The method according to claim 41, wherein at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is generated when a new active mapping is selected by any of said plurality of interpretation switches. 55. The method according to claim 54, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal comprises a MIDI note event. 56. The method according to claim 54, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal comprises a MIDI program change event. 57. The method according to claim 54, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is communicated to an external sound synthesizer system, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is used to control said external sound synthesizer system. 58. The method according to claim 54, wherein said outgoing control signal for each of said plurality of touch switches is communicated to a percussion device, wherein said at least one outgoing MIDI event signal is used to control said percussion device. 59. The method according to claim 41, said method further comprising: controlling said signal output data using a melodic keyboard comprising a plurality of keys, wherein each key of said plurality of keys comprises a user selectable position that controls said signal output data within said active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data. 60. The method according to claim 59, wherein a plurality of said keys are used to simultaneously control said signal output data. 61. The method according to claim 41, said method further comprising: controlling said signal output data using a melodic keyboard comprising a plurality of keys, wherein each key of said plurality of keys comprises a user selectable position, wherein particular combinations of said plurality of keys are associated with an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data. 62. The method according to claim 41, said method further comprising: controlling said signal output data using a plurality of physical controller devices, wherein each device of said plurality of physical controller devices generates an outgoing signal of MIDI format. 63. The method according to claim 41, wherein said method is coupled to an autoharp comprising a plurality of strings and mechanical chord buttons operating string damping bars, wherein at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches are coupled to said mechanical chord buttons facilitating string damping for an associated at least one of said plurality of strings of said autoharp. 64. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one strumpad is coupled to an autoharp comprising a plurality of strings, wherein said at least one strumpad is proximately located to a string strumming area of said autoharp to facilitate proximate user operation of said plurality of strings and said at least one strumpad. 65. The method according to claim 64, wherein said at least one strumpad is strummed along with strumming of said plurality of strings. 66. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one strumpad is coupled to an autoharp comprising a plurality of strings, wherein said at least one strumpad is proximately located to a mechanical chord button area of said autoharp. 67. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one strumpad is coupled to a guitar. 68. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one strumpad is coupled to a sitar. 69. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one strumpad is coupled to a pedal steel guitar. 70. The method according to claim 41, wherein at least two of said plurality of outgoing control signals are provided by said output interface simultaneously, or substantially simultaneously. 71. The method according to claim 41, wherein said at least one strumpad comprises tactile markings. 72. A pressure sensor strumpad system comprising: at least one strumpad, wherein each strumpad of said at least one strumpad comprises a plurality of pressure sensors, wherein each pressure sensor of said plurality of pressure sensors generates a pressure sensor signal in response to user contact; a memory unit for storing preset mapping data, wherein said preset mapping data comprises a range of possible pressure sensor signals and signal output data, wherein said signal output data comprises control events, wherein a plurality of pressure sensor signals of said range of possible pressure sensor signals are mapped to particular control events identified in said signal output data; a plurality of interpretation switches, wherein each interpretation switch of said plurality of interpretation switch comprises user selectable positions, wherein a position of said user selectable positions selects an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data; a processor for generating an output control signal, said processor responsive to each of said plurality of pressure sensor signals of said range of possible pressure sensor signals, said output control signal generated according to said signal output data of an active mapping, said active mapping selected by at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches; and an output interface providing an outgoing control signal responsive to said output control signal. 73. The system according to claim 72, wherein said signal output data further provides a mapping of pressure sensor signals to note events in MIDI format. 74. A method for control signal generation for a pressure sensor strumpad, said method comprising: generating distinct touch pressure sensor signals in response to user contact using at least one strumpad, wherein each strumpad of said at least one strumpad comprises a plurality of pressure sensors, wherein each pressure sensor of said plurality of pressure sensors generates said pressure sensor signals; storing preset mapping data in a memory unit, wherein said preset mapping data comprises a range of possible pressure sensor signals and signal output data, wherein said signal output data comprises control events, wherein a plurality of pressure sensor signals of said range of possible pressure sensor signals are mapped to particular control events identified in said signal output data; selecting an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings stored in said preset mapping data using a plurality of interpretation switches, wherein each interpretation switch of said plurality of interpretation switch comprises user selectable positions, wherein a position of said user selectable positions selects an active mapping from a plurality of possible mappings; generating an output control signal using a processor, said processor responsive to each of said plurality of pressure sensor signals of said range of possible pressure sensor signals, said output control signal generated according to said signal output data of an active mapping, said active mapping selected by at least one of said plurality of interpretation switches; and providing an outgoing control signal responsive to said output control signal. 75. The method according to claim 74, wherein said signal output data further provides a mapping of pressure sensor signals to note events in MIDI format. 76. A system for providing string volume control to a string instrument, said system comprising: a chord controller comprising a plurality of keys; a tuned array of strings, wherein each string of said array of strings is adapted to be vibrated by an external stimulus; and a volume control element associated with a plurality of strings of said array of strings, wherein a selected key or combination of keys of said plurality of keys provide volume control for said plurality of strings. 77. The system according to claim 76, wherein said volume control element comprises a mechanical damper, said mechanical damper contacting selected strings of said array of strings as determined by said key. 78. The system according to claim 76, wherein said volume control element comprises a mechanical damper, said mechanical damper contacting selected strings of said array of strings as determined by said combination of said keys. 79. The system according to claim 76, wherein each string of said array of strings is coupled with a dedicated vibration-sensing transducer, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of an associated string of said array of strings. 80. The system according to claim 79, wherein said key or said combination of keys provides said volume control by controlling said electrical signal generated by at least one transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers. 81. The system according to claim 79, wherein each key of said plurality of keys includes a sensor operable at a playing surface of said key. 82. The system according to claim 81, wherein said sensor is adapted to control the mix balance among a pitch-related plurality of strings of said string array, wherein each string of said pitch-related plurality strings is tuned to a different octave. 83. The system according to claim 79, wherein said key or said combination of keys provides said volume control based upon an amount of pressure applied to said key or said combination of keys. 84. The system according to claim 79, wherein each key of said plurality of keys is displaceable within a key travel range, wherein said volume control varies depending upon location within said key travel range that said key is positioned. 85. The system according to claim 84, wherein a combination of said plurality of keys simultaneously and independently provide said volume control of strings associated with each said combination of said plurality of keys. 86. The system according to claim 76, wherein vibration of a string of said array of strings is induced by strumming. 87. The system according to claim 79, wherein vibration of a string of said array of strings is mechanically induced sympathetic vibration. 88. The system according to claim 79, wherein vibration of a string of said array of strings is induced by at least one electrical drive transducer. 89. The system according to claim 76, wherein varying operation of a selected key or combination of keys of said plurality of keys is used to vary the spectral quality of the ambient effect produced by one or more strings of said array of strings. 90. The system according to claim 76, said system further comprising: a strumpad comprising a plurality of touch switches, wherein each touch switch of said plurality of touch switches generates a touch switch signal in response to user contact. 91. The system according to claim 90, wherein said keyboard further controls note assignments of synthesized notes generated in response to said touch switch signals. 92. The system according to claim 90, wherein said keyboard further controls amplitudes of synthesized notes generated in response to said touch switch signals. 93. The system according to claim 76, wherein each key of said plurality of keys includes a null-contact touch-pad formed on a surface of said key. 94. The system according to claim 76, wherein each key of said plurality of keys responsively generate an outgoing control signal comprising a signal of MIDI note event format. 95. The system according to claim 76, wherein a selected key or combination of keys determine which string of said array of strings responsively generate outgoing control signals comprising a signal of MIDI note event format. 96. A method for providing string volume control to a string instrument, said method comprising: providing a chord controller comprising a plurality of keys; vibrating one or more strings of a tuned array of strings, wherein said vibrating is accomplished by external stimulus; and providing volume control for a plurality of strings of said array of strings using a volume control element associated with said plurality of strings, wherein a selected key or combination of keys of said plurality of keys provide said volume control. 97. The method according to claim 96, wherein said volume control element comprises a mechanical damper, said mechanical damper contacting selected strings of said array of strings as determined by said key. 98. The method according to claim 96, wherein said volume control element comprises a mechanical damper, said mechanical damper contacting selected strings of said array of strings as determined by said combination of said keys. 99. The method according to claim 96, wherein each string of said array of strings is coupled with a dedicated vibration-sensing transducer, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of an associated string of said array of strings. 100. The method according to claim 99, wherein said key or said combination of keys provides said volume control by controlling said electrical signal generated by at least one transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers. 101. The method according to claim 99, wherein each key of said plurality of keys includes a sensor operable at a playing surface of said key. 102. The method according to claim 101, wherein said sensor is adapted to control the mix balance among a pitch-related plurality of strings of said string array, wherein each string of said pitch-related plurality strings is tuned to a different octave. 103. The method according to claim 99, wherein said key or said combination of keys provides said volume control based upon an amount of pressure applied to said key or said combination of keys. 104. The method according to claim 99, wherein each key of said plurality of keys is displaceable within a key travel range, wherein said volume control varies depending upon location within said key travel range that said key is positioned. 105. The method according to claim 104, wherein a combination of said plurality of keys simultaneously and independently provide said volume control of strings associated with each said combination of said plurality of keys. 106. The method according to claim 96, wherein vibration of a string of said array of strings is induced by strumming. 107. The method according to claim 99, wherein vibration of a string of said array of strings is mechanically induced sympathetic vibration. 108. The method according to claim 99, wherein vibration of a string of said array of strings is induced by at least one electrical drive transducer. 109. The method according to claim 96, said method further comprising: varying the operation of a selected key or combination of keys of said plurality of keys to vary the spectral quality of the ambient effect produced by one or more strings of said array of strings. 110. The method according to claim 96, said method further comprising: coupling a strumpad comprising a plurality of touch switches with said keyboard, wherein each touch switch of said plurality of touch switches generates a touch switch signal in response to user contact. 111. The method according to claim 110, wherein said keyboard further controls note assignments of synthesized notes generated in response to said touch switch signals. 112. The method according to claim 110, wherein said keyboard further controls amplitudes of synthesized notes generated in response to said touch switch signals. 113. The method according to claim 96, wherein each key of said plurality of keys includes a null-contact touch-pad formed on a surface of said key. 114. The method according to claim 96, wherein each key of said plurality of keys responsively generate an outgoing control signal comprising a signal of MIDI note event format. 115. The method according to claim 96, wherein a selected key or combination of keys determine which string of said array of strings responsively generate outgoing control signals comprising a signal of MIDI note event format. 116. A system for controlling the volume of individual strings of a string instrument, said system comprising: a tuned array of strings, wherein each string of said array of strings is adapted to be vibrated by an external stimulus; a dedicated vibration-sensing transducer coupled with each string of said array of strings, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of an associated string of said array of strings; a plurality of volume control elements associated with at least one string of said array of strings, wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements provides volume control of an associated one or more strings of said array of strings, wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements is controlled by an associated incoming volume control signal; and an audio interface providing an output audio signal responsive to each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements. 117. The system according to claim 116, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a chord button. 118. The system according to claim 116, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a foot switch. 119. The system according to claim 116, wherein said incoming volume control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 120. A method for controlling the volume of individual strings of a string instrument, said method comprising: vibrating one or more strings of a tuned array of strings, wherein said vibrating is accomplished by external stimulus; coupling a dedicated vibration-sensing transducer with each string of said array of strings, wherein each transducer of said plurality of vibration-sensing transducers generates an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of an associated string of said array of strings; providing volume control using a plurality of volume control elements associated with at least one string of said array of strings, wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements provides volume control of an associated one or more strings of said array of strings, wherein each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements is controlled by an associated incoming volume control signal; and providing an output audio signal responsive to each volume control element of said plurality of volume control elements. 121. The method according to claim 120, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a chord button. 122. The method according to claim 120, wherein said incoming volume control signal is generated by a foot switch. 123. The method according to claim 120, wherein said incoming volume control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 124. The system according to claim 76, further comprising: a vibration-sensing transducer coupled with at least one string of said array of strings, said vibration-sensing transducer generating an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of said at least one string coupled to said vibration-sensing transducer; and a pitch shifting signal processor adapted to receive and process said electrical signal generated by said vibration-sensing transducer. 125. The system according to claim 124, wherein said processing is performed by said pitch shifting signal processor prior to the providing of said volume control of said at least one string of said array of strings. 126. The system according to claim 124, wherein at least one string coupled with said vibration-sensing transducer is not associated with said volume control element. 127. The system according to claim 124, wherein a varying degree of pitch shift provided by said pitch shifting signal processor is selectable by a user while playing said string instrument. 128. The system according to claim 124, wherein said volume control element is associated with all strings of said array of strings, wherein a selected key or combination of keys of said plurality of keys provide volume control for said all strings of said array of strings. 129. The system according to claim 76, wherein said chord controller is a melodic keyboard. 130. The system according to claim 76, wherein said chord controller includes an array of push buttons; and wherein a selected button or combination of buttons of said array of push buttons provide said volume control for said plurality of strings of said array of strings. 131. The system according to claim 76, wherein said chord controller includes an array of foot switches; and wherein a selected foot switch or combination of foot switches of said array of foot switchers provide said volume control for said plurality of strings of said array of strings. 132. The method according to claim 96, further comprising: coupling a vibration-sensing transducer with at least one string of said array of strings; generating an electrical signal responsive to vibrations of said at least one string coupled to said vibration-sensing transducer; and processing said electrical signal. 133. The method according to claim 132, wherein said processing is performed prior to the providing of said volume control for said at least one string of said array of strings. 134. The method according to claim 124, wherein at least one string coupled with said vibration-sensing transducer is not associated with said volume control element. 135. The method according to claim 124, wherein a varying degree of pitch shift provided by said pitch shifting signal processor is selectable by a user while playing said string instrument. 136. The method according to claim 132, wherein said volume control element is associated with all strings of said array of strings, and wherein a selected key or combination of keys of said plurality of keys provide volume control for said all strings of said array of strings. 137. The method according to claim 96, wherein said chord controller is a melodic keyboard. 138. The method according to claim 96, further comprising: configuring said chord controller with an array of push buttons, wherein a selected button or combination of buttons of said array of push buttons provide said volume control for said plurality of strings of said array of strings. 139. The method according to claim 96, further comprising: configuring said chord controller with an array of foot switches, wherein a selected foot switch or combination of foot switches of said array of foot switchers provide said volume control for said plurality of strings of said array of strings. 