A robot arm assembly includes a support member, a first rotating member rotatably connected to the support member, a second rotating member rotatably connected to the first rotating member, and a driving mechanism to drive the first rotating member. The driving mechanism includes a gear transmission mechanism directly coupled to the first rotating member, a driver mounted on the support member and provided with an output shaft coupled to the gear transmission mechanism, and a support mechanism supporting the gear transmission mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot arm assembly comprising: a support member; a first rotating member rotatably connected to the support member; a second rotating member rotatably connected to the first rotating member; and a driving mechanism to drive the first rotating member, wherein the driving mechanism comprises a gear transmission mechanism directly coupled to the first rotating member, a driver mounted on the support member and provided with an output shaft coupled to the gear transmission mechanism, and a support mechanism supporting the gear transmission mechanism wherein the support mechanism comprises a first support member and a second support member fixed to the first support member and cooperatively define a receiving portion to partially receive the gear transmission mechanism, the first support member comprises a bottom plate connected to the second support member and a plurality of support portions extending from an edge of the bottom plate, and the second support member is positioned on the support portions, the second support member is parallel to the bottom plate; the gear transmission mechanism comprises a first gear shaft rotatably positioned between the first support member and the second support member, and a second gear shaft parallel to the first gear shaft and rotatably positioned between the first support member and the second support member. 2. The robot arm assembly of claim 1, wherein the gear transmission mechanism further comprises a first driving gear coupled to the driver, a first driven gear meshed with the first driving gear and sleeved on the first gear shaft, a second driving gear sleeved on the first gear shaft and coaxial to the first driven gear, a second driven gear meshed with the second driving gear and sleeved on the second gear shaft, a third driving gear sleeved on the second gear shaft and coaxial to the second driven gear, and a third driven gear meshed with the third driving gear and coupled to the first rotating member. 3. The robot arm assembly of claim 1, wherein the first support member and the second support member define a plurality of holes therein to receive corresponding ends of the first gear shaft and the second gear shaft. 4. The robot arm assembly of claim 1, wherein the support member comprises a main body defining a hollow portion to receive the driver, and a housing connected to a side of the main body to receive the driving mechanism. 5. The robot arm assembly of claim 4, wherein the main body is includes a connection base, a first prong and a second prong parallel to the first prong, the first prong and the second prong extend from opposite sides of the connection base; the first prong and the second prong cooperatively define a receiving portion therebetween to receive the first rotating member. 6. The robot arm assembly of claim 5, wherein the driver is received in the connection base, and the support mechanism is connected to the first prong. 7. The robot arm assembly of claim 5, wherein the first rotating member comprises a rotation body connected to the second rotating member and a connection shaft coupled to the driving mechanism. 8. The robot arm assembly of claim 7, wherein opposite sides of the rotation body are rotatably connected to the first prong and the second prong of the support member, respectively. 9. A robot comprising: a support member; a first rotating member rotatably connected to the support member; a second rotating member rotatably connected to the first rotating member, the second rotating member being mounted on a distal end of the robot; and a driving mechanism to drive the first rotating member, wherein the driving mechanism comprises a gear transmission mechanism directly connected to the first rotating member, a driver mounted on the support member and provided with an output shaft connected to the gear transmission mechanism, and a support mechanism supporting the gear transmission mechanism; wherein the support mechanism comprises a first support member and a second support member fixed to the first support member and cooperatively define a receiving portion to partially receive the gear transmission mechanism, the first support member comprises a bottom plate connected to the second support member and a plurality of support portions extending from an edge of the bottom plate, and the second support member is positioned on the support portions, the second support member is parallel to the bottom plate; the gear transmission mechanism comprises a first gear shaft rotatably positioned between the first support member and the second support member, and a second gear shaft parallel to the first gear shaft and rotatably positioned between the first support member and the second support member. 10. The robot arm assembly of claim 9, wherein the gear transmission mechanism further comprises a first driving gear coupled to the driver, a first driven gear meshed with the first driving gear and sleeved on the first gear shaft, a second driving gear sleeved on the first gear shaft and coaxial to the first driven gear, a second driven gear meshed with the second driving gear and sleeved on the second gear shaft, a third driving gear sleeved on the second gear shaft and coaxial to the second driven gear, and a third driven gear meshed with the third driving gear and coupled to the first rotating member. 11. The robot of claim 9, wherein the first support member and the second support member define a plurality of holes therein to receive corresponding ends of the first gear shaft and the second gear shaft. 12. The robot of claim 9, wherein the support member comprises a main body defining a hollow portion to receive the driver and a housing connected to one side of the main body to partially receive the gear transmission. 