The present invention provides luminescent lanthanide metal chelates comprising a metal ion of the lanthanide series and a complexing agent comprising at least one salicylamidyl moiety. Also provided are probes incorporating the salicylamidyl ligands of the invention and methods utilizing the ligands of the invention and probes comprising the ligands of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A luminescent complex formed between a lanthanide ion and a compound having a structure according to Formula I: ##STR00013## wherein, R.sup.1 and R.sup.2 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted alkyl, polyether, substituted polyether, halogen and --OR.sup.6, wherein R.sup.6 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl groups, polyether, substituted polyether, and a single negative charge; R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.7, R.sup.10 and R.sup.20 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, polyether, substituted polyether, alkyl and substituted alkyl groups; R.sup.3, R.sup.6 and R.sup.9 are members independently selected from the group consisting of polyether, substituted polyether, alkyl and substituted alkyl groups; R.sup.11, R.sup.12, R.sup.13, R.sup.21, R.sup.22 and R.sup.23 are members independently selected from alkyl, substituted alkyl, H, --NR.sup.14R.sup.15, --NO.sub.2, --OR.sup.16, --COOR.sup.17, wherein, R.sup.14, R.sup.15, R.sup.16 and R.sup.17 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl, wherein R.sup.12 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.11, R.sup.13 or both, and R.sup.22 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.21, R.sup.23 or both, said rings being members independently selected from the group of ring systems consisting of cyclic alkyl, substituted cyclic alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, heterocyclyl and substituted heterocyclyl ring systems; and Q.sup.1 is --OR.sup.18; Q.sup.2 is --OR.sup.19, wherein R.sup.18 and R.sup.19 are members independently selected from H, an enzymatically labile group, a hydrolytically labile group and a single negative charge; and a and z are independently selected from the group consisting of 0 and 1, with the proviso that when a is 0, N.sup.1' is covalently attached directly to carbonyl 1', and when z is 0, N.sup.2' is covalently attached directly to carbonyl group 2'. 2. The complex according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, and R.sup.9 are members independently selected from the group consisting of C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl and C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 substituted alkyl. 3. The complex according to claim 2, wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, and R.sup.9 are members independently selected from the group consisting of C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl and C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 substituted alkyl. 4. The complex according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, and R.sup.9 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl substituted with aryl, alkyl substituted with substituted aryl and combinations thereof. 5. The complex according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, and R.sup.9 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl substituted with a polycyclic aryl group. 6. The complex according to claim 1, wherein a member selected from the group consisting of R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, R.sup.9, R.sup.10 and R.sup.20 and combinations thereof is a primary alkyl amine. 7. The complex according to claim 6, wherein said primary alkyl amine is a C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl chain bearing an amine moiety at the .omega.-position. 8. The complex according to claim 7, wherein said primary alkyl amine is a C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl chain bearing an amine moiety at the .omega.-position. 9. The complex according to claim 1, wherein a member selected from the group consisting of R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, R.sup.9, R.sup.10 and R.sup.20 and combinations thereof is a polyether. 10. The complex according to claim 9, wherein said polyether is a member selected from ethylene glycol, ethylene glycol oligomers and combinations thereof, wherein said polyether has a molecular weight of from about 60 daltons to about 10,000 daltons. 11. The complex according to claim 10, wherein said polyether has a molecular weight of from about 100 daltons to about 1,000 daltons. 12. The complex according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.1, R.sup.2, R.sup.3, R.sup.4, R.sup.5, R.sup.6, R.sup.8, R.sup.9, R.sup.10 and R.sup.20 and combinations thereof are members selected from .omega.-carboxyl alkyl groups, .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl groups and combinations thereof. 13. The complex according to claim 12, wherein said .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl group has a structure according to Formula II: ##STR00014## wherein, X is a member selected from O, S and NR.sup.50, wherein R.sup.50 is a member selected from H, alkyl and substituted alkyl; Y is a member selected from H and a single negative charge; and j and k are members independently selected from the group consisting of integers from 1 to 18. 14. The complex according to claim 13, wherein said .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl group has a structure according to Formula III: ##STR00015## 15. The complex according to claim 1, wherein both a and z are 0. 16. The complex according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.3 is a linear C.sub.1 C.sub.6 hydrocarbon. 17. The complex according to claim 1, wherein z is 0. 18. The complex according to claim 17, wherein R.sup.8 is (CH.sub.2).sub.P; R.sup.4 is an alkyl group substituted with a moiety having a structure according to Formula IV: ##STR00016## wherein, R.sup.29 is a member selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted alkyl, halogen, polyether, substituted polyether, and --OR.sup.7, wherein R.sup.7is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl groups and a single negative charge; R.sup.46 is a member selected from polyether, substituted polyether, alkyl and substituted alkyl; R.sup.31, R.sup.32 and R.sup.33 are members independently selected from alkyl, substituted alkyl, H, --NR.sup.24R.sup.25, --NO.sub.2, --OR.sup.26, --COOR.sup.27, wherein R.sup.24, R.sup.25, R.sup.26 and R.sup.27 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl, wherein R.sup.32 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.31, R.sup.33 or both, said rings being members independently selected from the group of ring systems consisting of cyclic alkyl, substituted cyclic alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, heterocyclyl and saturated heterocyclyl ring systems; R.sup.3 is (CH.sub.2).sub.X; Q.sup.3 is --OR.sup.28, wherein R.sup.28 is a member selected from H, an enzymatically labile group, a hydrolytically labile group and a single negative charge; P and X are members independently selected from the group consisting of the integers from 1 to 5, inclusive. 19. The complex according to claim 18, having a structure according to Formula V: ##STR00017## 20. The complex according to claim 18, wherein R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 are members independently selected from the group consisting of C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl and C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 substituted alkyl. 21. The complex according to claim 20, wherein R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 are members independently selected from the group consisting of C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl and C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 substituted alkyl. 22. The complex according to claim 18, wherein R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl substituted with aryl, alkyl substituted with substituted aryl and combinations thereof. 23. The complex according to claim 18, wherein R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl substituted with a polycyclic aryl group. 24. The complex according to claim 18, wherein a member selected from the group consisting of R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 and combinations thereof is a primary alkyl amine. 25. The complex according to claim 24, wherein said primary alkyl amine as a C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl chain bearing an amine moiety at the .omega.-position. 26. The complex according to claim 25, wherein said primary alkyl amine as a C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl chain bearing an amine moiety at the .omega.-position. 27. The complex according to claim 18, wherein a member selected from the group consisting of R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 and combinations thereof is a polyether. 28. The complex according to claim 27, wherein said polyether is a member selected from ethylene glycol, ethylene glycol oligomers and combinations thereof, wherein said polyether has a molecular weight of from about 60 daltons to about 10,000 daltons. 29. The complex according to claim 28, wherein said polyether has a molecular weight of from about 100 daltons to about 1,000 daltons. 30. The complex according to claim 18, wherein R.sup.29 and R.sup.46 and combinations thereof are members selected from .omega.-carboxyl alkyl groups, .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl groups and combinations thereof. 31. The complex according to claim 30, wherein said .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl group has a structure according to Formula II: ##STR00018## wherein, X is a member selected from O, S and NR.sup.50, wherein R.sup.50 is a member selected from H, alkyl and substituted alkyl; Y is a member selected from H and a single negative charge; and j and k are member, independently selected from the group consisting of integers from 1 to 18. 32. The complex according to claim 31, wherein said .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl group has a structure according to Formula III: ##STR00019## 33. The complex according to claim 1, wherein R.sup.4 is an alkyl group substituted with a group having a structure according to Formula IV; ##STR00020## wherein, R.sup.29 is a member selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted alkyl, halogen and --OR.sup.7, wherein R.sup.7 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl groups and a single negative charge; R.sup.46 is a member selected from alkyl and substituted alkyl, R.sup.31, R.sup.32 and R.sup.33 are members independently selected from alkyl, substituted alkyl, H, --NR.sup.24R.sup.25, --NO.sub.2, --OR.sup.26, --COOR.sup.27, wherein, R.sup.24, R.sup.25, R.sup.26 and R.sup.27 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl, wherein R.sup.32 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.31, R.sup.33 or both, said rings being members independently selected from the group of ring systems consisting of cyclic alkyl, substituted cyclic alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, heterocyclyl and saturated heterocyclyl ring systems; Q.sup.3 is --OR.sup.28, wherein R.sup.28 is a member selected from H, an enzymatically labile group, a hydrolytically labile group and a single negative charge; R.sup.5 is an alkyl group substituted with a moiety having a structure according to Formula VI: ##STR00021## wherein, R.sup.39 is a member selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted alkyl, polyether, substituted polyether, halogen and --OR.sup.7, wherein R.sup.7 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl groups and a single negative charge; R.sup.45 is a member selected from polyether, substituted polyether, alkyl and substituted alkyl; R.sup.41, R.sup.42 and R.sup.43 are members independently selected from alkyl, substituted alkyl, H, --NR.sup.34R.sup.35, --NO.sub.2, --OR.sup.36, --COOR.sup.37, wherein R.sup.34, R.sup.35, R.sup.36 and R.sup.37 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl, wherein R.sup.42 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.41, R.sup.43 or both, said rings being members independently selected from the group of ring systems consisting of cyclic alkyl, substituted cyclic alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, heterocyclyl and saturated heterocyclyl ring systems. 34. A complex according to claim 33, having a structure according to Formula VII: ##STR00022## wherein, M, N, P and Z are members independently selected from the group consisting of the integers between 1 and 5, inclusive. 35. The complex according to claim 33, wherein R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 are members independently selected from the group consisting of C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl and C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 substituted alkyl. 36. The complex according to claim 35, wherein R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 are members independently selected from the group consisting of C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl and C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 substituted alkyl. 37. The complex according to claim 33, wherein R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl substituted with aryl, alkyl substituted with substituted aryl and combinations thereof. 38. The complex according to claim 33, wherein R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 are members independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl substituted with a polycyclic aryl group. 39. The complex according to claim 33, wherein a member selected from the group consisting of R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 and combinations thereof is a primary alkyl amine. 40. The complex according to claim 33, wherein said primary alkyl amine as a C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl chain bearing an amine moiety at the .omega.-position. 41. The complex according to claim 40, wherein said primary alkyl amine as a C.sub.2 to C.sub.6 alkyl chain bearing an amine moiety at the .omega.-position. 42. The complex according to claim 33, wherein a member selected from the group consisting of R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 and combinations thereof is a polyether. 43. The complex according to claim 42, wherein said polyether is a member selected from ethylene glycol, ethylene glycol oligomers and combinations thereof wherein said polyether has a molecular weight of from about 60 dalton, to about 10,000 daltons. 44. The complex according to claim 42, wherein said polyether has a molecular weight of from about 100 daltons to about 1,000 daltons. 45. The complex according to claim 33, wherein R.sup.39 and R.sup.45 and combinations thereof are members selected from .omega.-carboxyl alkyl groups, .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl groups and combinations thereof. 46. The complex according to claim 45, wherein said .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl group has a structure according to Formula II: ##STR00023## wherein, X is a member selected from O, S and NR.sup.50, wherein R.sup.50 is a member selected from H, alkyl and substituted alkyl; Y is a member selected from H and a single negative charge; and j an k are members independently selected from the group consisting of integers from 1 to 18. 47. The complex according to claim 46, wherein said .omega.-carboxyl substituted alkyl group has a structure according to Formula III: ##STR00024## 48. A complex according to claim 33, having a structure according to Formula VIII: ##STR00025## 49. The complex according to claim 1, in which R.sup.3 comprises a component of a dendrimer. 50. The complex according to claim 49, having a structure according to Formula IX: ##STR00026## wherein, D is a dendrimer; and w is a member selected from the group consisting of the integers from 4 to 100, inclusive. 51. The complex according to claim 50, wherein said dendrimer is a poly(propyleneimine) dendrimer. 52. The complex according to claim 49, wherein said dendrimer is of a generation selected from the group consisting of generation 2 to generation 10, inclusive. 53. The complex according to claim 50, wherein w is a member selected from the group consisting of the integers between 8 and 50, inclusive. 54. The complex according to claim 1, wherein said compound is covalently attached to a carrier molecule. 55. The complex according to claim 54, wherein said carrier is molecule is a member selected from the group consisting of synthetic polymers and biomolecules. 56. The complex according to claim 55, wherein said biomolecule is a member selected from the group consisting of antibodies, antigens, peptides, nucleic acids, enzymes, haptens, carbohydrates and pharmacologically active agents. 57. The complex according to claim 1, wherein said luminescence is circularly polarized luminescence. 58. The complex according to claim 1, wherein said luminescence is produced by electrochemical excitation of said complex. 59. The complex according to claim 1, wherein said lanthanide ion is a member selected from the group consisting of terbium, samarium, europium, dysprosium and neodymium. 60. A microarray comprising a complex according to claim 1, wherein said complex is conjugated directly to a solid support or to a carrier molecule attached to said solid support. 61. The microarray according to claim 60, wherein said carrier molecule is a member selected from a nucleic acid, a peptide, a peptide nucleic acid and combinations thereof. 62. The microarray according to claim 60, wherein said solid support is divided into a first region and a second region, said first region having attached thereto a first said complex attached to a first carrier molecule and said second region having attached thereto a second said complex attached to a second carrier molecule. 63. The microarray according to claim 62, wherein said first and second carrier molecules are members independently selected from nucleic acids, peptides and peptide nucleic acids. 64. The microarray according to claim 62, wherein said first complex and said second complex have different structures. 65. The complex according to claim 1, wherein said compound is a component of an ink or a dye. 66. The complex according to claim 1, wherein said compound is a component of a substrate for the transmission and amplification of light. 67. The complex according to claim 66, wherein said substrate comprises a member selected from glass, organic polymers, inorganic polymers and combinations thereof. 68. A method for determining whether a sample contains an enzyme, said method comprising: (a) contacting said sample with a peptide construct comprising: i) a complex according to claim 1; ii) a quencher of light energy having an absorbance band overlapping an emission band of said complex; and iii) a cleavage recognition site for said enzyme, wherein said peptide is in a conformation allowing fluorescence energy transfer between said complex and said quencher when said complex is excited; (b) exciting said complex; and (c) determining a fluorescence property of said sample, wherein the presence of said enzyme in said sample results in a change in said fluorescence property. 69. A method for determining whether a compound alters an activity of an enzyme, said method comprising: (a) contacting a sample comprising said enzyme and said compound with a peptide construct comprising i) a complex according to claim 1; ii) a quencher of light energy having an absorbance band overlapping an emission band of said complex; and iii) a cleavage recognition site for said enzyme, wherein said peptide is in a combination allowing fluorescence energy transfer between said complex and said quencher when said complex is excited; (b) exciting said complex; and (c) determining a fluorescence property of said sample, wherein said activity of said enzyme in said sample results in a change in said fluorescence property. 70. A method for detecting a nucleic acid target sequence, said method comprising: (a) contacting said target sequence with a detector oligonucleotide comprising a single-stranded target binding sequence, said detector oligonucleotide having linked thereto, i) a complex according to claim 1; ii) a quencher of light energy having an absorbance band overlapping an emission band of said complex, wherein said detector nucleic acid is in a conformation allowing fluorescence energy transfer between said complex and said quencher when said complex is excited; (b) hybridizing said target binding sequence to said target sequence, thereby altering said conformation of said detector oligonucleotide, causing a change in a fluorescence parameter; and (c) detecting said change in said fluorescence parameter, thereby detecting said nucleic acid target sequence. 71. The method according to claim 70, wherein said detector oligonucleotide has a format selected from molecular beacons, scorpion probes, sunrise probes, light up probes and TaqMan.TM. probes. 72. A method for detecting the presence of a nucleic acid target sequence, said method comprising: (a) hybridizing to said target sequence a detector oligonucleotide comprising a single-stranded target binding sequence and an intramolecularly associated secondary structure 5' to said target binding sequence, wherein at least a portion of the target sequence forms a single stranded tail which is available for hybridization to said target sequence, said detector oligonucleotide having linked thereto, i) a complex according to claim 1; ii) a quencher of light energy having an absorbance band overlapping an emission band of said complex, wherein said detector nucleic acid is in a conformation allowing fluorescence energy transfer between said complex and said quencher when said complex is excited; (b) in a primer extension reaction, synthesizing a complementary strand using said intramolecularly associated secondary structure as a template, thereby dissociating said intramolecularly associated secondary structure and producing a change in a fluorescence parameter; (c) detecting said change in said fluorescence parameter, thereby detecting said nucleic acid target sequence. 73. The method according to claim 72, wherein said intramolecularly associated secondary structure is a member selected from hairpins, stem-loop structures, pseudoknots, triple helices and conformationally assisted structures. 74. The method according to claim 72, wherein said complementary strand is synthesized in a target amplification reaction. 75. The method according to claim 72, wherein said complementary strand is synthesized by extension of the target sequence using said detector oligonucleotide ass template. 76. The method according to claim 72, wherein the intramolecularly associated secondary structure comprises a totally or partially single-stranded endonuclease recognition site. 77. The method according to claim 72, wherein said change in fluorescence parameter is detected as an indication of the presence of said target sequence. 78. The method according to claim 72, wherein said fluorescence parameter is detected in-real time. 79. The method according to claim 72, wherein said intramolecularly associated secondary structure comprises a portion of said target binding sequence. 80. A method for detecting amplification of a target sequence comprising, in an amplification reaction: (a) hybridizing to said target sequence a detector oligonucleotide comprising a single-stranded target binding sequence and an intramolecularly associated secondary structure 5' to said target binding sequence, wherein at least a portion of said target sequence forms a single stranded tail which is available for hybridization to said target sequence, said detector oligonucleotide having linked thereto, i) a complex according to claim 1; ii) a quencher of light energy having an absorbance band overlapping an emission band of said complex, wherein said detector nucleic acid is in a conformation allowing fluorescence energy transfer between said complex and said quencher when said complex is excited; (b) extending said hybridized detector oligonucleotide on said target sequence with a polymerase to produce a detector oligonucleotide extension product and separating said detector oligonucleotide extension product from said target sequence; (c) hybridizing a primer to said detector oligonucleotide extension product and extending the primer with said polymerase, thereby linearizing said intramolecularly associated secondary structure and producing a change in a fluorescence parameter; and (d) detecting said change in said fluorescence parameter, thereby detecting said target sequence. 81. The method according to claim 80, wherein said target sequence is amplified by a method selected from Strand Displacement Amplification, Polymerase Chain Reaction 3SR, TMA and NASBA. 82. The method according to claim 80, wherein said secondary structure further comprises a partially or entirely single-stranded restriction endonuclease site. 83. The method according to claim 80, wherein a change in fluorescence intensity is detected. 84. The method according to claim 80, wherein said change in fluorescence intensity is detected in real-time. 85. The method according to claim 80, wherein said intramolecularly base-paired secondary structure comprises a portion of said target binding sequence. 86. A method of ascertaining whether a first nucleic acid and a second nucleic acid hybridize, said first nucleic acid comprising a complex according to claim 1, said method comprising: (a) contacting said first nucleic acid with said second nucleic acid; (b) detecting an alteration in a fluorescent property of a member selected from said first nucleic acid, said second nucleic acid and a combination thereof, thereby ascertaining whether said hybridization occurs. 87. The method according to claim 86, wherein said second nucleic acid comprises a quencher of light energy covalently attached thereto. 88. A method for amplifying light transmitted by a substrate, said method comprising transmitting light through a substrate according to claim 66, thereby amplifying said light. 89. A method of performing a fluorescence assay of an analyte, said method comprising: (a) displacing with said analyte a binding partner from a binding partner-recognition moiety complex, thereby forming an analyte-recognition moiety complex and a free binding partner, said binding partner and said free binding partner comprising a compound according to claim 1; (b) forming a fluorescent complex between a lanthanide ion and a member selected from the group consisting of said binding partner, said free binding partner and combinations thereof; and (c) detecting said fluorescent complex. 90. The method according to claim 89, wherein said recognition moiety, said binding partner and said analyte are members independently selected from the group consisting of bioactive materials, biomolecules and combinations thereof. 91. The material according to claim 90, wherein said biomolecule is a member selected from the group consisting of haptens, antibodies, antigens, carbohydrates, nucleic acids, peptides, enzymes and receptors. 92. The method according to claim 89, wherein one or more members selected from the group consisting of said recognition moiety, said binding partner and said analyte are attached to a surface. 93. The method according to claim 89, wherein said fluorescent complex is formed prior to displacing said binding partner from said binding partner-recognition moiety complex. 94. The method according to claim 89, wherein said fluorescent complex is formed after displacing said binding partner from said binding partner-recognition moiety complex. 95. The method according to claim 89, further comprising, separating said free binding partner from a member of the group consisting of said recognition-binding partner pair, said analyte-recognition moiety pair and combinations thereof. 96. The method according to claim 95, wherein said fluorescent complex is formed following said separation. 97. A method of probing a microarray for the presence of a compound, said method comprising: (a) contacting said microarray with a probe interacting with said compound, said probe comprising a complex according to claim 1; (b) detecting a difference in a fluorescence property of a member selected from said probe, said compound and combinations thereof, thereby ascertaining the presence of said compound. 98. The method according to claim 97, wherein said compound is a member selected from a nucleic acid, a peptide, a peptide nucleic acid and combinations thereof. 