A dry-in/dry-out system is disclosed for wafer electroless plating. The system includes an upper zone for wafer ingress/egress and drying operations. Proximity heads are provided in the upper zone to perform the drying operations. The system also includes a lower zone for electroless plating operations. The lower zone includes an electroless plating apparatus that implements a wafer submersion by fluid upwelling method. The upper and lower zones of the system are enclosed by a dual-walled chamber, wherein the inner wall is a chemically inert plastic and the outer wall is a structural metal. The system interfaces with a fluid handling system which provides the necessary chemistry supply and control for the system. The system is ambient controlled. Also, the system interfaces with an ambient controlled managed transfer module (MTM).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system, comprising: receiving a wafer in a dry state within an upper region of a chamber volume; performing an electroless plating process on the wafer within a lower region of the chamber volume below the upper region of the chamber volume; performing a rinsing process on the wafer within the lower region of the chamber volume; performing a drying process on the wafer within the upper region of the chamber volume above the lower region of the chamber volume; and providing the wafer in a dry state from the upper region of the chamber volume. 2. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein performing the electroless plating process on the wafer within the chamber volume includes, supporting the wafer in a fluid bowl, filling the fluid bowl with electroless plating solution so that the electroless plating solution rises up and over a periphery of the wafer so as to cover a top surface of the wafer, and draining the electroless plating solution from the top surface of the wafer following an electroless plating reaction period. 3. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the rinsing process is performed on the wafer promptly after completion of the electroless plating process by dispensing a rinsing fluid onto a top surface of the wafer. 4. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the drying process is performed on a top surface of the wafer by scanning an upper proximity head over the top surface of the wafer so as to subject the top surface of the wafer to a first dynamic liquid meniscus, and wherein the drying process is performed on a bottom surface of the wafer by scanning a lower proximity head over the bottom surface of the wafer so as to subject the bottom surface of the wafer to a second dynamic liquid meniscus. 5. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: controlling an ambient condition within the chamber volume so as to minimize an oxygen content within the chamber volume. 6. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: controlling a vapor pressure within the chamber to be at a saturated state relative to an electroless plating solution to be applied over the wafer. 7. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: placing the wafer on a platen upon receiving the wafer in the dry state within the upper region of the chamber volume; moving the platen vertically downward from the upper region of the chamber volume to the lower region of the chamber volume to perform the electroless plating process and rinsing process on the wafer within the lower region of the chamber volume; and moving the platen vertically upward from the lower region of the chamber volume to the upper region of the chamber volume to perform the drying process on the wafer within the upper region of the chamber volume. 8. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: prior to performing the drying process on the wafer, positioning the wafer within the upper region of the chamber volume to be engaged by a drive roller assembly and a stabilizer assembly; moving the stabilizer assembly to engage the wafer such that the wafer is engaged by both the drive roller assembly and the stabilizer assembly; and maintaining engagement of the wafer by both the drive roller assembly and the stabilizer assembly during performance of the drying process on the wafer within the upper region of the chamber volume. 9. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 4, further comprising: maintaining the upper proximity head at a position directly above the lower proximity head during the drying process. 10. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 7, further comprising: heating the platen in a controlled manner so as to enable control of a temperature of the wafer when present on the platen. 11. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 7, further comprising: applying a suction pressure through a number of vacuum channels within the platen to vacuum chuck the wafer to the platen. 12. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 8, wherein the stabilizer assembly includes a stabilizer roller defined to engage an edge of the wafer and apply pressure to the edge of the wafer so as to hold the edge of the wafer in the drive roller. 13. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 8, wherein the drive roller assembly includes a drive roller defined to engage an edge of the wafer and rotate the wafer. 14. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 8, further comprising: maintaining the wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation when the wafer is engaged by both the drive roller assembly and the stabilizer assembly. 15. A method for operating a semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 13, further comprising: operating the drive roller assembly to rotate the wafer. 