A gap welding process (10) for manipulating a movable robotic welder (30) for making a weld between two or more substantially immovable work pieces (51) using a higher level programming language (20). The gap welding process (10) performs a data transfer routine which takes spreadsheet data (18) representing expected variables, runs a data conversion program (20) that creates weld program data including point position, user frames (34 and 36), weld schedule, seam tracking schedule, weave schedule, azimuth orientation, travel speed, wait time, weave type and number of digital output control data. The gap welding process (10) also performs a gap-sensing routine (28) for actual weld gap measuring by using the robotic welder (30) to touch specific locations on pieces forming the gap or fixturing to produce weld variance data. The gap welding process (10) then uses a weld control program in conjunction with the weld program data (22), weld variance data (26), and feedback data (44) that is gathered during the welding process to determine and perform the correct manipulation required to produce torch movements to accurately weld the gap (32).
Claims In accordance with my invention, I claim: 1. A gap welding process for manipulating a movable robotic welder for making a weld between two or more substantially immovable work piece faces, the invention being operable as an intermediate step in conjunction with a gap-sensing routine for actual weld gap measuring by using the robotic welder to touch specific locations on pieces forming the gap or fixturing to produce weld variance data operably interfaced with a weld control program using weld variance data, and feedback data that is gathered during the welding process to determine and perform the correct manipulation required to produce torch movements to accurately weld the gap, the improvement comprising: using a high level programming language to generate weld program data; performing a data transfer routine which takes recorded data representing expected variables, runs a data conversion program that creates weld program data; processing said data transfer and exporting same as said weld program data, thence further usable in the robotic control program; said data including point position, user frames, weld schedule, seam tracking schedule, weave schedule, azimuth orientation, travel speed, wait time, weave type and number of digital output control data. 2. The weld program of claim 1 further comprising: said recorded data being recorded in the form of spreadsheet data. 3. The weld program of claim 2 further comprising: said weld program data contains variables in an X-Y-Z-W-P-R coordinate system. 4. The weld program of claim 2 further comprising: storing as spreadsheet data information needed to instruct a robotic welder; selecting spreadsheet data by performing one of the steps of choosing a preselected group of spreadsheets or creating a customized group by selecting individual spreadsheet data or substituting other spreadsheet data depending on the dimensions of the pieces to be welded. 5. The weld program of claim 4 further comprising: said data conversion being performed in the high level programming language Karel. 6. The weld program of claim 5 further comprising: said spreadsheet data representing prerecorded and measured variables for welding railroad rails. 