Apparatus and methods are disclosed for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of chemical compounds bound to the surfaces of the supports. In the apparatus, a mechanism for diffusively introducing pressurized gas into the apparatus is in fluid communication with an outlet element comprising a plurality of openings. A holding chamber for the supports is in fluid communication with the outlet element. The outlet element and the holding chamber are disposed such that gas flow through the chamber is substantially uniform and unidirectional. The holding chamber comprises an opening sufficient to permit movement of the supports to and from the holding chamber and comprises a plurality of holding elements for holding the supports.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of chemical compounds bound thereto at individual sites thereon, said apparatus comprising: (a) a mechanism for diffusively introducing pressurized gas into said apparatus, (b) an outlet element in fluid communication with said mechanism, said outlet element comprising a plurality of openings therein, (c) a holding chamber for said supports in fluid communication with said outlet element, said outlet element and said holding chamber and said supports being disposed such that gas flow through and out of said holding chamber is substantially unidirectional and substantially parallel to said supports, said holding chamber comprising an opening sufficient to permit movement of said supports to and from said holding chamber and comprising a plurality of holding elements for holding said supports, and (d) a flow-straightening element disposed in fluid communication between said outlet element and said holding chamber. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said mechanism comprises one or more gas inlets and a manifold comprising one or more compartments, each of said compartments being in fluid communication with one or more gas inlets. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said gas inlets are substantially perpendicular to the axis of said openings in said outlet element. 4. An apparatus for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of chemical compounds bound thereto at individual sites thereon, said apparatus comprising: (a) a mechanism for diffusively introducing pressurized gas into said apparatus, (b) an outlet element in fluid communication with said mechanism, said outlet element comprising a plurality of openings therein, and (c) a holding chamber for said supports in fluid communication with said outlet element, said outlet element and said holding chamber and said supports being disposed such that as flow through and out of said holding chamber is substantially unidirectional and substantially parallel to said supports, said holding chamber comprising an opening sufficient to permit movement of said supports to and from said holding chamber and comprising a plurality of holding elements for holding said supports, wherein said holding elements for said supports are adapted to hold said supports in a substantially vertical position. 5. An apparatus for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of biopolymers bound thereto at individual sites thereon, said apparatus comprising: (a) a manifold comprising one or more compartments, each of said compartments being in fluid communication with at least one gas inlet for introducing pressurized gas into said apparatus, wherein said gas inlets are positioned in said manifold such that gas is introduced into said manifold in a direction that is substantially normal to the direction of gas exiting said manifold, (b) an outlet element in fluid communication with said manifold, said outlet element comprising about 10 to about 50 openings per square inch, and (c) a holding chamber for said supports in fluid communication with said outlet element, said outlet element and said holding chamber and said supports being disposed such that gas flow through and out of said holding chamber is substantially unidirectional and substantially parallel to said supports, said holding chamber comprising an opening sufficient to permit movement of said supports to and from said holding chamber and comprising a plurality of holding elements for holding said supports. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein each of said gas inlets comprises a valve. 7. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said manifold is adapted for introduction of gas at a pressure of about 60 to about 80 psi. 8. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said outlet element is about 0.2 to about 2 inches thick. 9. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the diameter of each of said openings is about 0.03 to about 0.25 inches. 10. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said outlet element is about 0.02 to about 0.2 inches thick and said apparatus comprises a flow-straightening element disposed in fluid communication between said outlet element and said chamber. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said flow-straightening element is a honeycomb element. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the ratio of length of said honeycomb element to honeycomb features is at least about 7 to 1. 13. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the thickness of said honeycomb element is about 1 to about 1.5 inches. 14. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said gas inlets are substantially perpendicular to the axis of said openings in said outlet element. 15. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said holding elements for said supports are adapted to hold said supports in a substantially vertical position. 16. An apparatus for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of chemical compounds bound thereto at individual sites thereon, said apparatus comprising: (a) a mechanism for diffusively introducing pressurized gas into said apparatus, (b) an outlet element in fluid communication with said mechanism, said outlet element comprising a plurality of openings therein, (c) a holding chamber for said supports in fluid communication with said outlet element, said outlet element and said holding chamber being disposed such that gas flow therethrough is substantially uniform, said holding chamber comprising an opening sufficient to permit movement of said supports to and from said holding chamber and comprising a plurality of holding elements for holding said supports, and (d) a flow-straightening element disposed in fluid communication between said outlet element and said holding chamber. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said mechanism comprises one or more gas inlets and a manifold comprising one or more compartments, each of said compartments being in fluid communication with one or more gas inlets. 18. An apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said gas inlets are substantially perpendicular to the axis of said openings in said outlet element. 19. An apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said holding elements for said supports are adapted to hold said supports in a substantially vertical position. 20. An apparatus for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of biopolymers bound thereto at individual sites thereon, said apparatus comprising: (a) a manifold comprising one or more compartments, each of said compartments being in fluid communication with at least one gas inlet for introducing pressurized gas into said apparatus, wherein said gas inlets are positioned in said manifold such that gas is introduced into said manifold in a direction that is substantially normal to the direction of gas exiting said manifold and wherein each of said gas inlets comprises a valve, (b) an outlet element in fluid communication with said manifold, said outlet element comprising about 10 to about 50 openings per square inch, (c) a holding chamber for said supports in fluid communication with said outlet element, said outlet element and said holding chamber being disposed such that gas flow through and out of said holding chamber is substantially unidirectional and parallel to said supports, said holding chamber comprising an opening sufficient to permit movement of said supports to and from said holding chamber and comprising a plurality of holding elements for holding said supports, and (d) a flow-straightening element disposed in fluid communication between said outlet element and said chamber. 21. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said manifold is adapted for introduction of a gas at a pressure of about 60 to about 80 psi. 22. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said outlet element is about 0.2 to about 2 inches thick. 23. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the diameter of each of said openings is about 0.03 to about 0.25 inches. 24. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said outlet element is about 0.02 to about 0.2 inches thick and wherein said holding elements for said supports are adapted to hold said supports in a substantially vertical position. 25. An apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said flow-straightening element is a honeycomb element. 26. An apparatus according to claim 25 wherein the ratio of length of said honeycomb element to honeycomb features is at least about 7 to 1. 27. An apparatus according to claim 25 wherein the thickness of said honeycomb element is about 1 to about 1.5 inches. 28. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said gas inlets are substantially perpendicular to the axis of said openings in said outlet element. 29. An apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said holding elements for said supports are adapted to hold said supports in a substantially vertical position. 30. An apparatus for storing a plurality of supports having a plurality of biopolymers bound thereto at individual sites thereon, said apparatus comprising: (a) a manifold comprising one or more compartments, each of said compartments being in fluid communication with at least one gas inlet for introducing pressurized gas into said apparatus, wherein said gas inlets are positioned in said manifold such that gas is introduced into said manifold in a direction that is substantially normal to the direction of gas exiting said manifold, (b) an outlet element in fluid communication with said manifold, said outlet element comprising a plurality of openings therein, and (c) a holding chamber for said supports in fluid communication with said outlet element, said outlet element and said holding chamber being disposed such that gas flow therethrough is substantially unidirectional, said holding chamber comprising an opening sufficient to permit movement of said supports to and from said holding chamber and comprising a plurality of holding elements for holding said supports, and (d) a flow-straightening element disposed in fluid communication between said outlet element and said chamber. 31. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein each of said gas inlets comprises a valve. 32. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein said outlet element is about 0.2 to about 2 inches thick and comprises about 10 to about 50 openings per square inch. 33. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein the diameter of each of said openings is about 0.03 to about 0.25 inches. 34. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein said outlet element is about 0.02 to about 0.2 inches thick. 35. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein said flow-straightening element is a honeycomb element. 36. An apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the ratio of length of said honeycomb element to honeycomb features is at least about 7 to 1. 37. An apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the thickness of said honeycomb element is about 1 to about 1.5 inches. 38. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein said gas inlets are substantially perpendicular to the axis of said openings in said outlet element. 39. An apparatus according to claim 30 wherein said holding elements for said supports are adapted to hold said supports in a substantially vertical position. 