A numerically-controlled robotic manipulator arm mounted to a sod harvester comprises two segments pivotally coupled together. One segment is rotatably coupled to a fixed base on the harvester while the second segment carries a pick-up head which can turn with respect to the segment. The pick-up head is capable of picking up, holding, and releasing sod rolls. The arm is programmable so that a variety of configurations of stacked sod rolls can be achieved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cutting and stacking rolls of sod comprising: a wheeled chassis for traversing a sod field; a horizontal cutting mechanism for cutting a plurality of sod strips; an accumulator configured to hold the plurality of sod strips; a sod roller configured to roll the sod strips prior to transferring the sod to the accumulator; a conveyor configured to transfer sod from the cutting mechanism to the accumulator; a robotic arm configured to lift the plurality of sod strips from the accumulator to a sod storage location; and a controller configured to querying an operator for a predetermined sod stack configuration; the controller configured to set a first counter to a first initial condition indicative of a number of rolls of layers of sod; the controller configured to set a second counter to a second initial condition indicative of a number of rolls of sod per layer; the controller configured to set a third counter to a third initial condition indicative of a number of rolls of sod per row; if the first counter is less than an first initial condition, the controller is configured to perform the following: if the second counter is less than a second initial condition, the controller is configured to perform the following: if the third counter is less than an third initial condition, the controller is configured to perform the following: enable the horizontal cutting mechanism to cut a strip of sod, enable the sod roller to roll the sod, enable conveyance of the sod roll to an accumulator belt, enable indexing of the accumulator belt to receive another roll of sod, incrementing the third counter; instructing a robotic arm to pick up, a plurality of rolls of sod from the accumulator belt, instructing the robot arm to move the sod to a pallet, incrementing the second counter; incrementing the level of the pallet; and incrementing the first counter. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the accumulator is a segmented conveyor. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the accumulator comprises a retractable portion which allows an operator to return a rejected sod roll to the sod field. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 further comprising a ramp disposed below the retractable portion. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the robotic arm comprises a horizontal pick-up head having a plurality of gripper modules, each gripper module configured to engage a separate individual sod roll. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein each gripper module comprises a pair of engageable fingers, the engageable fingers being configured to be rotatably positioned to engage a roll of sod positioned in the accumulator. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the fingers are coupled to a gripper actuator, the gripper actuator having an extended position whereby the fingers are rotated into a position below a concave stripper. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the fingers are coupled so as to cause the fingers to engage the separate sod rolls simultaneously. 9. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the horizontal pick-up head has a separator mechanism configured to cause movement of at least one gripper module with respect to another gripper module. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a controller configured to regulate the movement of a robotic arm. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the robotic arm is hydraulically driven and the controller is configured to control at least one hydraulic valve. 12. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the controller is electronically coupled and configured to control the gripper modules. 13. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the controller is coupled to a plurality of actuators which are configured to keep the horizontal pick-up head horizontal. 14. The apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising a pair of forks configured to support a pallet in the sod storage location, said controller configured to control the movement of the forks from a first pallet location to a second pallet location. 15. A method of harvesting sod comprising the steps of: querying an operator for a predetermined sod stack configuration; setting a first counter to a first initial condition indicative of a number of rolls of layers of sod; setting a second counter to a second initial condition indicative of a number of rows of sod per layer; setting a third counter to a third initial condition indicative of a number of rolls of sod per row; if the first counter is less than an first initial condition, then performing the following: if the second counter is less than a second initial condition, the performing the following: if the third counter is less than an third initial condition, then performing the following: cutting a strip of sod, rolling the sod, conveying the sod roll to an accumulator belt, indexing the accumulator belt to receive another roll of sod, incrementing the third counter; instruct a robotic arm to pick up a plurality rolls of sod from the accumulator belt, instruct the robot arm to move the sod to a pallet, incrementing the second counter; incrementing the level of the pallet; and incrementing the first-counter. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the robotic arm is configured to simultaneously move the plurality of rolls of sod from an accumulator to a predetermined location on the pallet. 17. The method according to claim 15 further comprising a enabling a horizontal cutting mechanism to cut sod into strips. 18. The method according to claim 15 further comprising conveying the sod from the horizontal cutting mechanism to the accumulator. 19. The method according to claim 18 further comprising enabling a sod roller to roll sod strips. 20. The method according to claim 15 further including updating an operator display prior to incrementing the second counter. 21. The method according to claim 15 further including initiating a sequence to drop a full pallet on a field when the first counter is equal to the first condition. 