The invention relates to a system that consists of a plurality of sample plate carriers with resettable built-in memory devices and an information input/output station for the aforementioned memory devices. In the preferred embodiments, the aforementioned station comprises a storage cassette for the carrier, or an intermediate station through which the sample plate carrier is passed when it is handled by a robot arm. The cassette has an input/output port for selectively entering or extracting information into or from the memory unit. This information may relate to the specific sample plates or sample plate carriers that holds the memory element and may relate to positions of the carriers and events that occurred with the samples on the specific sample plates. Each sample plate carrier is provided with a locking mechanism for removably locking the sample plates in the carrier. The carriers have asymmetric shape for correct orientation of the carriers in the cells of the cassette and are provided with a number of features that facilitates interaction with grippers and actuators of various types for automatic loading/unloading of the sample plate carriers into/from the cassette and for transportation between the working stations.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system of sample plate carriers for handling with sample plate carrier handling means, said system comprising: a plurality of sample plate carriers, wherein each sample plate carrier of said plurality comprises: a carrier body having means for supporting at least one sample carrying plate with at least one sample; memory means built-in into said carrier body, said memory means having first memory input/output contacts for inputting/outputting information; engagement means provided on said carrier body for engagement with said sample plate carrier handling means; said engagement means having second inputting/outputting contacts; a central processing unit connected to said second input/output contacts and connectable to said first input/output contacts of said memory means when said engagement means engages said sample plate carrier handling means; a storage cassette that comprises a plurality of cells for insertion of said sample plate carriers, second input/output contacts being provided in each cell of said plurality of cells for electrical contact with said first input/output contacts of said carrier bodies when said carrier bodies are inserted into said cells; an inlet/outlet port on said storage cassette with a plurality of electrical terminals, each of said electrical terminals being electrically connected to respective second input/output contacts of a respective cell of said storage cassette wherein said sample plate carrier handling means comprises at least two different gripping mechanisms and wherein said engagement means of said carrier body comprises at least two sets of different openings for interaction with said at least two different gripping mechanisms. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein one set of said two sets of different openings are T-shaped openings and a plurality of openings arranged with a predetermined pattern, one of said two gripping mechanisms comprising a gripper having T-shaped projections insertable into said T-shaped openings and the other of said two gripping mechanisms is a sample-plate receiver/inserter having projections arranged with the same predetermined pattern as said plurality of openings and engageable with said plurality of openings for receiving/releasing said sample medium from sample medium carriers. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for supporting said at least one sample-carrying plate with at least one sample is a recess formed in said carrier body, said system being further provided with a removable protective shield insertable into said recess of said carrier body as an additional means for protecting said samples and said sample-carrying plate from contamination. 4. The system of claim 1, further provided with a lock for locking said sample plate in said carrier body. 