A substrate handling apparatus includes a transfer arm having a substrate support. The apparatus includes at least one image acquisition sensor configured to acquire images of a substrate supported by the substrate support. In addition, the apparatus includes a controller coupled to the image acquisition sensor and configured to control the image acquisition sensor to acquire at least one image of the substrate supported on the substrate support. The controller is further configured to receive the images acquired by the image acquisition sensor and to determine an initial position of the substrate based on the acquired images. The controller is further coupled to the substrate support to control movement thereof to move the substrate to a new position based on the substrate's initial position. The apparatus also can be used to determine a substrate identification and to detect certain substrate defects either before or after processing the substrate in a thermal processing chamber. A method of positioning a substrate on a transfer arm also is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate handling apparatus comprising: a transfer arm including a substrate support; at least one image acquisition sensor configured to acquire images of a substrate supported by the substrate support; and a controller coupled to the at least one-image acquisition sensor and configured to control the at least one image acquisition sensor to acquire the at least one image of at least two about orthogonal edges defining at least one corner of the substrate supported on the substrate support, wherein the controller is further configured to receive the at least one image acquired by the image acquisition sensor, and configured to apply a corner detection algorithm to the at least one acquired image to determine an initial position of the substrate, and wherein the controller is further coupled to the substrate support to control movement thereof to move the substrate to a new position based on the substrate's initial position. 2. The substrate handling apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one image acquisition sensor comprises an array of charge coupled devices. 3. The substrate handling apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to control horizontal translation of the substrate support to correct a misalignment of the of the substrate based on the substrate's initial position. 4. The substrate handling apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to control angular rotation of the substrate support to correct a misalignment of the substrate in response to determining the substrate's initial position. 5. The substrate handling apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a light source to enhance a quality of images acquired by the at least one image acquisition-sensor. 6. The substrate handling apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to control the substrate support to transfer the substrate from the new position to a substrate processing chamber. 7. A method of positioning a substrate, the method comprising: supporting the substrate on a substrate support of a transfer arm; acquiring at least one image of the substrate supported on the substrate support wherein the image includes at least one set of about orthogonal edges of the substrate; determining an initial position of the substrate based on the alignment of the set of about orthogonal edges; and moving the substrate support based on the initial position to adjust for a misalignment of the substrate. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein acquiring at least one image comprises capturing an image with an array of charge-coupled devices. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein one of the acquired images includes a substrate identification, the method further comprising performing a character recognition algorithm to interpret the substrate identification. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: translating the substrate support vertically while the substrate is supported thereon; acquiring an image that includes substantially an entire surface of the substrate; and determining whether defects exist in the substrate based on the image of substantially the entire substrate surface. 11. A method of positioning a substrate, the method comprising: supporting the substrate on a substrate support of a transfer arm; acquiring at least one image of the substrate supported on the substrate support wherein the image includes at least two about orthogonal edges defining at least one corner of the substrate; determining an initial position of the substrate based on the alignment of the corner of the substrate; and moving the substrate support based on the initial position to adjust for a misalignment of the substrate. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein acquiring at least one image comprises capturing an image with an array of charge-coupled devices. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein one of the acquired images includes a substrate identification, the method further comprising performing a character recognition algorithm to interpret the substrate identification. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: translating the substrate support vertically while the substrate is supported thereon; acquiring an image that includes substantially an entire surface of the substrate; and determining whether defects exist in the substrate based on the image of substantially the entire substrate surface. 