A method and system for high-throughput screening of multiphase reactions are provided. In an exemplary embodiment the method includes the steps of sequentially loading a plurality of discrete combinations of reactants into a longitudinal reaction zone; reacting each of the combinations as it passes through the reaction zone to provide a continuously or an incrementally varying reaction product; and sequentially discharging the reaction product of each of combination from the reaction zone as reaction of each combination is completed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A synthesis system, comprising a vessel for combinatorial chemical process having: a charge port comprising an air lock capable of sequentially receiving a plurality of discrete combinations of reactants; a vertically longitudinal reaction chamber in communication with said charge port, said reaction chamber being capable of receiving and enclosing the plurality of discrete combinations of reactants disposed linearly within said chamber; and a discharge port comprising an air lock, distinct from said charge port, in communication with said vertically longitudinal reaction chamber to sequentially discharge reaction products of said combinations from said reaction chamber; wherein said vertically longitudinal reaction chamber is adapted to receive each of said combinations of reactants in a vial by sequential gravity loading from the charge port. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said charge port and said discharge port each comprises an air lock controlled by a ball valve. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detector proximate to said discharge port to detect said sequentially discharged reaction product from said reaction chamber. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller in communication with said reaction vessel to control varying reaction parameters within said chamber. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller in communication with said reaction vessel to control a sequence of charging said combinations of reactants to said chamber or a sequence of discharging said products from said chamber. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detector in communication with said discharge port to detect said sequentially discharged reaction products and a processor in communication with said controller and said detector to correlate reaction or reactant variables with a corresponding reaction product. a detector proximate to said discharge port to detect said sequentially discharged reaction product from said reaction chamber; and a controller in communication with said reaction vessel to control varying reaction parameters within said chamber. 