A variety of process modules are described for use in semiconductor manufacturing processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a pair of vertically stacked load locks; providing at least two workpiece handling robotic facilities positioned on different sides of the pair of vertically stacked load locks and connected to the pair of vertically stacked load locks to form a vacuum handling system having a vacuum environment therein for transferring workpieces between the pair of vertically stacked load locks; and delivering a workpiece between the pair of vertically stacked load locks with an air-based workpiece delivery system, where the air-based workpiece delivery system provides transfer of workpieces between the pair of vertically stacked load locks and is isolated from the vacuum handling system. 2. The method of claim 1, further including adding at least one of a semiconductor processing module and a wafer handling robotic facility to the vacuum handling system without reconfiguring existing components of the vacuum handling system. 3. The method of claim 1, further including configuring the at least two workpiece handling robotic facilities in the vacuum handling system to facilitate sequential processing of a workpiece by a first robot handing off the workpiece to a second robot between two sequential processes. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the robotic handling facilities includes a plurality of modular interfaces that each supports connection to other workpiece handling modules to extend the vacuum environment. 5. The method of claim 1, further including detecting a module that is connected to the vacuum handling system and causing control software associated with the connected module to be operationally linked to system control software associated with the vacuum handling system. 6. The method of claim 1, further including providing a module connected to the vacuum handling system that includes wafer storage features that are accessible by at least one robotic handling facility. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the vacuum handling system includes at least two different wafer processing modules for performing a process, the process selected from a list consisting of chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, etching, plasma processing, lithography, plating, cleaning, and spin coating. 8. A semiconductor handling system comprising: a vacuum workpiece handling system having a vacuum environment therein, the vacuum workpiece handling system including at least two workpiece handling robotic facilities and a pair of vertically stacked load locks positioned between the at least two workpiece handling robotic facilities, the at least two workpiece handling robotic facilities being configured to transfer workpieces between the pair of vertically stacked load locks; and an air-based workpiece delivery system for transporting a workpiece between the pair of vertically stacked load locks, the air-based workpiece delivery system being isolated from the vacuum workpiece handling system. 9. The system of claim 8, further including a load lock wherein at least one of the at least two workpiece handling robotic facilities is disposed between the load lock and the pair of vertically stacked load locks. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the air-based workpiece delivery system is adapted to transport a workpiece between at least one of the pair of vertically stacked load locks and the load lock. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of a semiconductor processing module and a wafer handling robotic facility can be added to the semiconductor handling system without reconfiguring existing components of the vacuum workpiece handling system. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the robotic handling facilities includes a plurality of modular interfaces that each supports connection to other workpiece handling modules to extend the vacuum environment. 13. The system of claim 8, further including module control software that is operationally linked to system control software associated with the vacuum system when a connection between a module and the vacuum system is detected. 14. The system of claim 8, further including a module connected to the vacuum handling system that includes wafer storage features that are accessible by at least one robotic handling facility. 15. The system of claim 8, wherein the vacuum handling system includes at least two different wafer processing modules selected from a list consisting of standard width, double width, stretch width, sub chamber divided, batch process, double sided entry, and scanning electron microscope. 