Devices, systems, and methods for compensate for friction within powered automatic systems, particularly for telesurgery and other telepresence applications. Dynamic friction compensation may comprise applying a continuous load in the direction of movement of a joint, and static friction compensation may comprise applying alternating loads in positive and negative joint actuation directions whenever the joint velocity reading falls within a low velocity range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical apparatus having at least one master control operatively associated with at least one surgical instrument by means of a control system, the master control and its associated surgical instrument including a plurality of components at least some of which are selectively moveable in positive component directions and negative component directions, and one of which has an actuator operatively associated therewith, the control system being arranged to cause the surgical instrument to perform movements in response to master control movements so as to perform at least part of a surgical procedure, the surgical apparatus further including a friction compensation system including a generator for generating a friction compensation signal defining a load to be supplied to the actuator to compensate for friction experienced by the component associated with the actuator, and a sensor operatively associated with the component so as to obtain a component velocity reading of that component. 2. A surgical apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which the generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a distribution extending between a positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force to be applied in the positive component direction and a negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force to be applied in the negative component direction, when the velocity reading is within a velocity reading region extending between a selected positive velocity reading and a selected negative velocity reading. 3. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a fully positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to the required friction compensation force in the positive component direction in response to the component velocity reading being greater than the selected positive velocity reading. 4. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a fully negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to the required friction compensation force in the negative component direction in response to the component velocity reading being less than the selected negative velocity reading. 5. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a distribution which is proportional to the component velocity reading position within the velocity reading region. 6. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a variable load supply model. 7. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a gravity compensation model. 8. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the gravity compensation model determines a variable gravity compensation force to be applied to the component to compensate for gravity and the friction compensation system determines a corresponding frictional compensation force from the gravity compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 9. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 8, which further includes a modifying arrangement for modifying the corresponding frictional compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component directions with a predetermined factor when the component velocity reading is within a region extending between a selected velocity reading in the positive component direction and a selected velocity reading in the negative component direction. 10. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 11. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 12. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from fixed frictional compensation force values corresponding to the actual frictional compensation required for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 13. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 12, which further includes a modifying arrangement for modifying the frictional compensation force value for each of the positive and the negative component direction with a predetermined factor when the component velocity reading is within a region extending between a selected velocity reading in the positive component direction and a selected velocity reading in the negative component direction. 14. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 15. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 16. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the actuator is in the form of an electric motor and the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency which is less than electrical time constants of the electric motor and greater than mechanical time constants of a transmission extending between the electric motor and the component. 17. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 40 Hz and 70 Hz. 18. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 50 Hz and 60 Hz. 19. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 18, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency of about 55 Hz. 20. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the actuator is in the form of an electric motor, and the load supplier includes an amplifier for causing a load in the form of an electrical current to be supplied to the electric motor, the electrical current being defined by the duty cycle signal. 21. A surgical apparatus having at least one master control operatively associated with at least one surgical instrument by means of a control system, the master control and its associated surgical instrument including a plurality of components at least some of which are selectively moveable in positive component directions and negative component directions, and one of which has an actuator operatively associated therewith, the control system being arranged to cause the surgical Instrument to perform movements in response to master control movements so as to perform at least part of a surgical procedure, the surgical apparatus further including a friction compensation system including a generator for generating a friction compensation signal defining a load to be supplied to the actuator to compensate for friction experienced by the component associated with the actuator, wherein the generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a distribution extending between a positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force to be applied in the positive component direction and a negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force to be applied in the negative component direction. 22. A surgical apparatus as claimed in claim 21, which further includes a sensor operatively associated with the component so as to obtain a component velocity reading of that component. 23. A surgical apparatus as claimed in claim 22, in which the generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal when the velocity reading is within a velocity reading region extending between a selected positive velocity reading and a selected negative velocity reading. 24. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a distribution which is proportional to the component velocity reading position within the velocity reading region. 25. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a variable load supply model. 26. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a gravity compensation model. 27. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the gravity compensation model determines a variable gravity compensation force to be applied to the component to compensate for gravity and the friction compensation system determines a corresponding frictional compensation force from the gravity compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 28. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from fixed frictional compensation force values corresponding to the actual frictional compensation required for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 29. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the actuator is in the form of an electric motor and the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency which is less than electrical time constants of the electric motor and greater than mechanical time constants of a transmission extending between the electric motor and the component. 30. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 40 Hz and 70 Hz. 31. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the actuator is in the form of an electric motor, and the load supplier includes an amplifier for causing a load in the form of an electrical current to be supplied to the electric motor, the electrical current being defined by the duty cycle signal. 