The present invention is directed to systems and methods for automatically applying a tape, such as an adhesive, to a work-piece. According to one embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a system and method for a robotic tape applicator that includes a computer apparatus, a tape applicator apparatus, and an apparatus for holding a work-piece in registration with the tape applicator apparatus for tape application in response to programming data from the computer apparatus. Other components, such as a tape cutting apparatus, a splicing apparatus, adhesion promoter apparatus, and/or optical system can be added to assist and enhance the tape application process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A tape application system comprising: a computer which includes programmed data respecting a shape of a work-piece and a proposed path of a first tape to be applied to the work-piece; and an tape applicator head controlled by the computer to apply the first tape to the work-piece along the proposed path, the tape applicator head comprising: a braking assembly for locking the first tape during cutting; and a cutting mechanism controlled by the computer capable of cutting the first tape; a tensioning mechanism capable of maintaining a substantially constant tension on the first tape during the tape application to the work-piece; a nose capable of permitting reciprocal motion in a direction normal to the work-piece; and at least one side guide plate extending down to a tape application area of the nose to guide the tape, wherein the tape application area of the nose is flat. 2. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the tensioning mechanism comprises: a shaft; and a sapphire tube over the shaft to form a nip roller. 3. The tape application system of claim 2, wherein the shaft comprises a polished steel shaft. 4. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the nose comprises a stationary radius, the center point of the radius lies along the proposed path of the first tape to be applied to the work-piece. 5. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the nose comprises at least one air port that releases air to reduce friction between the first tape and the nose. 6. The tape application system of claim 1, further comprising: a splicing station that splices an end of the first tape to a beginning of a second tape. 7. The tape application system of claim 6, wherein the splicing station comprises a clamp that applies a compressive force onto the end of the first tape and the beginning of the second tape. 8. The tape application system of claim 6, wherein the splicing station is under control of the computer. 9. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the cutting mechanism comprises a rotary knife that cuts the first tape against an anvil. 10. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the tape applicator head further comprises: a cleaning mechanism that cleans a tape application area of the work-piece prior to the application of the first tape. 11. The tape application system of claim 10, wherein the cleaning mechanism comprises a sweeping material that sweeps away any undesirable material from the tape application area of the work-piece. 12. The tape application system of claim 10, wherein the cleaning mechanism comprises: a fluid dispenser that dispenses fluid to remove any undesirable material from the tape application area of the work-piece. 13. The tape application system of claim 12, wherein the tape applicator head further comprises: an air blaster that removes the dispensed fluid and the undesirable material from the tape application area of the work-piece. 14. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the tape applicator head further comprises: a heating element that produces heat directed at the tape application area of the nose. 15. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the tape applicator head further comprises: a heating element that produces heat directed at a tape application area of the work-piece. 16. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the tape applicator head further comprises: a temperature modification mechanism that provides a temperature changing effect to a tape application area of the work-piece; a blowing system for directing the temperature changing effect to the tape application area of the work-piece. 17. The tape application system of claim 1, further comprising a cartridge coupled to the tape applicator head to dispense the first tape to the tape applicator head. 18. The tape application system of claim 17, further comprising: an identification system that includes: an identification tag on the cartridge to identify a type of the first tape dispensed to the tape applicator head; and a scanner that scans the identification tag to identify the first tape. 19. The tape application system of claim 18, wherein the proposed path of the first tape to be applied to the work-piece is based at least on the scanning of the identification tag by the scanner. 20. The tape application system of claim 1, wherein the cutting mechanism comprises two rollers for maintaining the first tape therebetween, one of the rollers is movable against the other roller to cut the first tape. 21. The tape application system of claim 17, wherein the cartridge comprises a roll balancer capable of maintaining a substantially constant pressure on the first tape residing in the cartridge. 