A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated circuit comprising: A. a substrate of semiconductor material; B. processor circuits formed on the substrate, the processor circuits including address leads on the substrate, the address leads carrying address signals defining an addressable memory space, the addressable memory space being divided into at least two segments, and the processor circuits including data leads, separate from the address leads and also located on the substrate, the data leads coupled to addressable memory locations in the addressable memory space; and C. wait state register circuits formed on the substrate, the wait state register circuits including at least two registers each containing memory wait state information, one register for each segment of the addressable memory space, each of the at least two registers of the wait state register circuits is coupled to the address leads and is separately addressable by addresses on the address leads, each of the registers of the wait state register circuits being coupled to the data leads to receive the memory wait state information in the form of data signals from the data leads, and the memory wait state information in each register defining a number of memory wait states for each segment. 2. The integrated of claim 1 including programmable circuitry coupled to the data leads and the address leads and associated with each of the at least two registers to define a width of an address range for the segment corresponding to each of the at least two registers. 3. The integrated circuit of claim 2 in which the programmable circuitry is coupled to the data leads to receive data from the data leads in order to define the width of the address range for the segment corresponding to each of the at least two registers. 4. The integrated circuit of claim 3 in which the programmable circuitry includes at least one register to store the data defining the width of the address range for the segment corresponding to each of the at least two registers. 5. The integrated circuit of claim 4 in which the processor circuits are digital signal processing circuits and include multiplier circuits coupled to arithmetic and logic units circuits. 6. The integrated circuit of claim 4 in which each register contains at least four binary bits of information and contains a binary number from zero to fifteen. 7. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which the processor circuits are digital signal processing circuits and include multiplier circuits coupled to arithmetic and logic units circuits. 8. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which each register contains at least four binary bits of information. 9. The integrated circuit of claim 8 in which each register contains a binary number from zero to fifteen. 10. The integrated circuit of claim 1 including decoder circuits coupled to the address leads that decode the address signals in order to select one of the at least two registers and also including wait state generator circuits including a logic gate to effect the wait states. 11. The integrated circuit of claim 1 in which the addressable memory space includes a data memory address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the data memory address space. 12. The integrated circuit of claim 11 in which the addressable memory space includes a program memory address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the program memory address space. 13. The integrated circuit of claim 12 in which the addressable memory space includes an I/O peripheral address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the I/O peripheral address space. 14. The integrated circuit of claim 11 in which the addressable memory space includes an I/O peripheral address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the I/O peripheral address space. 15. An integrated circuit comprising A. a substrate of semiconductor material; B. processor circuits formed on the substrate, the processor circuits including address leads on the substrate, the address leads carrying address signals defining an addressable memory space, the addressable memory space being divided into at least two segments, and the processor circuits including data leads on the substrate coupled to addressable memory locations in the addressable memory space; and C. wait state register circuits formed on the substrate and coupled to the address leads, the wait state register circuits including: i. at least two registers each containing memory wait state information, one register for each segment of the addressable memory space, each of the at least two registers of the wait state register circuits being coupled to the data leads to receive the memory wait state information in the form of data signals from the data leads, and the memory wait state information in each register defining a number of memory wait states for each segment, and ii. programmable circuitry coupled to the address leads and associated with each of the at least two registers to define a width of an address range for the segment corresponding to each of the at least two registers. 16. The integrated circuit of claim 15 in which the programmable circuitry is coupled to the data leads to receive data from the data leads in order to define the width of the address range for the segment corresponding to each of the at least two registers. 17. The integrated circuit of claim 16 in which the programmable circuitry includes at least one register to store the data defining the width of the address range for the segment corresponding to each of the at least two registers. 18. The integrated circuit of claim 16 in which each register contains at least four binary bits of information and contains a binary number from zero to fifteen. 19. The integrated circuit of claim 17 in which the processor circuits are digital signal processing circuits and include multiplier circuits coupled to arithmetic and logic units circuits. 20. The integrated circuit of claim 15 in which the processor circuits are digital signal processing circuits and include multiplier circuits coupled to arithmetic and logic units circuits. 21. The integrated circuit of claim 15 in which each register contains at least four binary bits of information. 22. The integrated circuit of claim 21 in which each register contains a binary number from zero to fifteen. 23. The integrated circuit of claim 15 including decoder circuits coupled to the address leads that decode the address signals in order to select one of the at least two registers and also including wait state generator circuits including a logic gate to effect the wait states. 24. The integrated circuit of claim 15 in which each of the at least two registers of the wait state register circuits is separately addressable by addresses on the address leads. 25. The integrated circuit of claim 15 in which the addressable memory space includes a data memory address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the data memory address space. 26. The integrated circuit of claim 25 in which the addressable memory space includes a program memory address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the program memory address space. 27. The integrated circuit of claim 25 in which the addressable memory space includes an I/O peripheral address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the I/O peripheral address space. 28. The integrated circuit of claim 26 in which the addressable memory space includes an I/O peripheral address space, and at least one of the at least two registers defines wait states for a corresponding segment of the I/O peripheral address space. 