A method and apparatus for the quiescent-fill dip of a foundry ladle and the transportation of molten material from a crucible to a mold through a foundry pour basin. Advantages from this process include, among others, a design which minimizes or eliminates turbulence in the molten material, especially in regard to the folding of one stream of molten material into another, as a means to provide undamaged metal to casting molds.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transferring molten material from a: crucible to a pour basin using a ladle comprising an opening for receiving and discharging molten material, the method comprising: positioning the ladle in a rest position over the crucible; lowering the ladle through a dross surface of the melt and making initial contact between the ladle and the molten material; rotating the ladle thereby moving the dross material and revealing a clean molten surface: exposing a portion of the ladle opening to the clean molten surface; lowering the ladle to a predetermined depth into the crucible; rotating the ladle back to its rest position; raising the ladle containing molten material from the crucible; positioning the ladle over the pour basin; and transferring the molten material from the ladle to the pour basin. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein positioning the ladle over the pour basin comprises vertically aligning the ladle to less than about 1 inch from the pour basin. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein lowering the ladle to a predetermined depth into the crucible corresponds to a volume of molten material transferred within the ladle. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein rotating the ladle from the rest position comprises rotating the ladle such that an angle .alpha. formed between the ladle and the molten material is less than about 90 degrees. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing an automated foundry robot control and manipulating the ladle movement using the robot. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the molten material from the group consisting of: aluminum, magnesium, copper based alloys, and mixtures thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring the molten material from the crucible to the pour basin in a manner to substantially minimize turbulence and/or metal fold-over. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a barrel-shaped ladle operable to rotate about an eccentric axis of rotation, wherein the ladle is equipped with an opening having a first end with a substantially planar rim and a second end opposite the first end with an integrated cut-out spout. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising transferring the molten material from the ladle to the pour basin by pouring the molten material out of the second end of the ladle opening using the integrated cut-out spout. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein rotating the ladle and exposing a portion of the ladle opening to the molten material comprises exposing the first end of the ladle opening to the molten material; and further wherein transferring the molten material from the ladle to the pour basin comprises pouring the molten material through the integrated spout of the second end of the ladle. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a retractable cylinder mechanism and rotating the ladle by selectively extending and retracting the cylinder. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring the molten material from the ladle to the pour basin in a manner providing a velocity of molten material flowing through the pour basin less than about 0.5 m/s. 