The location of an object in a physical scene is identified with a stereo camera. A virtual surface is identified in the physical scene, and an approximate disparity set is constructed for the virtual surface. A main and a reference image of the scene are acquired by the stereo camera. The reference image is warped according to the disparity set, and subtracted from the main image to determine a set of depth residual values. Pixels having a substantially non-zero residual are identified with a surface of the object not coincident with the virtual surface.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for identifying a location of an object in a physical scene with a stereo camera comprising: identifying a virtual surface in the physical scene; constructing an approximate disparity set for the virtual surface; acquiring a main and a reference image of the scene with the stereo camera; warping the reference image according to the disparity set; subtracting pixels of the warped reference image from corresponding pixels of the main image to determine a depth residual of each pixel; acquiring a sparse set of point correspondences from a calibration pair of images; applying a polynomial interpolation to the sparse set of point correspondences to generate a smooth continuous approximate disparity set, wherein a particular disparity, d(x, y) is approximated by a linear system d(x, y)=.LAMBDA.x(x, y), where .LAMBDA. is an unknown matrix of coefficients, and x(x, y) is a power expansion of x=[x, y].sup.T ##EQU10## identifying pixels having a substantially non-zero residual with a surface of the object not coincident with the virtual surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the virtual surface has an associated margin to form a virtual volume near the virtual surface with a thickness equal to the margin. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: performing volumetric depth segmentation operations according to virtual volume. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the virtual surface is an arbitrary surface defined in a space of the physical scene. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the virtual surface is partially tangible and partially in a space of the scene. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: setting each depth residual less than a predetermined threshold to zero; and setting all other depth residuals to one to generate a binary segmentation mask for the object. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the object is moving, and further comprising: tracking the moving object in a stereo video of the scene using the binary segmentation mask. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the virtual surface is substantially planar and the approximated disparity set is obtained from intrinsic camera parameters of the stereo camera. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining a touching of the virtual surface by the object from the depth disparities. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: illuminating the scene and the object with a dynamic projector. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the illumination includes a high contrast image. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising: identifying a first virtual surface in the physical scene; identifying a second virtual surface in the physical scene offset from the first virtual surface by a constant distance; analytically constructing an approximate disparity set for the first virtual surface and the second virtual surface; warping the reference image according to the first disparity set; warping the reference image according to the second disparity set; subtracting each pixel of the first warped reference image from a corresponding pixel of the main image to determine a first depth residual of each pixel; and subtracting each pixel of the second reference image from a corresponding pixel of the main image to determine a second depth residual of each pixel; and comparing the first and second depth residuals to determine a touching of the virtual surface. 