A shape memory alloy (SMA) actuator assembly is provided that includes an SMA component. The SMA component is used to impart motion in an output shaft. Also provided is a return force component that provides a variable, tailored return force to the SMA component. Additionally, a variety of protective mechanisms are disclosed and utilized to prevent damage to the internal workings and components within the SMA actuator assembly as well as provide protection and safety for external workings.
Claims We claim: 1. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly comprising: a shape memory alloy component; an output shaft coupled to the shape memory alloy component such that contraction of the shape memory alloy component causes output shaft movement; a return force component coupled to the shape memory alloy component to move the shape memory allow alloy component from a contracted configuration to an extended configuration, said return force component providing a tailored return force to the shape memory alloy component; and a protective mechanism to prevent damage to the shape memory alloy component. 2. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein the shape memory alloy component is a shape memory alloy wire. 3. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein the shape memory alloy component comprises a set of stacked parallel conductive plates having shape memory alloy links connecting adjacent plates. 4. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein said output shaft movement is linear. 5. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein said output shaft movement is rotational. 6. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein said output shaft movement is a combination of linear movement and non-continuous rotary movement. 7. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein the tailored return force applied to the shape memory component by the return force component is smallest when the shape memory component is in a contracted configuration. 8. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein the tailored return force applied to the shape memory component by the return force component is higher when the shape memory component is in the extended configuration than when the shape memory component is in the contracted configuration. 9. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein the tailored return force applied to the shape memory component by the return force component is smallest when the tailored return force is initially applied to the shape memory alloy component. 10. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein the protective mechanism is selected from the group consisting of: an electrical shut off switch, a thermal fuse, a mechanical end stop and an electrical end stop. 11. An actuator assembly according to claim 1 further including a drive member coupled to the shape memory alloy component, wherein the return force is provided applied across the outer surface of the drive member. 12. An actuator assembly according to claim 11 wherein the outer surface of the drive member further comprises a shaped surface that defines the force profile of the return force. 13. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly, comprising: a shape memory alloy component; a drive member coupled to and drivable by the shape memory alloy component; an output shaft; an output member coupled to the output shaft and drivable by the drive member; a resilient coupling element having a fixed condition and a deflected condition wherein when the resilient coupling element is in the fixed condition, the output member and the drive member are urged into cooperative movement to transmit the thermoelastic movement of the shape memory alloy component to the output shaft and when the resilient coupling element is in a deflected condition the output member and the drive member are allowed to move relative to one another; and a protective mechanism positioned within the shape memory alloy actuator assembly to prevent damage to the shape memory alloy component. 14. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein the resilient coupling element is a spring clip. 15. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein the resilient coupling element is a combination compression, torsion spring and the output member and drive member are arranged in a split lever configuration. 16. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein the resilient coupling element is a pre-tensioned spring, the drive member and the output member are in a split lever configuration, and the pre-tensioned spring connects the distal end of the drive member to the distal end of the output member. 17. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein the shape memory alloy component is a shape memory alloy wire. 18. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein the shape memory alloy component is a set of stacked parallel conductive plates having shape memory alloy links connecting adjacent plates. 19. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 1 further comprising a stroke output multiplier coupled to the shape memory alloy component. 20. A shape memory alloy actuator according to claim 19 wherein said stroke output multiplier is a pulley linkage system disposed between the shape memory alloy component and the output shaft. 21. A shape memory alloy actuator according to claim 19 wherein said stroke output multiplier is a double rack and pinion system disposed between the shape memory alloy component and the output shaft. 22. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 13 further comprising a stroke output multiplier coupled to the shape memory alloy component. 23. A shape memory alloy actuator according to claim 22 wherein said stroke output multiplier is a pulley linkage system disposed between the shape memory alloy component and the output shaft. 24. A shape memory alloy actuator according to claim 21 wherein said stroke output multiplier is a double rack and pinion system disposed between the shape memory alloy component and the output shaft. 25. An actuator assembly according to claim 13 further comprising a return force component coupled to the shape memory alloy component to move the shape memory allow alloy component from a contracted configuration to an extended configuration, said return force component providing a tailored return force to the shape memory alloy component. 26. An actuator assembly according to claim 25 wherein the return force is provided applied across the outer surface of the drive member. 27. An actuator assembly according to claim 26 wherein the outer surface of the drive member comprises a shaped surface that defines the force profile of the return force. 28. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly comprising: a shape memory alloy component including a set of stacked parallel conductive plates having shape memory alloy links connecting adjacent plates; an output shaft coupled to the shape memory alloy component such that contraction of the shape memory alloy component causes output shaft movement; a return force component coupled to the shape memory alloy component to move the shape memory alloy component from a contracted configuration to an extended configuration, said return force component providing a tailored return force to the shape memory alloy component; and a protective mechanism to prevent damage to the shape memory alloy component. 29. An actuator assembly according to claim 28 wherein the tailored return force applied to the shape memory component by the return force component is smallest when the shape memory component is in a contracted configuration. 30. An actuator assembly according to claim 28 wherein the tailored return force applied to the shape memory component by the return force component is higher when the shape memory component is in the extended configuration than when the shape memory component is in the contracted configuration. 31. An actuator assembly according to claim 28 wherein the tailored return force applied to the shape memory component by the return force component is smallest when the tailored return force is initially applied to the shape memory alloy component. 32. An actuator assembly according to claim 28 further including a drive member coupled to the shape memory alloy component, wherein the return force is provided applied across the outer surface of the drive member. 33. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly, comprising: a shape memory alloy component including a set of stacked parallel conductive plates having shape memory alloy links connecting adjacent plates; a drive member coupled to the shape memory alloy component; an output shaft; an output member coupled to the output shaft; a resilient coupling element having a fixed condition and a deflected condition wherein when the resilient coupling element is in the fixed condition, the output member and the drive member are urged into cooperative movement to transmit the thermoelastic movement of the shape memory alloy component to the output shaft and when the resilient coupling element is in a deflected condition the output member and the drive member are allowed to move relative to one another; and a protective mechanism positioned within the shape memory alloy actuator assembly to prevent damage to the shape memory alloy component. 34. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 33 wherein the resilient coupling element is a spring clip. 35. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 33 wherein the resilient coupling element is a combination compression, torsion spring and the output member and drive member are arranged in a split lever configuration. 36. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 33 wherein the resilient coupling element is a pre-tensioned spring, the drive member and the output member are in a split lever configuration, and the pre-tensioned spring connects the distal end of the drive member to the distal end of the output member. 37. An actuator assembly according to claim 33 further comprising a return force component coupled to the shape memory alloy component to move the shape memory alloy component from a contracted configuration to an extended configuration, said return force component providing a tailored return force to the shape memory alloy component. 38. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly comprising: a shape memory alloy component; an output shaft coupled to the shape memory alloy component such that contraction of the shape memory alloy component causes output shaft movement; means for providing a tailored return force to the shape memory alloy component to move the shape memory alloy component from a contracted configuration to an extended configuration; and a protective mechanism to prevent damage to the shape memory alloy component. 39. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 38, wherein the means for providing a tailored return force includes a drive member coupled to the shape memory alloy component, the drive member having a shaped surface defining a force profile of the return force. 40. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly according to claim 39, wherein the means for providing a tailored return force further includes a spring. 41. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly, comprising: a shape memory alloy component; a drive member coupled to and drivable by the shape memory alloy component; an output shaft; an output member coupled to the output shaft and drivable by the drive member; means for selectively coupling the output member and the drive member, the means for selectively coupling selectively urging the output member and the drive member into cooperative movement to transmit the thermoelastic movement of the shape memory alloy component to the output shaft and selectively allowing the output member and the drive member to move relative to one another; and a protective mechanism positioned within the shape memory alloy actuator assembly to prevent damage to the shape memory alloy component. 42. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly as in claim 41, wherein the means for selectively coupling includes a spring. 43. A shape memory alloy actuator assembly as in claim 41, wherein the drive member and the output member are arranged in a split lever configuration. 