A linkage mechanism for a pick and place robot includes two rotatable drive members mounted on a base and connected to a platform by a respective two element linkage. The mid point of the two element linkage has a bell crank, the arms of which are connected to first and second location links anchored respectively at the base and platform. The platform may be configured to carry various implements, and the mechanism permits movement thereof in two dimensions by selective motion of the drive members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism comprising: a base; a platform that is movable relative to the base in a plane extending through the base and the platform; the base being provided with two rotatable drive members connected to the platform via a pair of linkages, each linkage including a drive link having a first end fixed for rotation with a respective drive member and a driven link having a first end pivotally connected to the platform, and respective second ends of the drive and driven links being pivotally connected together, one of said linkages further including means for locating the platform relative to the base and for maintaining the platform in a predetermined orientation with respect to the base during movement thereof, wherein the means for locating includes a bell crank provided at a pivotal connection between the drive and driven links, a first location link pivotally connected between one arm of the bell crank and the base, and a second location link pivotally connected between the other arm of the bell crank and the platform. 2. The mechanism according to claim 1 comprising two spaced driven links mounted on common pivotal connections to the bell crank and the platform respectively, the links being spaced perpendicularly with respect to the plane. 3. The mechanism according to claim 2 wherein structural braces are provided between the spaced driven links. 4. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first location link is provided with a spherical connection at each end thereof. 5. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the second location link has a spherical connection at each end thereof. 6. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the connection between the driven links and the platform is a spherical connection. 7. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the driven links are longer than the drive links. 8. The mechanism according claim 1, wherein the location means is outboard of the drive link and the driven link. 9. The mechanism according to claim 1, each linkage of the pair of linkages is provided with the location means. 10. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the base is movable in a direction substantially normal to the plane by a linear drive mechanism. 