A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot am. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure comprising opposed, moveable gripping fingers for gripping and releasing said wire, said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable multiple-axis robotic arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one workstation having equipment for performing at least one of the following tasks; bending loops in said wire, surface refining of said wire, and marking of said wire. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a tool for forming a loop in said wire. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said first gripping tool is maintained in a fixed location. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said pair of first and second gripping tools and multiple-axis robotic arm are operative to advance said wire through said first gripping tool in a series of steps and bend successive segments of said orthodontic archwire to thereby form a completed orthodontic archwire having a predetermined shape. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a resistive heating system supplying a current to said second gripping tool so as to apply heat to said wire. 7. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure for gripping said wire, said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration; and a packaging and labeling station receiving said wire after the bending of said wire is complete, said packaging and labeling station including a supply of packages and having equipment for generation of a label for either said wire or said package. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising an exit location where said wire is placed by said moveable arm after the bending of said wire is complete, and a conveyor system for conveying said wire from said exit location to said packaging and labeling station. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said packing and labeling station comprises a separate packaging station and a separate labeling station. 10. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure for gripping said wire, said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration; and wherein said source of wire material comprises a magazine containing a plurality of wires in an ordered array and having features for spacing said wires from each other a sufficient amount so as to enable said moveable gripping tool to grasp an individual one of said wires. 11. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure for gripping said wire, said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration; and wherein said source of wires comprises a conveyor system carrying said wires separated from each other towards said wire bending apparatus in a predetermined orientation relative to wire bending apparatus. 12. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure for gripping said wire, said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration; and wherein said moveable arm comprises a six axis robot arm. 13. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure for gripping said wire said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration; and wherein said source comprises a spool of wire material and said system further comprises a cutting tool for cutting said wire material. 14. An orthodontic wire manufacturing system, comprising: a source of wire material; a wire bending apparatus comprising a first gripping tool and a second gripping tool; said first and second gripping tools each having a gripping structure for gripping said wire, said second gripping tool mounted to the end of a moveable arm capable of movement relative to said first gripping tool about at least two independent axes, said wire bending apparatus gripping a wire from said source with said first gripping tool or said second gripping tool; and a control system operating wire bending apparatus so as to form a bend in said archwire having a desired configuration; and a tool for joining a feature to a wire bent by said wire bending apparatus. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said feature is joined to said wire by welding. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein said feature comprises a stop. 