A method of making a candy box by forming a side element and placing inside it a closure element, depositing a single glue fillet or a plurality of spaced-apart glue fillets in the interior corner defined by them.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a candy box or a cover for a candy box comprising; assembling to a fixture a side element made of paper board material in which a portion of the fixture is shaped to cause the side element to take on the desired shape, an inside surface of the side element defining an interior space; placing into the interior space a closure element which is shaped to conform to the shape of the inside surface of the side element and to fit such that at least selected portions are in contact with the side element the intersection of the side element and the selected portions of the closure element defining an interior corner formed around the inside periphery of the side element with the closure element wherein the interior corner is defined by the inside surface of the side element and the inside surface of the closure element; injecting hot melt glue at a sufficient angle into the interior corner into direct contact with the side element and the closure element to create at least one glue fillet to affix the closure element to the side element absent any other element holding the side element and the closure element together and in which the glue is deposited by directing around a substantial portion of the interior space a glue injector while injecting glue from the glue injector in a manner to leave at least one glue fillet in the interior corner on the inside of the box. 2. The method of claim 1 in which the glue is deposited by injecting it from a manifold that has openings for glue injection at selected spaced apart positions. 3. The method of claim 1 in which glue is injected from a glue injector to form a plurality of spaced-apart glue fillets having spaces between them configured according to a predetermined pattern for the placement and length of the glue fillets and the length of the spaces. 4. The method of claim 1 in which the closure element is configured to have a plurality of spaced apart tabs in which the tabs extend to the side element to define an interior corner along each tab and a space between the tabs, and glue is deposited at the interior corners defined by the tabs and the side element. 5. The method of claim 1 in which the interior corner is defined by the inside surface of the side element and the outside surface of the closure element such that the at least one glue fillet is on the outside of the box. 6. The method of claim 1 in which the side member is heart shaped and defines a heart shaped interior space and the closure element is a heart shape congruent with the interior space. 7. The method of claim 6 in which the spaced-apart glue fillets include at least one glue fillet proximate the point of the heart and at least one glue fillet proximate the cusp of the lobes of the heart. 8. The method of claim 3 in which the closure element is a first closure element and a second closure element is placed over the first closure element so that the glue of the at least one glue fillet contacts the side element and both the first and the second closure elements. 9. The method of claim 5 in which the side member is heart shaped and defines a heart shaped interior space and the first and second closure elements are a heart shape congruent with the interior space. 10. The method of claim 8 in which the side member is heart shaped and defines a heart shaped interior space and the first and second closure elements are a heart shape congruent with the interior space. 