A method of quick-plastic-forming a component from a sheet metal blank in multiple forming stages of single-action tooling along a transfer line. The blank is transferred from a prebending station to a preforming station along the transfer line, wherein the blank is preformed by a single-action forming tool into a preform blank. The preform blank is then transferred from the preforming station to a finish-forming station along the transfer line, wherein the blank is finish-formed by a single-action forming tool into the component. The component is transferred from the finish-forming station to a cooling station along the transfer line. The transfer steps are carried out by a reciprocating transfer mechanism that simultaneously transfers the blanks and component from station to station along the transfer line.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of hot blow-forming a substantially three-dimensional component from a substantially two-dimensional blank using hot blow-forming tooling, said method comprising: moving said blank to a first stage forming tool of a first stage forming station; forming said blank into a first stage form by pressing one side of said blank so that an opposite side of said blank is brought into conformance with a forming surface of said first stage forming tool; moving said first stage form from said first stage forming tool of said first stage forming station to a second stage forming tool of a second stage forming station; and forming said first stage form into a second stage form by applying a pressurized working gas against one side of said first stage form so that an opposite side of said first stage form is brought into conformance with a forming surface of said second stage forming tool that is internally heated to a second stage forming temperature, and by increasing the pressure of said working gas from ambient pressure to a second stage forming pressure; said moving steps being carried out by a transfer apparatus that simultaneously transfers said blank and said first stage form. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said blank is composed of an aluminum alloy. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein second stage forming temperature is on the order of between about 400.degree. C. and about 460.degree. C. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said second stage forming pressure is on the order of between about 250 and about 500 psi. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein said transfer apparatus is a reciprocating transfer mechanism. 6. A method of quick-plastic-forming a substantially three-dimensional component from a substantially two-dimensional blank in multiple forming stages having electrically heated single-action tooling, said method comprising: preheating said blank to a preheat temperature to create a preheated blank for stretch elongation thereof under the pressure of a working gas; loading said preheated blank to a prebending station; prebending said prebent preheated blank along at least one axis thereof to create a prebent preheated blank; moving said prebent preheated blank to a preforming tool of a preforming station; preforming said preheated blank into a preform by applying a pressurized working gas to one side of said prebent preheated blank so that an opposite side of said prebent preheated blank is brought into conformance with a forming surface of said preforming tool that is internally heated to a preforming temperature, and by increasing the pressure of said working gas from ambient pressure to a preforming pressure; moving said preform from said preforming tool of said preforming station to a finish-forming tool of a finish-forming station; finish-forming said preform into said component by applying a pressurized working gas against one side of said preform so that an opposite side of said preform is brought into conformance with a finish-form surface of said finish-form tool that is internally heated to a finish-forming temperature that is lower than said preforming temperature, and by increasing the pressure of said working gas from ambient pressure to a finish-forming pressure that is higher than said preforming pressure; moving said component to a cooling station; allowing said component to cool; and unloading said component from said cooling station; said moving steps being carried out by a reciprocating transfer mechanism. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein said blank is composed of an aluminum alloy. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said preforming temperature is on the order of between about 475.degree. C. and about 550.degree. C. and said finish-forming temperature is on the order of between about 400.degree. C. and about 460.degree. C. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said first stage forming pressure is on the order of between about 100 and about 300 psi and said second stage forming pressure is on the order of between about 250 and about 500 psi. 10. A method of quick-plastic-forming a substantially three-dimensional component from a substantially two-dimensional aluminum alloy blank in multiple forming stages having electrically heated single-action tooling, said method comprising: preheating said blank to between about 475.degree. C. and about 550.degree. C. to create a preheated blank for stretch elongation thereof under the pressure of a working gas; loading said preheated blank to a prebending station; prebending said preheated blank along at least one axis thereof to create a prebent preheated blank; moving said prebent preheated blank to a preforming tool of a preforming station; preforming said prebent preheated blank into a preform by applying a pressurized working gas to one side of said prebent preheated blank so that an opposite side of said prebent preheated blank is brought into conformance with a forming surface of said preforming tool that is internally heated to between about 475.degree. C. and about 550.degree. C., and by increasing the pressure of said working gas from ambient pressure to a preforming pressure; moving said preform from said preforming tool of said preforming station to a finish-forming tool of a finish-forming station; finish-forming said preform into said component by applying a pressurized working gas against one side of said preform so that an opposite side of said preform is brought into conformance with a finish-form surface of said finish-form tool that is internally heated to between about 400.degree. C. and about 460.degree. C., and by increasing the pressure of said working gas from ambient pressure to a finish-forming pressure that is higher than said preforming pressure; moving said component to a cooling station; allowing said component to cool; and unloading said component from said cooling station; said moving steps being carried out by a reciprocating transfer mechanism. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein said preforming pressure is on the order of between about 100 and about 300 psi and said finish-forming pressure is on the order of between about 250 and about 500 psi. 