A resistance welding apparatus having a pair of programmable ball electrodes carried on universally movable positioners. The positioners are programmed to move the ball electrodes simultaneously along a seam line so that the ball electrodes clamp and support opposite sides of a pair of stacked workpieces and are electrically charged to form resistance seam welds along the seam lines to connect the workpieces.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for resistance seam welding workpieces, the method comprising: combining a pair of workpieces into a temporary assembly having at least selected portions in contact for resistance seam welding of the workpieces together; actuating a first programmable mechanism to rotatably move a first generally spherical ball electrode in a prescribed pattern against one side of the assembly; actuating a second programmable mechanism to simultaneously rotatably move a second generally spherical ball electrode in the same pattern against an opposite side of the assembly with the electrodes maintained at opposite positions of the assembly during their motion; and conducting electric welding current between the electrodes through the assembly to create a seam weld along the prescribed pattern. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the ball electrodes are moved in a non-linear pattern. 3. An apparatus for resistance seam welding workpieces, the apparatus comprising: a support for holding a pair of workpieces in a temporary assembly with opposing surfaces in contact along a seam line; a first ball electrode and a second electrode simultaneously engagable with opposite surfaces of the assembly along the seam line for locally conducting welding current through the workpieces to weld the workpieces together along the seam line, each ball electrode being rotatable in any direction against its respective workpiece surface for conducting welding current therethrough; a first programmable positioner carrying the first ball electrode and operative to rotatably move the first ball electrode along the seam line in engagement with one side of the assembly; the second electrode operatively engaging an opposite side of the assembly and operative to conduct current passed through the assembly opposite the locations of the first ball electrode; and an electric current producing device connected with the electrodes for welding the assembly together along the seam line. 4. An apparatus as in claim 3 wherein the second electrode is also a ball electrode rotatable in any direction against its respective workpiece surface for conducting welding current therethrough, the apparatus including a second programmable positioner carrying the second ball electrode and operative to rotatably move the second ball electrode along the seam line in engagement with said opposite side of the assembly. 5. An apparatus as in claim 4 wherein at least one of the positioners is a robotic arm. 6. An apparatus as in claim 4 wherein at least one of the, ball electrodes is rotatably supported by a holder carried by one of the positioners. 7. An apparatus as in claim 6 wherein the holder includes a coupler shank and a socket in which the ball electrode is rotatably received. 8. An apparatus as in claim 7 including a retainer ring attached to the holder and rotatably retaining the ball electrode in the socket. 9. An apparatus as in claim 7 wherein the bail electrode is lubricated by a high temperature lubricant in the socket. 10. An apparatus as in claim 9 wherein the high temperature lubricant is a ring engagable by the ball electrode. 11. An apparatus as in claim 7 including a leaf type spring extending within a groove within the socket providing a partially suspended electrical contact for the ball electrode. 12. An electrode assembly for use in resistance seam welding of electrically conductive metal workpieces together, the assembly comprising: a ball electrode formed of low resistance electrically conductive heat resistant material of generally spherical configuration; and a coupler shank mountable to a welding tool holder and including an end defining a part-spherical socket receiving the ball electrode and a retainer secured to the shank and retaining the ball electrode for free omnidirectional rotation in the socket, the ball electrode protruding beyond the retainer for rotatable engagement with a workpiece; the socket being connectable with a source of welding current and formed of material capable of conducting resistance welding current to the ball electrode. 13. An assembly as in claim 12 wherein the retainer is a ring. 14. An assembly as in claim 13 wherein the ring includes a graphitic lubricant material. 15. An assembly as in claim 12 wherein the shank includes an internal passage for circulating liquid coolant for cooling the assembly. 16. An assembly as in claim 12 wherein the socket includes a groove receiving a conductive leaf spring retained in the socket and suspending the ball electrode in the socket to allow slight axial motion of the ball electrode within the socket. 