A method and system for the processing of one or more wafers in a process tool is provided, the method comprising subjecting the one or more wafer in a reaction chamber to a process, generating an inhibit next load flag on predefined conditions, the inhibit next load flag not effecting already started processing of a wafer. Prior to the start of the processing of a wafer, a check is performed to see if an inhibit next load flag has been set. When upon checking it has been found that an inhibit next load has been set, the start of the process in the reaction chamber is prohibited. The method further includes providing pre-programmed recovery procedures, such that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the to be processed wafer of which the start of the processing is prohibited ends in a defined state such that the tool can be used for further processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A memory device, for use with a semiconductor processing apparatus that performs at least one wafer processing step for each batch of one or more provided wafers, the memory device comprising instructions for the apparatus to perform a method comprising: determining, in accordance with at least one of a detected condition of the apparatus and a command received from a computer coupled to the apparatus, that a provided batch over which the apparatus has control is not to participate in the wafer processing step; and in response to a result of determining, inhibiting participation of the batch in the wafer processing step without interfering with wafer processing currently being applied to a second wafer not in the batch. 2. The memory device of claim 1 wherein determining comprises detecting an alarm condition. 3. The memory device of claim 1 wherein determining comprises evaluating a user-defined condition of process parameters. 4. The memory device of claim 1 wherein determining is in accordance with at least one of a detected condition of the apparatus, a command received from a computer coupled to the apparatus, and a condition of a third wafer, the apparatus having already applied the wafer processing step to the third wafer. 5. The memory device of claim 1 further comprising performing a recovery procedure on the batch. 6. The memory device of claim 5 wherein: determining is repeated to provide an updated result prior to inhibiting; and inhibiting is performed after lapse of a predetermined time and in accordance with the updated result. 7. A semiconductor processing apparatus comprising the memory of any of claims 1 through 6. 8. A memory device for use with a semiconductor processing apparatus that includes a first wafer processing step followed by a second wafer processing step for each batch of one or more provided wafers, the memory device comprising instructions for the apparatus to perform a method comprising: determining, in accordance with at least one of a detected condition of the apparatus and a command received from a computer coupled to the apparatus, that a provided batch over which the apparatus has control is not to participate in the second step of wafer processing; in response to a result of determining, inhibiting participation of the batch in the second step of wafer processing; and performing a recovery procedure on the batch so that the batch does not interfere with operation of the first step of wafer processing on a provided subsequent batch. 9. A semiconductor processing apparatus comprising the memory of claim 8. 