Surgical accessories are presented in vivo and used by surgical tools in the surgical site to perform additional tasks without the need to remove the tools from the surgical site for tool change or instrument loading. Examples of in vivo accessories include fastening accessories such as surgical clips for use with a clip applier, single working member accessories such as a blade which can be grasped and manipulated by a grasping tool for cutting, sheath accessories that fit over working members of a tool, flow tubes for providing suction or introducing a fluid into the surgical site, and a retraction member resiliently biased to retract a tissue to expose an area in the surgical site for treatment. The accessories can be introduced into the surgical site by a dedicated accessory introducer, or can be supported on the body of a surgical tool inserted into the surgical site and be manipulated using another surgical tool in the surgical site. The accessory introducer can be resiliently biased to bias the accessories toward a predetermined position in the surgical site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system for effecting a predetermined treatment of a target tissue at an internal surgical site within a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical accessory adapted for effecting the treatment; an accessory introducer having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the introducer insertable via an opening of the patient body into the patient body, wherein the accessory introducer includes a container having a door and a mechanism coupled with the door for remotely moving the door between an open position and a closed position from outside the internal surgical site, and the surgical accessory is provided in the container through the opening to the internal surgical site; and a robotic arm supporting a surgical tool, the surgical tool having an end effector suitable for insertion through a second opening of the patient body, the end effector coupleable with the surgical accessory within the internal surgical site so that the robot arm can manipulate the surgical accessory to direct the treatment to the target tissue. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the surgical accessory comprises a member selected from the group consisting of a scalpel, a blade, a dissection finger, an electrode, a clip, a tube, and a hook. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 1 wherein the accessory introducer includes a block having a material which deforms to releasably secure the surgical accessory therein. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 1 wherein the surgical accessory comprises a tool tip configured to be releasably coupled to the end effector of the surgical tool to form a tool tip form the end effector. 5. A robotic surgical system for effecting a predetermined treatment of a target tissue at an internal surgical site within a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical accessory adapted for effecting the treatment, wherein the surgical accessory is a clip; an accessory introducer having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the introducer insertable via an opening of the patient body into the patient body, the surgical accessory being coupled with the distal end of the introducer and passable through the opening to the internal surgical site; and a robotic arm supporting a surgical tool, the surgical tool having an end effector suitable for insertion through a second opening of the patient body, the end effector coupleable with the surgical accessory within the internal surgical site so that the robot arm can manipulate the surgical accessory to direct the treatment to the target tissue, wherein the surgical tool is a clip applier. 6. A robotic surgical system for effecting a predetermined treatment of a target tissue at an internal surgical site within a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical accessory adapted for effecting the treatment; an accessory introducer having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the introducer insertable via an opening of the patient body into the patient body, the surgical accessory being coupled with the distal end of the introducer and passable through the opening to the internal surgical site; a robotic arm supporting a surgical tool, the surgical tool having an end effector suitable for insertion through a second opening of the patient body, the end effector coupleable with the surgical accessory within the internal surgical site so that the robot arm can manipulate the surgical accessory to direct the treatment to the target tissue; and means for resiliently biasing the surgical accessory toward the opening. 7. A robotic surgical system for effecting a predetermined treatment of a target tissue at an internal surgical site within a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical accessory adapted for effecting the treatment; an accessory introducer having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the introducer insertable via an opening of the patient body into the patient body, the surgical accessory being coupled with the distal end of the introducer and passable through the opening to the internal surgical site; and a robotic arm supporting a surgical tool, the surgical tool having an end effector suitable fir insertion through a second opening of the patient body, the end effector coupleable with the surgical accessory within the internal surgical site so that the robot arm can manipulate the surgical accessory to direct the treatment to the target tissue; wherein the accessory introducer includes a container having a door openable by the surgical tool, the container containing one or more surgical accessories. 8. A robotic surgical system for effecting a predetermined treatment of a target tissue at an internal surgical site within a patient body, the system comprising: a surgical accessory adapted for effecting the treatment; an accessory introducer having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of the introducer insertable via an opening of the patient body into the patient body, the surgical accessory being coupled with the distal end of the introducer and passable through the opening to the internal surgical site; and a robotic arm supporting a surgical tool, the surgical tool having an end effector suitable for insertion through a second opening of the patient body, the end effector coupleable with the surgical accessory within the internal surgical site so that the robot arm can manipulate the surgical accessory to direct the treatment to the target tissue; wherein the end effector comprises a pair of working members and the accessory comprises a pair of fingers moveably supported on a collar which is configured to be releaseably coupled with the surgical tool in a coupled position, the pair of fingers mating with the pair of working members to be movable by the pair of working members in the coupled position. 9. A robotic surgical system comprising: a plurality of surgical accessories; an accessory introducer for concurrently providing the plurality of surgical accessories to a surgical site within a patient; and a surgical tool robotically controlled to couple a selected one of the plurality of surgical accessories to a working end of the surgical tool in order to perform a surgical procedure at the surgical site. 10. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein individual of the plurality of surgical accessories include a tool tip configured to be releasably coupled to the working end of the surgical tool. 11. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a scalpel. 12. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a blade. 13. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a dissection finger. 14. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include an electrode. 15. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a clip. 16. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a tube. 17. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a hook. 18. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a gauze pad. 19. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of surgical accessories include a needle. 20. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the accessory introducer includes a block having a material which deforms to releasably secure the plurality of surgical accessories therein. 21. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the accessory introducer includes a container having a door and a mechanism coupled with the door for remotely moving the door between an open position and a dosed position from outside the internal surgical site. 22. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the accessory introducer includes a cartridge loaded with the plurality of surgical accessories. 23. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the accessory introducer includes an inflatable holder that holds the plurality of surgical accessories, wherein the inflatable holder is in a deflated state while inserting the inflatable holder into the patient and in an inflated state after being positioned at the surgical site so as to make available the plurality of surgical accessories for selective coupling with the surgical tool. 24. The robotic surgical system according to claim 9, wherein the accessory introducer includes a tool with the plurality of surgical accessories mounted in a piggyback fashion on a shaft of the tool. 25. The robotic surgical system according to claim 24, wherein the tool is a second surgical tool robotically controlled to assist in performing the surgical procedure at the surgical site. 