In an information processing device and method, and programs, firstly, new second inheritance data is created based on first inheritance data regulating the shape and/or behaviors of a virtual creature and secondly, the gene data of the virtual creature is diagnosed and a given value added is applied to the virtual creature when it is determined based on the diagnostic result that the gene data satisfies predetermined conditions and thirdly, information on parents of virtual creatures which are sequentially created by mixing and registered, is stored and a pedigree of a designated virtual creature is inquired into based on the information. On the other hand, a data storing device is provided with a first storage means for storing inheritance data to regulate the shape and/or behaviors of a virtual creature, a communication means for transmitting/receiving inheritance data to/from the outside, and a second storing means for storing the inheritance data of other virtual creatures via the communication means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An information processing device, comprising an inheritance data creation means for creating a new second inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors, of a virtual creature that can be expressed as data and is designed to be programmed to perform actions by the virtual creature, based on a first inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors of said virtual creature; and providing means for providing for a robot to associate with said second inheritance data, wherein said second inheritance data is created by said inheritance data creation means; whereby said robot acquires at least one new behavior relating to said new second inheritance data. 2. The information processing device according to claim 1, comprising inheritance data obtaining means for obtaining said first inheritance data via a network. 3. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein said providing means provides said second inheritance data via a network. 4. The information processing device according to claim 1, comprising storage means for storing plural pieces of said first inheritance data registered in advance, and wherein said inheritance data creation means creates said second inheritance data using said first inheritance data which is designated out of said plural pieces of first inheritance data stored in said storage means. 5. An information processing method, comprising the steps of: creating a new second inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors, of a virtual creature that exists as data and is designed to be programmed to perform actions by the virtual creature, based on first inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors, of said virtual creature; and providing said second inheritance data for a robot to associate with said second inheritance data, wherein said second inheritance data is created by an inheritance data creation means; whereby said robot acquires at least one new behavior relating to said new second inheritance data. 6. The information processing method according to claim 5, wherein said creating step is to: obtain said first inheritance data from the outside via a network; and create said second inheritance data based on said first inheritance data obtained. 7. The information processing method according to claim 5, wherein said second step is to provide said second inheritance data via a network. 8. The information processing method according to claim 5, wherein said first step is to: store said plural pieces of fist inheritance data registered in advance; and create said second inheritance data using said first inheritance data which is designated out of said plural pieces of first inheritance data stored. 9. A program for making a computer execute processing, comprising a first step of creating new second inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors, of a virtual creature that exists as data and is designed to be programmed to perform actions by the virtual creature, based on first inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors, of said virtual creature; and a second step providing for a robot to associate with said second inheritance data; whereby said robot acquires at least one new behavior relating to said new second inheritance data. 10. The program according to claim 9, wherein said first step is to: obtain said first inheritance data from the outside via a network; and create said second inheritance data based on said first inheritance data obtained. 11. The program according to claim 9, wherein said second step is to provide said second inheritance data via a network. 12. The program according to claim 9, wherein said first step is to: store said plural pieces of first inheritance data registered in advance; and create said second inheritance data using said first inheritance data which is designated out of said plural pieces of first inheritance data stored. 13. A data storing device, comprising: a first storage means for storing inheritance data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors of a first virtual creature that exists as data and is desianed to be programmed to perform actions by the first virtual creature; communication means coupled to the first storage means for transmitting and receiving said inheritance data to/from the outside; and a second storage means for storing said inheritance data of a second virtual creature which is obtained through said communication means. 14. An information processing device, comprising: a diagnostic means for diagnosing virtual gene data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors of a virtual creature that can be expressed as data and is designed to be programmed to perform actions by the virtual creature; and bestowing means for bestowing at least one given value being added to said virtual creature when said diagnostic means determines that said virtual gene data satisfies a set of predetermined conditions. 15. The information processing device according to claim 14, wherein said virtual creature is sequentially created by means of mixing; and said value added is a pedigree of said virtual creature. 16. The information processing device according to claim 15, wherein said value added is an emblem corresponding to said pedigree. 17. The information processing device according to claim 14, comprising obtaining means for obtaining said gene data via a network. 18. An information processing method, comprising: a first step of diagnosing gene data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors of a virtual creature that can be expressed as data and is designed to be programmed to perform actions by the virtual creature; and a second step of bestowing at least one given value being added to said virtual creature when said first step determines that said virtual gene data satisfies a set of predetermined conditions. 19. The information processing method according to claim 18, wherein: said virtual creature is sequentially created by means of mixing; and said value added is a pedigree of said virtual creature. 20. The information processing method according to claim 19, wherein said value added is an emblem corresponding to said pedigree. 21. The information processing method according to claim 18, wherein said first step is to obtain said gene data via a network. 22. A program for making a computer execute processing, comprising: a first step of diagnosing gene data which regulates the shape and/or behaviors of a virtual creature that can be expressed as data and is designed to be programmed to perform actions by the virtual creature; and a second step of bestowing at least one given value being added to said virtual creature when said first step determines that said virtual gene data satisfies a set of predetermined conditions. 23. The program according to claim 22, wherein: said virtual creature is sequentially created by means of mixing; and said value added is a pedigree of said virtual creature. 24. The program according to claim 23, wherein said value added is an emblem corresponding to said pedigree. 25. The program according to claim 22, wherein said first step is to obtain said gene data via a network. 26. An information processing device, comprising: a storage means for storing information on parents of each of virtual creatures, said virtual creatures being represented as data and have been sequentially created by means of mixing; and an inquiring means disposed to access the storage means for inquiring into a pedigree of a designated virtual creature, based on said information of said parents of each of said virtual creatures. 27. The information processing device according to claim 26, comprising certificate issuing means for issuing a certificate on said pedigree of said virtual creature designated, based on the inquiry result obtained by said inquiring means. 28. An information processing method, comprising: a first step of storing information on parents of each of a set of registered virtual creatures as data and have been sequentially created by means of mixing; and a second step of accessing the stored information to enquire into the pedigree of a designated virtual creature, based on said information on said parents of each of said virtual creatures. 29. The information processing device according to claim 28, comprising a third step of issuing a certificate on said pedigree of said virtual creature designated, based on the inquiry result obtained by said inquiring means. 30. A program for making a computer execute processing, comprising: a first step of storing information on parents of each of a set registered virtual creatures as data and have been sequentially created by means of mixing; and a second step of accessing the stored information to enquire into the pedigree of a designated virtual creature, based on said information on said parents of each of said virtual creatures. 31. The program according to claim 30, comprising a third step of issuing a certificate on said pedigree of said virtual creature designated, based on the inquiry result obtained by said inquiring means. 