The present invention provides for a semiconductor workpiece processing tool and methods for handling semiconductor workpiece therein. The semiconductor workpiece processing tool preferably includes an interface section comprising at least one interface module and a processing section comprising a plurality of processing modules for processing the semiconductor workpieces. The semiconductor workpiece processing tool may have a conveyor for transferring the semiconductor workpieces between the interface modules and the processing modules.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A semiconductor workpiece processing tool, comprising: an input/output station configured to carry a plurality of semiconductor workpieces; a workpiece conveyor having a workpiece transport unit, the workpiece transport unit having a carriage and an arm pivotably coupled to the carriage, the arm having a support member configured to carry a workpiece; a plurality of workpiece processing stations positioned adjacent to the workpiece conveyor, the workpiece processing stations being configured to process only one workpiece at a time, at least one of the workpiece processing stations including: a processing chamber coupled to a supply of processing fluid; and a workpiece support cantilevered over the processing chamber, the workpiece support being movable relative to the processing chamber between a first position for receiving a single workpiece and a second position for processing the single workpiece, the workpiece support having a moveable workpiece holder, the workpiece holder having multiple support elements positioned to contact a single workpiece and carry the single workpiece face-down for processing when the workpiece support is in the second position; and a controller operatively coupled to the workpiece conveyor, the controller being programmed with instructions directing the workpiece transport unit to move along the conveyor and access (a) the input/output station, and (b) one or more of the plurality of processing stations with the arm-mounted support member. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein the workpiece conveyer is linearly elongated and is positioned between two rows of processing stations. 3. The tool of claim 1 wherein the processing chamber is coupled to a source of electrochemical processing fluid and is configured to perform an electrochemical process on the workpiece. 4. The tool of claim 1 wherein the support elements of the workpiece support are coupled to a source of electrical potential. 5. The tool of claim 1 wherein the tool includes a chassis and wherein both the processing chamber and the workpiece support are carried by the chassis. 6. The tool of claim 1 wherein the support member is configured to carry the workpiece in a generally horizontal plane. 7. A semiconductor workpiece processing tool, comprising: an input/output station positioned to carry a plurality of semiconductor workpieces; a workpiece conveyor having a workpiece transport unit, the workpiece transport unit having a carriage and an arm pivotably coupled to the carriage, the arm having a support member configured to carry a workpiece; a plurality of workpiece processing stations positioned adjacent to the workpiece conveyor, the processing stations being configured to process only one workpiece at a time, at least one of the workpiece processing stations including: a processing chamber coupled to a supply of processing fluid, the processing chamber being changeable between a first configuration and a second configuration, the processing chamber being accessible to the workpiece transport unit when in the first configuration to receive a single workpiece, the processing chamber being inaccessible to the workpiece transport unit when in the second configuration to process the single workpiece, the processing chamber having support means for carrying a single workpiece in a generally horizontal position for processing; controller means for controlling motion of the workpiece transport unit, the control means being configured to direct the workpiece transport unit to move along the conveyor and access (a) the input/output station, and (b) one or more of the plurality of processing stations with the arm-mounted support member. 8. The tool of claim 7 wherein the workpiece conveyer is linearly elongated and is positioned between two rows of processing stations. 9. The tool of claim 7 wherein the processing chamber is coupled to a source of electrochemical processing fluid and is configured to perform an electrochemical process on the workpiece. 10. The tool of claim 7 wherein the support elements of the workpiece support are coupled to a source of electrical potential. 11. The tool of claim 7 wherein the tool includes a chassis and wherein both the processing chamber and the workpiece support are carried by the chassis. 12. The tool of claim 7 wherein the support member is configured to carry the workpiece in a generally horizontal plane. 