This invention pertains to a polishing apparatus for polishing a semiconductor wafer. The apparatus comprises a storage section that is capable of receiving a workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece. The polishing unit that polishes the workpiece includes a primary polishing table and a secondary polishing table, wherein the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table is constructed to be arranged such that at least a portion of a surface of the workpiece being polished by the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table extends beyond an edge of the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table. Also provided is a film thickness measuring device, which measures the thickness of a film formed on a polished workpiece while the polished workpiece is held by a top ring above a pusher.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A polishing apparatus comprising: polishing tables; a top ring device including top rings, each of said top rings for holding a workpiece during a polishing operation; a temporary storage station for receiving a workpiece to be polished or a polished workpiece; and a pusher for transferring the workpiece to be polished or the polished workpiece between said top ring device and said pusher, wherein said top ring device is constructed and arranged such that when one of said top rings is positioned above said pusher, to receive a workpiece to be polished therefrom, another of said top rings is positioned to hold a workpiece to allow this workpiece to be polished by one of said polishing tables. 2. A polishing apparatus comprising: polishing tables; a top ring device including top rings, each of said top rings for holding a workpiece during a polishing operation; a temporary storage station for receiving a workpiece to be polished or a polished workpiece; and a pusher for transferring the workpiece to be polished or the polished workpiece between said top ring device and said pusher, wherein said temporary storage station comprises a mechanism to prevent the polished workpiece from being dried. 3. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing table; at least one top ring for holding a workpiece during a polishing operation; cleaning units for cleaning a polished workpiece at multiple stages; and a temporary storage station for receiving a polished workpiece, wherein said temporary storage station comprises a spray nozzle for rinsing the polished workpiece. 4. The polishing apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising an additional spray nozzle, wherein said spray nozzle and said additional spray nozzle are to rinse both of top and bottom surfaces of the polished workpiece, respectively. 5. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing table; at least one top ring for holding a workpiece during a polishing operation; cleaning units for cleaning a polished workpiece at multiple stages; a temporary storage station for receiving a polished workpiece; and a first robot for transferring the polished workpiece to said temporary storage station; and a second robot for transferring the polished workpiece from said temporary storage station. 6. A polishing apparatus comprising: polishing tables; a top ring device including top rings, each of said top rings for holding a workpiece during a polishing operation; and a pusher for transferring a workpiece between said top ring device and said pusher, wherein one of said polishing tables is constructed and arranged to perform water polishing of a workpiece to thereby concurrently perform finishing and cleaning of this workpiece. 7. The polishing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said top ring device is constructed and arranged such that when one of said top rings is positioned above said pusher, to remove a workpiece therefrom, another of said top rings is positioned to hold a workpiece to allow this workpiece to be polished by one of said polishing tables. 8. The polishing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said top ring device comprises a support shaft, and a swing arm fixed to said support shaft and supporting said top rings. 9. The polishing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said polishing tables are provided around said support shaft so that said top rings can access all of said polishing tables by rotating said support shaft. 