Methods and apparatus for end effectors for performing surface lapping using a robotic system are provided. In one embodiment, a lapping system includes a robotic arm and a pneumatic end effector unit. The pneumatic end effector unit includes a first base attached to the robotic arm, a second base, a lapping pad attachable to the second base, and a pneumatic piston system coupled between the first and second bases. An abrasive pad is attached to the lapping pad with a layer of pitch. The pneumatic piston system includes a piston chamber, a piston being slideably received within the piston chamber, and a component for controlling air pressure within the piston chamber. A slurry system introduces a slurry compound into one of the second base or the lapping pad.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for lapping a surface, the system comprising: a robotic arm; and a pneumatic end effector unit, wherein the pneumatic end effector unit comprises: a first base attached to the robotic arm; a second base; a lapping medium attachable to the second base; a bumper coupled to the lapping medium; and a pneumatic piston system coupled between the first and second bases. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the lapping medium comprises an abrasive member adapted to engage the surface. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an abrasive pad; and a pitch for attaching the abrasive pad to the lapping medium. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the pneumatic piston system comprises: a piston chamber; a piston being slideably received within the piston chamber; and a component for controlling air pressure within the piston chamber. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the piston chamber is configured to guide the second base. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the second base comprises a latch for attaching the lapping medium to the second base. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a slurry system coupled to one of the second base or the lapping medium for introducing a slurry compound. 8. A lapping end effector, comprising: a first base attachable to a robotic arm; a second base; a flexible coupling member attachable to the second base; a bumper coupled to the flexible coupling member; and a pneumatic piston system coupled between the first and second bases. 9. The end effector of claim 8, further comprising: a flexible coupling member coupled between the lapping medium and the second base. 10. The end effector of claim 8, further comprising: an abrasive pad; and a pitch for attaching the abrasive pad to the lapping medium. 11. The end effector of claim 8, wherein the pneumatic piston system comprises: a piston chamber; a piston being slideably received within the piston chamber; and a component for controlling air pressure within the piston chamber. 12. The end effector of claim 11, wherein the piston chamber is configured to guide the second base. 13. The end effector of claim 8, wherein the second base comprises a latch for attaching the lapping medium to the second base. 14. The end effector of claim 8, further comprising a slurry system coupled to one of the second base or the lapping medium for introducing a slurry compound. 15. A lapping end effector for performing an operation on a surface of a workpiece, comprising: a first base attachable to a robotic arm; a second base attached to the first base; a lapping medium attached to the second base; and a flexible coupling system coupled between the lapping medium and the second bases, the flexible coupling system configured to flex to allow the lapping medium to at least partially conform to the surface of the workpiece such that an axis of rotation of the lapping medium is non-normal to the surface during performance of the operation. 16. The end effector of claim 15, wherein the first and second bases are coupled by a pneumatic piston system comprising: a piston chamber; a piston being slideably received within the piston chamber; and a component for controlling air pressure within the piston chamber. 17. The end effector of claim 15, wherein the second base comprises a latch for attaching the lapping medium to the second base. 