A robotic medical system comprises a medical instrument assembly having a retainer, a serial array of instruments disposed in the retainer, a chamber, and an instrument driver. The robotic medical system further comprises a user interface configured for generating at least one command signal, a drive unit coupled to the first mechanism, second mechanism, and instrument driver, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command signal(s), for directing the drive unit to linearly displace the array of instruments within the retainer, to displace a selected one of the instruments from the retainer into the chamber, and to distally advance the instrument driver within the chamber to engage the selected instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic medical system, comprising: a medical instrument assembly including a retainer having an axial passageway therethrough, an array of instruments disposed in the retainer, a chamber, a mechanism configured for displacing a selected one of the instruments from the retainer into the chamber, wherein the retainer has a lateral port in communication with the axial passageway and the chamber, and the mechanism is configured for displacing the selected instrument through the lateral port into the chamber, and an instrument driver; a drive unit coupled to the mechanism and instrument driver; and an electric controller configured for directing the drive unit to linearly displace the array of instruments within the retainer to thereby displace a selected one of the instruments from the retainer into the chamber and to distally advance the instrument driver within the chamber to engage the selected instrument. 2. The robotic medical system of claim 1, further comprising a user interface coupled to the controller, wherein the user interface is configured for receiving user commands and for communicating said user commands to the controller, and wherein the controller directs the drive unit in response to received user commands. 3. The robotic medical system of claim 2, wherein the controller, in response to a respective command signal, is configured for linearly displacing the array of instruments within the retainer. 4. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the instrument driver. 5. The robotic medical system of claim 1, further comprising a carriage on which the instrument driver is slidably disposed. 6. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 7. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the instruments have differing functions from one another. 8. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein each instrument has a respective end effector. 9. The robotic medical system of claim 8, wherein the end effector of at least one instrument is an articulating tool. 10. The robotic medical system of claim 2, wherein the medical instrument assembly further comprises an outlet guide tube extending distally from the chamber, and wherein the controller, in response to a respective command signal, is configured for directing the drive unit to distally advance the instrument driver within the chamber to displace the engaged instrument from the chamber into the outlet guide tube. 11. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the retainer further comprises a lateral opening in communication with the passageway opposite the lateral port, and wherein the mechanism is configured for being displaced through the lateral opening to displace the selected instrument through the lateral port into the chamber. 