An apparatus for the treatment of semiconductor wafers, comprising a supportive frame and a process table arranged on the supportive frame. The process table comprises a stationary upper platen and a stationary lower plate. An intermediate indexing plate is rotatively arranged between the upper platen and the lower plate. At least one wafer support pin is attached to the indexing plate for the support of a wafer by the indexing plate. An upper housing is arranged on the upper platen and an outer lower housing is arranged on the lower plate. A displacable lower isolation chamber is disposed within the outer lower housing, being displacable against the indexing plate to define a treatment module between the upper housing and the lower isolation chamber in which the wafer is treated. A wafer supporting treatment plate is arranged within the lower isolation chamber, for controlled rapid treatment of a wafer within the treatment module.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of preparing semiconductor wafers, comprising: arranging a stationary upper platen and a stationary lower plate on a frame, with said upper platen having a plurality of upper housings spaced circumferentially therearound, and said lower plate having a corresponding plurality of lower housings spaced circumferentially therearound; rotatively supporting an indexable plate between said upper platen and said lower plate; loading a wafer to be treated onto an arrangement of support pins extending at least part way across said opening on said indexable plate; rotating said indexable plate between said upper platen and said lower plate for successive treatment process locations for treatment of said wafer; and isolating said wafer on said index plate at each treatment location for independent controlled access and treatment of said wafer thereat. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, including: lifting a treatment plate into direct supportive contact with said wafer to begin a step in said treatment of said wafer. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, including: arranging a plurality of grooves on said treatment plate to permit said pins to be received therewithin, to allow said wafer to be supportively touched by said treatment plate. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, including: arranging a lower isolation chamber within each of said lower housings; moving said lower isolation chamber with respect to said lower housing to define an isolated treatment module between said upper housing and said lower housing. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, including: moving said treatment plate and said lower isolation chamber simultaneously to initiate treatment of a wafer supported on said pins. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, including: heating said wafer in said isolated treatment module after said wafer has been lifted from said pins. 7. The method as recited in claim 6, including: chilling said wafer in said isolated treatment module after said wafer has been lifted from said pins. 8. The method as recited in claim 5, including: introducing a further treatment to said wafer at a successive isolated treatment module after said treatment plate has been lowered from support of said wafer and said index plate has been rotated to a subsequent position between said stationary upper platen and said stationary lower plate. 9. A method of preparing semiconductors, comprising: rotating a wafer bearing indexing plate into alignment between an upper housing on a stationary upper platen and a lower housing on a stationary lower plate; lifting a treatment plate into supportive engagement with said wafer borne by said indexing plate; isolating said wafer to provide an individual sealed containment thereof during a treatment process applied to said wafer; loading said wafer onto said indexing plate by a robotic arm arranged radially outwardly of said indexing plate, to minimize the complexity of such loading; suctioning said wafer against said treatment plate by a vacuum arranged within said treatment plate; and placing a wafer ring onto said indexing plate to support said wafer on said indexing plate; and arranging a plurality of radially directed pins on said wafer ring to support said wafer within said wafer support ring. 10. The method as recited in claim 9, including: lifting said wafer support ring from said indexing plate to properly engage said wafer by said treatment plate. 11. The method as recited in claim 9, including: arranging an opening on said indexing plate for receipt of said wafer; placing a plurality of radially directed pins on the periphery of said opening, to enable said pins to support said wafer during rotation of said indexing plate. 12. The method as recited in claim 9, including: forming grooves on an upper surface of said treatment plate to permit said pins to be received therein to allow said treatment plate to directly touch and support said wafer during treatment thereof. 13. The method as recited in claim 9, including: enclosing said treatment plate in a displacable lower isolation chamber; and moving said lower isolation chamber into sealing engagement with said indexing plate as said treatment plate is lifted into supportive engagement with said wafer. 