An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part. The apparatus includes a part support, a sprayer and a part measurer positioned adjacent to the part support and a display device positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures a dimension of the section of the part being coated. In one embodiment, an initial amount of coating and a final amount of coating are applied to the section of the part based on the dimension measurements and desired dimension of the part. In another embodiment, the amount of coating applied to the part is based on the desired coating thickness. As a result, the apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coating apparatus comprising: means for supporting a part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying an atomized coating to a section of the part; and means positioned adjacent to the support means for measuring the section of the part, wherein the measuring means measures a dimension of a section of the part being coated and the coating means applies an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said dimension measurements and desired final dimension of the section of the part, wherein the measuring means includes a laser generator and a laser receiver, said laser generator positioned adjacent to one side of the support means and said laser receiver positioned adjacent to an opposing side of the support means, wherein the laser generator and laser receiver are each mounted in housing means, wherein each housing means includes a transparent member connected to said housing, and which includes excess coating reducer means positioned adjacent to the transparent member of each housing. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support means includes a part support. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coating means includes at least one sprayer. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes means for displaying the dimension measurements of the section of the part. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, which includes means for displaying at least one dimensional tolerance level of the section of the part. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the excess coating reducer means includes at least one air mover. 9. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support adapted to support a part; a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support, said the laser generator operable to project a laser beam at a level of a section of the part supported by the part support, said laser receiver operable to receive portions of the laser beam not blocked by the section of the part to take measurements of said section of the part; a laser generator housing which includes a transparent member though which the laser beam passes through; an excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of the housing; and a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support, said sprayer operable to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on said measurements and desired dimension of the section of the part. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, which includes a laser receiver housing which includes a transparent member though which said portions of the laser beam passes through, and a second excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to said transparent member of said housing. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the excess coating reducer includes an air mover. 13. A coating apparatus comprising: a part support; a sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a part measurer including a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support and operable to measure a dimension of a section of a part supported by the part support and being coated by the sprayer based on said measurements and a desired dimension of the section of the part; a laser generator housing including a transparent member which protects the laser generator mounted in said housing; a first excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of said laser generator housing; a laser receiver housing including a transparent member which protects the laser receiver mounted in said housing; and a second excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of laser receiver housing. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the part support includes a conveyor. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first excess coating reducer includes an air mover. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the second excess coating reducer includes an air mover. 18. A coating apparatus comprising: means for supporting a part; means positioned adjacent to the support means for applying an atomized coating to a section of the part; means positioned adjacent to the support for measuring a section of the part, wherein the measuring means is operable to measure a parameter of the section of the part being coated and the coating means is operable to apply an amount of coating to the section of the part based on the parameter measurement and desired parameter measurement of the section of the part, wherein the measuring means is mounted in at least one housing which includes a transparent member; and excess coating reducer means positioned adjacent to said transparent member to reduce excess coating near the transparent member which could interfere with the measuring means. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the support means includes a part support. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the support means includes a conveyor. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the coating means includes at least one sprayer. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, which includes an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the support means. 23. The apparatus of claim 18, which includes means for displaying the parameter measurements. 24. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the parameter is at least one of: a dimension of a section of the part; a thickness of a coating applied to the section of the part; and a thickness of a plurality of coatings applied to the section of the part. 25. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the excess coating reducer means includes an air mover. 26. A coating apparatus comprising: a rotatable part support; at least one atomizing sprayer positioned adjacent to the part support; a coating communication line and an air communication line connected to each sprayer; a part measurer including a laser generator and a laser receiver positioned on opposing sides of the part support and operable to measure a dimension of a section of a part supported by the part support and being coated by the sprayer based on said measurements and a desired dimension of the section of the part; a laser generator housing including a transparent member which protects the laser generator mounted in said housing; a first excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of said laser generator housing; a laser receiver housing including a transparent member which protects the laser receiver mounted in said housing; a second excess coating reducer positioned adjacent to the transparent member of laser receiver housing; an exhaust duct positioned adjacent to the part support; a display device operable to display the dimension measurements of the section of the part. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein each of the sprayers is operable to apply a different coating to the section of the part. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the coatings include a base coating, a middle coating and a top coating. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein each of the sprayers includes a spray control which enables the sprayers to apply the coatings at different rates. 30. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the first excess coating reducer includes an air mover. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the second excess coating reducer includes an air mover. 