A system for inspecting the joint of a composite structure includes a transmitting transceiver and a receiving transceiver, as well as a processing element. Typically, the composite structure includes first and second panels that are connected to define the joint, with the second panel extending outwardly from the first panel of the joint. Moreover, the composite structure includes a filler disposed at the joint. The transmitting transducer is disposed proximate an input side of the second panel and can transmit an ultrasonic signal into the second panel such that at least a portion of the signal reflects off of the first panel at the joint and exits an output side of the second panel. A receiving transducer disposed proximate the output side of the second panel can receive a reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal. And a processing element is capable of identifying a defect in the composite structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for inspecting a joint in a composite structure that includes first and second panels that are connected thereby defining the joint, wherein the second panel at least partially extend outwardly from the first panel at the joint, and wherein the composite structure further includes filler disposed at the joint, said system comprising: a transmitting transducer disposed proximate an input side of the second panel, said transmitting transducer being capable of transmitting an ultrasonic signal into the second panel such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at the joint and exits an output side of the second panel, wherein the input and output sides are on opposite sides of the second panel and are located on a common side of the first panel; a receiving transducer disposed proximate the output side of the second panel, said receiving transducer being capable of receiving the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal; and a processing element in electrical communication with the transmitting and receiving transducers, wherein the transmitting and receiving transducers are capable of being guided along a length and a height of the joint such that the processing element is capable of identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship of the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal received by said receiving transducer to a predetermined threshold. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the filler is disposed between and at least partially contacts both the first and second panels, wherein said transmitting transducer is capable of transmitting an ultrasonic signal into the filler at an interface of the filler and the second panel such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at an interface of the first panel and the filler. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said processing element is capable of identifying a defect based upon a comparison of the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal and the predetermined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the ultrasonic signal transmitted by said transmitting transducer. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein said processing element is capable of identifying a defect when the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the ultrasonic signal transmitted by said transmitting transducer. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein the second panel defines a gap at the joint, wherein the filler is disposed within the gap, and wherein said transmitting transducer is capable of transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the filler within the gap such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off the first panel at an interface of the filler and the first panel. 6. A system according to claim 5, wherein the second panel includes a base portion, an upstanding portion and a fillet portion joining the base and upstanding portions, wherein the base portion is disposed parallel to the first panel and the upstanding portion extends outwardly from the first panel, and herein said transmitting transducer is capable of transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the filler at the fillet portion of the second panel. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein the first and second panels each comprise a plurality of plies that are adhesively bonded together, wherein the second panel includes two opposed sheets, wherein each sheet comprises a plurality of plies and has a base portion, an upstanding portion and a fillet portion joining the base and upstanding portions, wherein the base portions of the sheets are disposed parallel to the first panel and diverge from one another, and the upstanding portions extend outwardly from the first panel, and wherein said transmitting transducer is capable of transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the fillet portion of one of the sheets such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at the joint and exits the fillet portion of the other sheet. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein the fillet portions of the sheets of the second panel define a gap at the joint, wherein the filler is disposed within the gap, and wherein said transmitting transducer is capable of transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the filler within the gap such that at least portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off the first panel at an interface of the filler and the first panel. 9. A system according to claim 1 further comprising a scanning assembly electrically connected to said processing element, wherein said transmitting and receiving transducers are secured to said scanning assembly such that said scanning assembly guides said transmitting and receiving transducers along the joint. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein said scanning assembly comprises: a yoke having one end disposed proximate the input side of the second panel and another end disposed proximate the output side of the second panel, wherein said transmitting transducer is secured to the end of the yoke proximate the input side, and wherein said receiving transducer is secured to the end of the yoke proximate the output side; and a guide assembly capable of moving said yoke relative to the composite structure. 11. A method for inspecting a joint in a composite structure comprising: providing a composite structure that includes first and second panels that are connected thereby defining a joint, wherein the second panel extends outwardly from the first panel at the joint, and wherein the composite structure further includes a filler disposed at the joint; guiding a transmitting transducer and a receiving transducer along a length and a height of the joint, and while guiding the transmitting and receiving transducers, transmitting an ultrasonic signal from the transmitting transducer into an input side of the second panel such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at the joint and exits an output side of the second panel, wherein the input and output sides are on opposite sides of the second panel and are located on a common side of the first panel; receiving the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal at the receiving transducer on the output side of the second panel; and identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship between the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal received and a predetermined threshold. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the filler is disposed between and at least partially contact both the first and second panels, wherein transmitting an ultrasonic signal comprises transmitting an ultrasonic signal into the filler at an interface of the filler and the second panel such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at an interface of the second panel and the filler. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein identifying a defect comprises identifying the defect based upon a comparison of the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal and the predetermined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the ultrasonic signal transmitted. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein identifying a defect comprises identifying the defect when the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the ultrasonic signal transmitted. 15. A method according to claim 11, wherein providing the composite structure comprises providing a composite structure including a second panel that defines a gap at the joint, wherein the filler is disposed within the gap, and transmitting an ultrasonic signal comprises transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the filler within the gap such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off the first panel at an interface of the filler and the first panel. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein providing the composite structure comprises providing a composite structure including a second panel that includes a base portion, an upstanding portion and fillet portion joining the base and upstanding portions, wherein the base portion is disposed parallel to the first panel and the upstanding portion extends outwardly from the first panel, and wherein transmitting an ultrasonic signal comprises transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the filler at the fillet portion of the second panel. 17. A method according to claim 11, wherein transmitting an ultrasonic signal comprises selecting a first predetermined point on the input side of the second panel and thereafter transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the predetermined point such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at the joint, and wherein receiving the reflected portion comprises receiving the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal at an associated point on the output side o the second panel, said method further comprising: repeatedly selecting different points on the input side of the second panel, wherein transmitting the ultrasonic signal an receiving the reflected portion occur for each point selected, wherein identifying a defect comprises identifying a defect at each point based upon a relationship between the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal received at the respective associated point and a predetermine threshold. 18. A method for inspecting a joint in a composite structure comprising: providing a composite structure that includes first and second panels that are connected thereby defining a joint, wherein the second panel includes two opposing sheets, wherein each sheet has a base portion, an upstanding portion and a fillet portion joining the base and upstanding portions, wherein the base portions of the sheets are disposed parallel to the first panel on a common side of the first panel and diverge from one another, and the upstanding portions extend outwardly from the first panel, wherein the fillet portions define a gap between the second panel and the first panel at the joint, and wherein the composite structure further includes a filler disposed in the gap; guiding a transmitting transducer and a receiving transducer along a length and a height of the joint, and while guiding the transmitting and receiving transducers, transmitting an ultrasonic signal from the transmitting transducer into the filler at the fillet portion of one of the sheets of the second panel such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at the joint and exits the second panel at the fillet portion of the other sheet; receiving the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal at the receiving transducer; and identifying a defect in the composite structure based upon a relationship of the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal received to a predetermined threshold. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein the filler is disposed between and at least partially contact both the first and second panels, wherein transmitting an ultrasonic signal comprises transmitting an ultrasonic signal into the filler at an interface of the filler and the second panel such that at least a portion of the ultrasonic signal reflects off of the first panel at an interface of the first panel and the filler. 20. A method according to claim 18, wherein identifying a defect comprises identifying the defect based upon a comparison of the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal and the predetermined threshold, and wherein the predetermined threshold is based upon the ultrasonic signal transmitted. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein identifying a defect comprises identifying the defect when the reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal is less than a predetermined percentage of the ultrasonic signal transmitted. 22. A method according to claim 18, wherein the fillet portions of the sheets of the second panel define a longitudinally extending gap, wherein transmitting an ultrasonic signal comprises selecting a first predetermined point on the fillet portion of an input sheet of the second panel and thereafter transmitting the ultrasonic signal into the first predetermined point, said method further comprising: repeatedly selecting points longitudinally spaced from the first predetermined point on the fillet portion of the input sheet of the second panel along the length of the gap, wherein transmitting the ultrasonic signal and receiving the reflected portion occur for each point selected, wherein identifying a defect comprises identifying a defect at each point based upon a relationship between each reflected portion of the ultrasonic signal received and a predetermined threshold. 23. A method according to claim 22 further comprising selecting, for each longitudinally spaced point, a plurality of points spaced apart in a transverse direction, wherein transmitting the ultrasonic signal and receiving the reflected portion occur for each point selected. 