A tray for handling and retaining a plurality of components, wherein the tray has a rigid body portion and an elastomeric contact layer. The contact layer has a planar upper surface for contacting and retaining the components, and may be formed from a thermoplastic material having a surface energy between 20 dyne/cm and 100 dyne/cm, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 ohms/square and 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tray for handling and retaining a plurality of small microelectronics components comprising: a plastic rigid body portion comprising a plurality of component containing regions; and an elastomeric contact layer molded onto the rigid body portion component containing regions, the elastomeric contact layer having a downwardly facing concealed surface continuously contacting the rigid body portion and a planar upper surface for contacting and retaining the components, said contact layer being formed from a thermoplastic material having a surface energy between about 20 dyne/cm and about 100 dyne/cm and a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75 wherein said elastomeric contact layer has a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 ohms/square and 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square and has an adhesivity sufficient to keep a small microelectronics component in place on the contact layer when said tray is inverted such that the elastomeric contact surface faces downward. 2. The tray of claim 1, wherein said elastomeric contact layer is formed from a thermoplastic elastomer material. 3. The tray of claim 2, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is selected from the group of thermoplastic elastomers consisting of urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, and polyether block polyamide. 4. The tray of claim 2, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is a thermoplastic vulcanizate. 5. The tray of claim 2, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is alloyed with an inherently static dissipative polymer or an inherently conductive polymer. 6. The tray of claim 2, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material contains a filler material. 7. The tray of claim 6, wherein said filler material is an inorganic, conductive material. 8. The tray of claim 7, wherein said inorganic conductive material is carbon fiber, carbon powder, metallic particulate, or ceramic particulate. 9. The tray of claim 6, wherein said filler material is an organic material. 10. The tray of claim 9, wherein said organic material is quaternary ammonium salt, sulfonium salt, alkyl sulfonate, alkyl sulfate, alkyl phosphate, ethanol amide, ethanol amine, or fatty amine. 11. The tray of claim 1, wherein said contact layer has a multiplicity of depressions or projections formed thereon for reducing the adhesiveness thereof. 12. The tray of claim 1, wherein said body portion is formed from a rigid thermoplastic material selected from the group of rigid thermoplastic materials consisting of acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, and styrene acrylonitrile. 13. The tray of claim 1, wherein said rigid body portion is formed from rigid polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, polyamide, or nylon. 14. The tray of claim 1, further comprising a tie layer interposed between said body portion and said downwardly facing concealed surface. 15. The tray of claim 1, wherein said contact layer is formed from a thermoplastic material having a surface energy of between about 30 dyne/cm and about 45 dyne/cm. 16. The tray of claim 1, wherein said contact layer is formed from a thermoplastic material having a surface energy of about 40 dyne/cm. 17. The tray of claim 1, wherein said body portion has a peripheral border region and a downwardly projecting skirt portion, and wherein said skirt portion is adapted to engage the peripheral border region of a separate tray when the trays are stacked. 18. The tray of claim 1, wherein said rigid body portion has a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 19. The tray of claim 1, wherein said rigid body portion is electrically conductive. 20. The tray of claim 1, further comprising a grid portion disposed on said upper surface of said contact layer, said grid portion defining a plurality of individual component receiving regions. 21. A chip tray in combination with a plurality of components to be retained thereby, comprising: a plurality of components, each presenting a surface; and a chip tray comprising: a rigid, generally planar, plastic body portion having an upper surface; and a contact layer of thermoplastic elastomer material having a downwardly facing concealed surface continuously molded on said upper surface for contacting and retaining the plurality of components, said contact layer having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter to about 100 dyne/centimeter and a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, each component being laterally and vertically restrained in place exclusively by adhesion with said contact layer when the surface of the component is contacted with the contact layer, and wherein the adhesion is at least sufficient so that each component remains in place on the contact layer when said tray is inverted wherein said contact layer has a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 22. The combination of claim 21, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is selected from the group consisting of urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, polyether block polyamide, and polypropylene/crosslinked EDPM rubber. 23. The combination of claim 21, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer contains a filler material. 24. The combination of claim 23, wherein said filler material is carbon fiber, carbon powder, metallic particulate, or ceramic particulate. 25. The combination of claim 23, wherein said filler material is an organic material. 26. The combination of claim 21, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer material is alloyed with an inherently static dissipative polymer or an inherently conductive polymer. 27. The combination of claim 21, wherein said contact layer has a multiplicity of depressions or projections formed thereon for reducing the adhesiveness thereof. 28. The combination of claim 21, wherein said body portion is formed from a rigid thermoplastic material selected from the group of rigid thermoplastic materials consisting of acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, and styrene acrylonitrile. 29. The combination of claim 21, wherein said rigid body portion is formed from rigid polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, polyamide, or nylon. 30. The combination of claim 21, further comprising a tie layer interposed between said body portion and said contact layer. 31. The combination of claim 21, wherein said contact layer has a surface energy of between about 30 dyne/cm and about 45 dyne/cm. 32. The combination of claim 21, wherein said contact layer has a surface energy of about 40 dyne/cm. 33. The combination of claim 21, wherein said body portion has a peripheral border region and a downwardly projecting skirt portion, and wherein said skirt portion is adapted to engage the peripheral border region of a separate tray when the trays are stacked. 34. The tray of claim 21, further comprising a grid portion disposed on said contact layer, said grid portion defining a plurality of individual component receiving regions. 35. A method of making a tray for handling and retaining a plurality of small components comprising the steps of: forming a rigid body portion from plastic material, said body portion having an upper surface; and forming a contact layer by molding a contact layer comprising a thermoplastic elastomer on said upper surface, the thermoplastic elastomer having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter and about 100 dyne/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square, said contact layer having sufficient adhesion so as to retain each of the plurality of components when said tray is inverted. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising the step of forming a plurality of mechanical bonding structures on said upper surface of said rigid body portion for mechanical binding to the molded contact layer. 37. The method of claim 35 wherein said body portion is formed from rigid polyethylene, polypropylene, or a fluoropolymer, and further comprising the step of surface treating said upper surface of said body portion with a corona, plasma, flame, or chemical treatment process. 38. The method of claim 35, further comprising the step of forming an intermediate tie layer between said body portion upper surface and said contact layer. 39. The method of claim 35, further comprising the steps of forming a grid member for defining a plurality of individual component contact regions on said contact layer and affixing said grid member to said contact layer. 40. A tray for handling and retaining a plurality of components comprising: a rigid, generally planar, plastic body portion having an upper surface; and means on said upper surface for retaining each of said plurality of components, said means comprising a material continuously molded to the rigid, generally planar, body portion and providing at least a sufficient retentive force to the component so that the component is retained in place exclusively by said means when said tray is inverted, wherein said means for retaining a plurality of components comprises a contact layer of thermoplastic elastomer material, said layer having a surface energy of between about 30 dynes/centimeter and about 45 dynes/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of between about 1.times.10.sup.4 and 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square. 41. The tray of claim 40, wherein said thermoplastic elastomer is selected from the group consisting of urethane, polybutylene terephthalate, polyolefin, polyethylene terephthalate, styrenic block co-polymer, styrene-butadiene rubber, polyether block polyamide, and polypropylene/crosslinked EDPM rubber. 42. The tray of claim 40, wherein said contact layer has a multiplicity of depressions or projections formed therein for reducing the adhesiveness thereof. 43. The tray of claim 40, wherein said body portion is formed from acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, polycarbonate, urethane, polyphenylene sulfide, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate, polyetherketone, polyetheretherketone, polyetherketoneketone, polyether imide, polysulfone, styrene acrylonitrile, polyethylene, polypropylene, fluoropolymer, polyolefin, polyamide, or nylon. 44. A method for retaining a plurality of components on a chip tray comprising: providing a plurality of components, each presenting a surface; providing a chip tray comprising a rigid, thermoplastic body portion having an upper surface, and a contact layer on said upper surface, said contact layer comprising a thermoplastic elastomer having a downwardly facing concealed surface continuously molded to the upper surface, with the elastomer having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter and about 100 dyne/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square; and placing each of said plurality of components in contact with said contact layer, each of said plurality of components being retained in place exclusively by adhesion with said contact layer. 45. A system of stackable chip trays in combination with a plurality of components to be retained in said chip trays, the combination comprising: a plurality of components, each presenting a surface; and a plurality of chip trays, each tray comprising: a generally planar rigid body portion having an upper surface overlain by a contact layer in continuous contact with the upper surface, said body portion having a peripheral border region and at least one downwardly projecting structure for engaging the peripheral border region of a separate one of said plurality of trays when the trays are stacked, the contact layer being formed from a thermoplastic elastomer material and having a surface energy of between about 20 dyne/centimeter and about 100 dyne/centimeter, a hardness of between about Shore A15 and about Shore D75, and a surface electrical resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.4 to about 1.times.10.sup.12 ohms/square, wherein each component of said plurality is laterally and vertically restrained in place exclusively by adhesion with said contact layer when the surface of the component is contacted with said contact layer, and wherein the adhesion is sufficient so that the component remains in place on the contact layer when the tray is inverted. 