A mold manufacturing system includes confining environmentally controlled applying operations to but a few area or a single area. The process airflow generated therefrom includes a substantially constant low flow with a high concentration of HAPs which maintains an auto-fired oxidizer system to provide more efficient and less expensive operation thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mold manufacturing system comprising: a closed circuit; a plurality of open molds that transit along said closed circuit; a plurality of Zones located along said closed circuit to perform a predetermined series of operations to each of said plurality of open molds, one of said plurality of Zones comprising an environmentally controlled applying operation which generates a process airflow, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through the environmentally controlled applying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap; an oxidizer; and an exhaust system which communicates said process airflow from said environmentally controlled applying operation to said oxidizer, said process airflow providing a concentration of air pollutants which maintains auto-fire within said oxidizer. 2. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said closed circuit passes though a booth a plurality of times. 3. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said plurality of open molds transit along said closed circuit for a plurality of laps such that said plurality of open molds pass through said environmentally controlled applying operation a plurality of times. 4. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said environmentally controlled applying operation comprises a spray operation. 5. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said process airflow contains a concentration of air pollutants between 300 400 parts per million. 6. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said process airflow contains a concentration of air pollutants between 300 350 parts per million. 7. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said process airflow contains a concentration of air pollutants of approximately 313 parts per million. 8. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said air pollutants comprise styrene. 9. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said wherein said process airflow contains a concentration of air pollutants between 300 400 parts per million, said air pollutants comprise styrene without auxiliary fuel gas. 10. A multi-lap mold manufacturing system comprising: a closed circuit; a plurality of open molds that transit about the closed circuit for a plurality of laps; a plurality of Zones located along said closed circuit to perform predetermined series of operations to each of said plurality of open molds relative to which lap each of the plurality of molds has completed, one of said plurality of Zones comprising an applying Zone located along said closed circuit to perform an environmentally controlled applying operation during each of said plurality of laps the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through the environmentally controlled applying operation as multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap; an oxidizer; and an exhaust system which communicates said process airflow from said applying Zone to said oxidizer, said process airflow providing a concentration of air pollutants which maintain auto-fire within said oxidizer. 11. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 10, wherein said air pollutants comprise styrene. 12. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 10, wherein said process airflow contains a concentration of air pollutants between 300 400 parts per million. 13. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 12, wherein said air pollutants comprise styrene. 14. A mold manufacturing system comprising: a central booth comprising a first and a second booth area about a common exhaust plenum; a closed circuit passing though said first and said second booth area; a plurality of open molds that transit along said closed circuit; a plurality of Zones located along said closed circuit to perform a predetermined series of operations to each of said plurality of open molds, a first Zone of said plurality of Zones comprising a first environmentally controlled applying operation performed within said first booth area and a second Zone of said plurality of Zones comprising a second environmentally controlled applying operation performed within said second booth area, said first and second environmentally controlled applying operation generating a process airflow into said common exhaust plenum, the predetermined series of operations including transiting the plurality of open molds through the first and second environmentally controlled applying operation as a multiple of sets in which each set includes a reoccurring sequence of open molds in which each open mold within each set is on a different lap; an oxidizer; and an exhaust system which communicates said process airflow from common exhaust plenum to said oxidizer, said process airflow providing a concentration of air pollutants which maintain auto-fire within said oxidizer. 15. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 14, wherein said closed circuit comprises a leg extending between an exit of said first booth area and an entry of said second booth area. 16. The mold manufacturing system as recited in claim 15, further comprising a curing queue along said leg. 