A dispensing nozzle for dispensing anaerobic adhesives/sealants in an automated dispensing system, is provided. More specifically, the nozzle having a hollow body with an entry port and an exit port, the body having a wall with an internal wall surface which defines an elongate conduit arranged about a longitudinal axis of the nozzle, and linking the entry port to the exit port, where at the exit port the internal wall surface alternates in distance from the axis of the nozzle between axis proximate positions and axis distal positions, thereby forming a dispensing opening in the exit port of non-circular cross sectional area. The wall is flexible radially outwardly in the regions of the axis proximate positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated dispensing system for dispensing anaerobic adhesive/sealant in bead form to a substrate, said system incorporating a dispensing nozzle moveably carried on a robotic arm for movement of the nozzle about the substrate, the nozzle having a hollow body with an entry port and an exit port, the body having a wall with an internal wall surface which defines an elongate conduit arranged about a longitudinal axis of the nozzle, and linking the entry port to the exit port, wherein at the exit port the internal wall surface alternates in distance from the axis between axis proximate positions and axis distal positions, thereby forming a dispensing opening in the exit port of non-circular cross sectional area, the axis proximate positions of the internal wall surface being disposed on a notional circle which defines a central dispensing region of the dispensing opening. 2. A system according to claim 1 incorporating a nozzle wherein the wall of the body in the regions of the axis proximate positions is flexible radially outwardly. 3. A system according to claim 1 incorporating a nozzle wherein the wall of the body is of generally uniform wall thickness around the exit port, so that the external wall surface extends generally parallel to the internal wall surface and the wall alternates in distance from the axis between axis proximate positions and axis distal positions. 4. A system according to claim 1 incorporating a nozzle wherein the exit port comprises a dispensing region of substantially non-circular cross-section formed by the body wall, with ribs on the outer surface of the body resulting from the formation of the axis distal positions of the wall, and valleys between the ribs corresponding to the axis proximate positions of the wall, the ribs and valleys extending axially inwardly from the dispensing opening to form a ribbed portion of the wall. 5. A system according to claim 4 incorporating a nozzle wherein the ribbed portion of the body wall tapers towards the dispensing opening. 6. A system according to claim 1 incorporating a nozzle wherein the body wall defining the dispensing opening is continuous. 7. A system according to claim 1 incorporating a nozzle wherein the alternating in distance of the wall from the axis forms a dispensing opening having a plurality of lobes extending radially from the axis, the lobes being spaced circumferentially about the axis. 8. A system according to claim 7 incorporating a nozzle having at least three lobes equally spaced about the axis. 9. A system according to claim 7 incorporating a nozzle wherein the plurality of axis distal positions of the internal wall surface define apexes of respective lobes. 10. A system according to claim 7 incorporating a nozzle wherein the axis proximate positions of the internal wall surface define therebetween a plurality of mouths of lobes, each mouth being defined by the region between two adjacent axis proximate positions. 11. A system according to claim 7 incorporating a nozzle 7 wherein ribs are formed in the body wall at the axis distal positions, and valley regions are formed in the wall between the lobes. 12. A system according to claim 11 incorporating a nozzle wherein the valley regions of the wall are flexible radially outwardly. 13. A system according to claim 1 for dispensing a viscous anaerobic adhesive/sealant containing air bubbles. 14. A system according to claim 1 for dispensing anaerobic adhesive/sealant from a storage container to a substrate, the entry port of which optionally forming an integral part of the storage container or alternatively being connectable to the system, optionally via a pump and adapted to be in fluid communication with the storage container. 15. A system according to claim 14 used in the automotive industry to apply gasketing material to an automotive component, the applied gasketing material forming a gasket on the automotive component. 16. A system according to claim 1 incorporating a nozzle which is formed from a plastics material or an elastomeric material, the material enabling a degree of compliance or flexibility of a nozzle end portion in the regions of the axis proximate positions adjacent to the exit port. 17. An automated dispensing system according to claim 1 wherein the system further comprises a storage container for the fluid to be dispensed, and a pump for delivering the fluid to the nozzle. 18. An automated dispensing system according to claim 17 wherein the pump is a volumetric pump. 19. An automated dispensing system according to claim 17 wherein the pump is carried on the robotic arm and is directly connected to the nozzle. 20. A process for using a system according to claim 1 in the automated dispensing of an anaerobic adhesive/sealant onto a substrate, steps of which comprise: pumping anaerobic adhesive/sealant from a storage container to a nozzle as defined in claim 1; moving the nozzle on a robotic arm about the substrate; dispensing the adhesive/sealant from the nozzle to the substrate through the dispensing opening of non-circular cross sectional area at the exit port of the nozzle; permitting the central dispensing region of the dispensing opening to expand to free a particle in the adhesive/sealant which may block the exit port; and forming a bead of adhesive/sealant on the substrate. 21. A method of forming a bead of adhesive on a substrate which comprises applying the adhesive by means of an automated dispensing system according to claim 1. 22. In an automated dispensing system for dispensing an anaerobic adhesive/sealant in bead form as a sealant in the provision of gaskets in the automotive industry, a nozzle according to claim 1. 