A device for gripping, holding, and releasing objects of varying sizes and shapes, which comprises an elongated torus (30) enclosing a fluid material (31), an external control rod (40), and an internal control rod (38). Torus (30) may be made of a flexible membrane and able to seal in fluid material (31). Fluid material (31) can be a gas, liquid, solid particles, semisolid particles, or mixtures of these. Central channel (34) of torus (30) is collapsed due to pressure of fluid material (31) within torus (30). Both control rods are securely attached to torus (30), with rod (38) attached to the interior portion of the torus along collapsed central channel (34), and rod (40) attached to the exterior portion of the torus on outer surface (32). Gripping action is achieved by differential linear motion of control rods (38) and (40) along the longitudinal (elongated) axis of torus (30). This causes front portion (36) of the torus to slide radially inward or outward to grip objects. Further movement of the control rods can cause the object to be pulled completely inside the collapsed channel for secure gripping by completely surrounding the object. The soft flexible nature of torus (30) allows grasping even the most delicate objects without damaging them. Even over-ripe strawberries can be rapidly grasped without bruising.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical gripper for gripping and releasing objects of random size and orientation, comprising: a first and second substantially torus shaped membrane each having a symmetric axis, wherein the first and second torus shaped membranes are elongated parallel to their respective symmetric axis, each torus with a front end, a rear end, an expanded exterior portion and a central channel portion, wherein the symmetric axis of the first torus shaped membrane is substantially parallel with the symmetric axis of the second torus shaped membrane; said first and second torus shaped membranes enclosing an interior volume filled with a fluid material; said first and second torus shaped membranes being sufficiently flexible to allow the central channel portion of each torus shaped membrane to be rotated to the position of the exterior portion of the torus; wherein the second torus shaped membrane is positioned substantially inside the first torus shaped membrane, wherein the expanded exterior portion of the second torus shaped membrane is substantially connected to the central channel portion of the first torus shaped membrane, and a control means attached to said first and/or second torus shaped membrane for mechanically moving said central channel portion and said expanded exterior portion of said first and/or second torus shaped membrane in opposite directions with respect to each other and parallel to the symmetric axis, thereby generating a radial sliding motion of the membrane at said front end of each tori for gripping and releasing objects. 2. The mechanical gripper in claim 1, wherein: said control means is defined by a first and second control members each with a first and second end, wherein said first end of said first control members is attached to the central channel portion of the second torus and said first end of said second control member is attached to the exterior portion of the second torus, wherein said second end of both control members extend beyond said rear end of the first torus and designed for attachment to a mechanical arm with an actuator; and wherein, at least one of said first and second control members is connected to and movable by said actuator on said mechanical arm, whereby the actuator can provide differential movement of the control members parallel to the symmetric axis of the torus for grasping objects. 3. The mechanical gripper in claim 2, wherein: said first control member provides control surfaces that mechanically reshapes said central channel portion of the second torus membrane, whereby the central channel can be widened to allow objects entry to the central channel before closing the torus around it and substantial reducing the "net force" on the object being grasped. 4. The mechanical gripper in claim 2, further including: a third control member attached to said expanded exterior portion of the first torus, whereby actuation of the three control members allow substantially independent control of both tori. 5. The mechanical gripper in claim 1, wherein: said second substantially torus shaped membrane is nested coaxially inside the first torus shaped membrane. 6. The mechanical gripper in claim 1, wherein: said control means is adapted for attachment to a robotic arm; and wherein said robotic arm has at least one actuator designed to connect to said control means for actuating said control means and producing said radial sliding motion. 7. The mechanical gripper in claim 1, further including: a tool element mounted to said control means for use in the operation of the mechanical gripper. 8. The mechanical gripper in claim 7, wherein: said tool element comprises a shaping section mounted substantially within said central channel portion of either tori, whereby the central channel's shape is locally expanded and/or contracted by the shaping section. 9. The mechanical gripper claim 7, wherein: said tool element comprises an optical sensor mounted within said central channel portion of the second torus and moveable by the control means to alternately protrude and retract said optical sensor from the front end of the second torus for viewing objects to be gripped. 10. The mechanical gripper in claim 1, further including: a housing attached to at least one of the torus shaped membranes to provide structural support for said mechanical gripper; and a tool element mounted on said housing and providing additional functions for the mechanical gripper. 11. The mechanical gripper in claim 1, further including: a shaping means attached to the mechanical gripper and in contact with one or both said torus shaped membranes, wherein the shape of one or both of the tori can be modified by forces exerted on it by said shaping means during use. 12. A robotic hand for gripping and releasing objects of random size and orientation, comprising: a first and second substantially torus shaped membranes elongated along their symmetric axis with an enclosed interior volume defined by each membrane and filled with a fluid material; wherein said first torus shaped membrane comprises an inner portion which forms a first channel substantially along said symmetric axis, an outer portion encircling said inner portion of the first torus, and two end portions where the membrane transitions between its inner and outer portions; wherein said second torus shaped membrane comprises an inner portion which forms a collapsed channel substantially along said symmetric axis, an outer portion encircling said inner portion, and two end portions where the membrane transitions between the inner and outer portions; wherein both torus shaped membranes are constructed of a material sufficiently flexible to allow the inner portion of each torus to rotate and change places with its respective outer portion; wherein, the second torus shaped membrane is nested coaxially within the first torus shaped membrane with the outer portion of the second torus substantially in contact with the inner portion of the first torus shaped membrane; a housing attached to at least one of the torus shaped membranes for supporting said robotic hand; and an actuator substantially connected to said first and/or second torus membranes and designed to mechanically generate opposed sliding movement of said inner and outer portions of the first and/or second torus shaped membrane when actuated by said actuator, thereby causing a radial sliding of said end portions as the torus membrane transitions between the outer and inner portions of the torus for gripping. 13. The robotic hand in claim 12, further including: a tool element mounted to said actuator for use in the operation of the robotic hand. 14. The robotic hand in claim 13, wherein: said tool element comprises a shaping section mounted within said collapsed channel, whereby the collapsed channel's shape is locally expanded by the shaping section. 15. The robotic hand in claim 12, further including: a tool element mounted to said housing for use in the operation of the robotic hand. 16. The robotic hand in claim 12, further including: a shaping means attached to the robotic hand and in contact with one or both said torus shaped membranes, wherein the shape of one or both of the tori can be modified by forces exerted on it by said shaping means during use. 