The present invention provides a 4D biochip containing m 3D biochips having n capillaries, wherein the n capillaries each contain a biological factor, and methods for preparing and using the 4D biochip to provide rapid, efficient assays of large quantities of samples and/or factors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article in FIGS. 1 and 3 comprising: at least top plate 30, a bottom plate 40, and a center plate 20 wherein the center plate 20 defines a plurality of cylindrical capillaries 50, each capillary having a pair of opposed ends, with at least one capillary comprising a reagent inlet 52 and at least one capillary comprising a reagent outlet 54; the top plate 30 and bottom elate 40 further defining a plurality of channels 60 oriented substantially perpendicularly to the capillaries 50 and configured to selectively operably connect adjacent capillaries so as to form a continuous passage from the reagent inlet 52 to the reagent outlet 54, the channels being further configured to direct the reagent into a capillary at one end thereof and from the capillary at the other end thereof such that the reagent flows through substantially the length of the capillary and scrially through all of the capillaries defined by the plate; and wherein said plates are positioned to substantially align the plurality of cylindrical capillaries from a first plate and a second plate. 2. The article according to claim 1, wherein the plates are substantially flat and further comprise a medial member disposed between and operably engaging opposing distal members. 3. The article according to claim 2, wherein the medial member defines the capillaries and the channels. 4. The article according to claim 2, wherein the medial member defines the capillaries and the distal member define the channels. 5. The article according to claim 2, further comprising at least one securing member configured to secure the distal members to the medial member in sealing relation. 6. The article according to claim 1, wherein the capillaries are disposed in an array. 7. The article according to claim 1, wherein the capillaries are between about 5 microns and about 11000 microns in diameter. 8. The article according to claim 1, wherein the capillaries are each configured to have a voltage applied across the ends thereof so as to form an electrostatic pump capable of causing the reagent to flow in a corresponding direction there between. 9. The article according to claim 8, wherein the voltage is reversible such that the flow of the reagent is capable of being selectively reversed. 10. The article according to claim 1, wherein the capillaries are each configured to have a bio sample deposited on the inner wall of the capillary such that the biosample is assayed by a reagent flowing through the capillary. 11. The article according to claim 1, wherein the plate is comprised of at least one of a semiconductor material and a polymeric material. 12. The article according to claim 11, wherein the plate is comprised of at least one of silicon and an injection-moldable polymeric material. 13. The article according to claim 11, wherein the plate is comprised of a polymeric material when the plate defines a capillary density up to 110 about 2,000 capillaries per square centimeter. 14. The article according to claim 11, wherein the plate is comprised of a semiconductor material when the plate defines a capillary density between about 2,000 capillaries per square centimeter and about 200,000 capillaries per square centimeter. 15. The article according to claim 1, which comprises at least 10 to 100 plates. 16. The article according to claim 1, which comprises at least 100 plates. 17. The article according to claim 1, which further comprises a volume-reducing arrayer apparatus, wherein said volume-reducing arrayer apparatus comprises: at least one plate disposed between the reservoir and the substrate and in communication with the reservoir, the at least one plate defining at least one plate capillary extending toward the substrate, the at least one plate capillary being configured to have a reduced volume with respect to the reservoir so as to receive a portion of the solution therefrom; and a flow control device disposed between the at least one plate and the substrate and in communication with the at least one plate, the flow control device defining at least one flow control capillary corresponding to the at least one plate capillary and extending toward the substrate, the at least one flow control capillary being configured to have a reduced volume with respect to the at least one plate capillary, the flow control device being further configured to control the flow of a predetermined amount of the solution through the at least one flow control capillary, from the at least one plate capillary to the substrate. 18. The article according to claim 17, wherein the at least one flow control capillary is configured to have a diameter smaller than the diameter of the plate capillary such that the smaller diameter of the flow control capillary provides a reduced volume per unit length with respect to the plate capillary. 19. The article according to claim 17, wherein the at least one plate defines a plurality of plate capillaries arranged in an array. 20. The article according to claim 19, wherein the flow control device defines a plurality of flow control capillaries arranged in an array corresponding to the plate capillary array. 21. The article according to claim 20, wherein at least one of the plate and the flow control device defines a plurality of channels configured such that each channel operably connects one plate capillary in the plate capillary array to one corresponding flow control capillary in the flow control device array. 22. The article according to claim 17, wherein the at least one plate comprise a first plate arid a second plate, with each plate having a solution entrance surface and a solution exit surface, and wherein the solution exit surface of the first plate is configured to operably engage the solution entrance surface of the second plate. 23. The article according to claim 22, wherein the first plate defines a plurality of first plate capillaries arranged in an array, the array further comprising a first portion of first plate capillaries arid a accord portion of first plate capillaries. 24. The article according to claim 23, wherein the solution exit surface of the first plate further defines a plurality of first plate channels, with each first plate channel extending from one capillary in the first portion of first plate capillaries to a corresponding indentation in a plurality of first plate indentations also defined by the solution exit surface of the first plate the first plate indentations also being arranged in an array. 25. The article according to claim 24, wherein the second plate defines a plurality of second plate capillaries arranged in an array, the array further comprising a first part of the second plate capillaries corresponding to the second portion of the first plate capillaries and a second part of second plate capillaries corresponding to the first plate indentations. 26. An arrayer apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the solution exit surface of the second plate further defines a plurality of second plate channels, with each second plate channel extending from one capillary in the first part of the second plate capillaries to a corresponding indentation in a plurality of second plate indentations also defined by the solution exit surface of the second plate, the second plate indentations also being arranged in an array. 27. The article according to claim 26, wherein the flow control device defines a plurality of flow control capillaries arranged in an array, the flow control capillaries corresponding to the second plate indentations and to the second part of the second plate capillaries corresponding to the first plate indentations. 28. The article according to claim 17, further comprising a stamper head disposed between the flow control device and the substrate and in communication with the flow control device, the stamper head defining a plurality of stamper capillaries arranged in an array and corresponding to the flow control capillaries, the stamper head being configured to channel the predetermined amount of the solution from the flow control device to the substrate. 29. The article according to claim 28, wherein the stamper capillaries are configured to have a reduced volume with respect to the flow control capillaries. 30. The article according to claim 29, wherein the stamper capillaries are each configured to have a diameter smaller than diameter of each flow control capillary such that smaller diameter of the stamper capillary provides a reduced volume per unit length with respect to the flow control capillary. 31. The article according to claim 17, wherein the flow control device comprises at least one of a pump and a valve. 32. The article according to claim 17, wherein the flow control capillaries are each configured to have a voltage applied between two points along the length thereof so as to form an electrostatic pump capable of causing the solution to flow therealong. 33. The article according to claim 32, wherein the voltage is capable of being adjusted so as to form an electrostatic valve capable of selectively preventing flow of the solution through the flow control capillaries. 34. The article according to claim 33, wherein the voltage is capable of being controlled such that only a predetermined amount of the solution flows through the flow control capillaries. 35. The article according to claim 17, wherein at least one of the flow control device and the at least one plate are comprised of silicon. 36. The article according to claim 1, which further comprises a volume-reducing arrayer apparatus, wherein said volume-reducing arrayer apparatus comprises: a reservoir for containing the solution at least one arrayer block disposed between the reservoir and the substrate and in communication with the reservoir, the at least one arrayer block defining at least one arrayer capillary extending toward the substrate, the at least one arrayer capillary being configured to have a reduced volume with respect to the reservoir so as to receive a portion of the solution therefrom; a flow control device disposed between the at least one arrayer block and the substrate and in communication with the at least one arrayer block, the flow control device defining at least one flow control capillary corresponding to the at least one arrayer capillary, extending toward the substrate, and being configured to have a reduced volume with respect to the at least one plate capillary, the flow control device being further configured to control the flow of a predetermined amount of the solution through the at least one flow control capillary; and a stamper head disposed between the flow control device and the substrate and in communication with the flow control device, the stamper head defining at least one stamper capillary corresponding to the at least one flow control capillary and extending toward the substrate, the at least one stamper capillary being configured to have the predetermined amount of the solution channeled therethrough by the flow control device, from the at least one flow control capillary to the substrate. 37. The article according to claim 36, wherein the at least one flow control capillary is configured to have a diameter smaller than the diameter of the at least one arrayer capillary such that smaller diameter of the flow control capillary provides a reduced volume per unit length with respect to the arrayer capillary. 38. The article according to claim 36, wherein the at least one stamper capillary is configured to have a diameter smaller than the diameter of the at least one flow control capillary such that smaller diameter of the stamper capillary provides a reduced volume per unit length with respect to the flow control capillary. 39. The article according to claim 36, wherein the at least one arrayer block defines a plurality of arrayer capillaries arranged in an array. 40. The article according to claim 39, wherein the flow control device defines a plurality of flow control capillaries arranged in an array corresponding to the arrayer capillary array. 41. The article according to claim 39, wherein the stamper head defines a plurality of stamper capillaries arranged in an array corresponding to the flow control capillary array. 42. The article according to claim 39, wherein at least one of the flow control device and the at least one arrayer block defines a plurality of channels configured such that each channel operably connects one arrayer capillary in the arrayer capillary array to one corresponding flow control capillary in the flow control device array. 43. The article according to claim 36, wherein the at least one arrayer block comprises a first arrayer block and a second arrayer block, with each arrayer block having a solution entrance surface and a solution exit surface, and wherein the solution exit surface of the first arrayer block is configured to operably engage the solution entrance surface of the second arrayer block. 44. The article according to claim 43, wherein the first arrayer block defines a plurality of first arrayer capillaries arranged in an array, the array further comprising a first portion of first arrayer capillaries and a second portion of first arrayer capillaries. 45. The article according to claim 44, wherein the solution exit surface of the first arrayer block further defines a plurality of first arrayer channel, with each first arrayer channel extending from one capillary in the first portion of first arrayer capillaries to a corresponding indentation in a plurality of first arrayer indentations also defined by the solution exit surface of the first arrayer block, the first mayor indentations also being arranged in an array. 46. The article according to claim 45, wherein the second arrayer block defines a plurality of second arrayer capillaries arranged in an array, the array further comprising a first part of the second arrayer capillaries corresponding to the second portion of the first arrayer capillaries and a second part of second arrayer capillaries corresponding to the first arrayer indentations. 47. The article according to claim 46, wherein the solution exit surface of the second arrayer block further defines a plurality of second arrayer channels, with each second arrayer channel extending from one capillary in the first part of the second arrayer capillaries to a corresponding indentation in a plurality of second arrayer indentations also defined by the solution exit surface of the second arrayer block, the second arrayer indentations also being arranged in an array. 48. The article according to claim 47, wherein the flow control device defines a plurality of flow control capillaries arranged in an array, the flow control capillaries corresponding to the second arrayer indentations and to the second part of the second arrayer capillaries corresponding to the first arrayer indentations. 49. The article according to claim 36, wherein the flow control device comprises at least one of a pump and a valve. 50. The article according to claim 36, wherein the flow control capillaries are each configured to have a voltage applied between two points along the length thereof so as to form an electrostatic pump capable of causing the solution to flow therealong. 51. The article according to claim 50, wherein the voltage is capable of being adjusted so as to form an electrostatic valve capable of selectively preventing flow of the solution through the flow control capillaries. 52. The article according to claim 50, wherein the voltage is capable of being controlled such that only a predetermined amount of the solution flows through the flow control capillaries. 53. The article according to claim 36, wherein at least one of the stamper head, the flow control device, and the at least one arrayer block are comprised of silicon. 54. A 4D biochip, comprising: m 3D biochip means, wherein m is an integer from 2 to 100,000 wherein each pair of adjacent 3D biochip means are operably connected by aligning capillaries present in one of said pair with capillaries present in the other of said pair. 55. The 4D biochip of claim 54, wherein each of said m 3D biochip means 3D contains n capillaries passing there through, wherein n is an integer from 2 to 100,000. 