A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits, drive electronics incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide power from a power supply to the drive electronics and the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the at least one printhead module, the drive electronics and the plurality of electrical conductors are removably mounted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; drive electronics incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide power from a power supply to the drive electronics and the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a casing in which the at least one printhead module, the drive electronics and the plurality of electrical conductors are removably mounted, wherein the assembly is arranged so that the at least one printhead module is removable from the assembly upon removal of the drive electronics and, the electrical conductors. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein power from the plurality of electrical conductors is delivered to the drive electronics and the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the electrical connector comprises at least two flexible printed circuit boards connected to respective one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the drive electronics is provided on a printed circuit board carrying respective connection ports directly aligned with and connected to the respective flexible printed circuit boards and printhead integrated circuits. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors are arranged as two groups of electrical conductors respectively connected to the power supply at respective ends of the printhead assembly, respective ones of electrical conductors of the two groups of electrical conductors being connected together at abutting regions intermediate the ends of the printhead assembly. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the abutting regions of the individual electrical conductors are arranged in overlapping relationship. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least two fluid distribution members each mounting one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 