A container for use in a processing chamber to lessen the amount of contaminant particles found within the chamber after processing. The container fits closely within the chamber and includes ports for a gas conduit and a vacuum conduit. The container may be locked to the chamber through a locking mechanism and a recess in the container. The container may be guided into the chamber with a plurality of chamfers. The container may be used in inductively coupled plasma chambers, electron cyclotron resonance chambers, and chambers capable of receiving microwaves.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A method of processing a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: locating the workpiece in a container, said container having at least one wall, a first access door to an interior space, at least one vacuum port and a gas port; moving said container into a processing chamber, said processing chamber having at least one wall, a second access door to an interior space, a vacuum port and a gas port; processing the workpiece, said processing step comprising producing inductively coupled plasma reactions; and removing said container from said processing chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising cleaning said container. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising reusing said container. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding said container. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after moving said container into said processing chamber, aligning said processing chamber vacuum port with said container vacuum port; and sealing said processing chamber vacuum port and said container vacuum port. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of moving said container into said processing chamber further comprises locking said container at a predetermined position within said processing chamber. 7. A method of processing a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: locating the workpiece in a container, said container having at least one wall, an access door to an interior space, at least one vacuum port and a gas port; locking said container at a predetermined position within a processing chamber, said processing chamber having at least one wall, an access port to an interior space, a vacuum port and a gas port; processing the workpiece; and removing said container from the processing chamber. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising cleaning and reusing said container. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising discarding said container. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said step of processing further comprises producing inductively coupled plasma reactions. 11. A method of processing a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: locating the workpiece in a container, said container having at least one wall, a first access door to an interior space, at least one vacuum port and a gas port; moving said container into a processing chamber, said processing chamber having at least one wall, a second access door to an interior space, a vacuum port and a gas port; aligning said processing chamber vacuum port with said container vacuum port; sealing said processing chamber vacuum port and said container vacuum port; processing the workpiece; and removing said container from said processing chamber. 