Embodiments relate to a system for conducting hearing aid compatibility testing of a mobile communication device. The system comprises: a simulated hand for supporting the mobile communication device during the testing; a probe; and a processor. The processor is configured to cause the probe to be positioned in a sequence of positions in proximity to the mobile communication device relative to an audio output component of the mobile communication device during the testing and to determine a field strength of a field radiated by the mobile communication device at the sequence of positions based on an output of the probe at each position.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for conducting hearing aid compatibility testing of a mobile communication device, comprising: a simulated hand for supporting the mobile communication device during the testing; a probe; a processor configured to cause the probe to be positioned in a sequence of positions in proximity to the mobile communication device relative to an audio output component of the mobile communication device during the testing and to determine a field strength of a field radiated by the mobile communication device at the sequence of positions based on an output of the probe at each position; and a reference member positioned proximate the mobile communication device and on an opposite side of the mobile communication device to the simulated hand, wherein the reference member comprises indicia to indicate at least one of the sequence of positions relative to a marker aligned with the audio output component. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the field comprises an electric field and the probe is configured for electric field sensing. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the field comprises a magnetic field and the probe is configured for magnetic field sensing. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the simulated hand comprises a material having dielectric properties approximating average dielectric properties of a human hand. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a communication unit responsive to the processor to communicate with the mobile communication device and to cause the mobile communication device to radiate the field. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a simulated head positioned proximate the mobile communication device and on an opposite side of the mobile communication device to the simulated hand, wherein the simulated head has a passage for receiving the probe therethrough, the passage being dimensioned to permit movement of the probe in the sequence of positions. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the passage has a closed end and the simulated head has at the closed end a reference member, wherein the reference member comprises indicia to indicate at least one of the sequence of positions. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the simulated head comprises a material having a dielectric constant approximating an average dielectric constant of a human head. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the material is a liquid. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a probe positioning system responsive to the processor to position the probe in the sequence of positions. 11. A method for conducting hearing aid compatibility testing of a mobile communication device, comprising: positioning the mobile communication device in supported relation to a simulated hand; wherein the mobile communication device is positioned proximate a reference member so that the reference member is located on an opposite side of the mobile communication device to the simulated hand; causing a probe to be positioned in a sequence of positions in proximity to the mobile communication device relative to an audio output component of the mobile communication device; wherein the reference member indicates the sequence of positions relative to a marker aligned with the audio output component; and determining a field strength of a field radiated by the mobile communication device at the sequence of positions based on an output of the probe at each position. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the positioning further comprises positioning the mobile communication device proximate a simulated head so that the simulated head is located on an opposite side of the mobile communication device to the simulated hand, wherein the simulated head has a passage for receiving the probe, the passage being dimensioned to permit movement of the probe in the sequence of positions. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the field comprises an electric field and the determining comprises electric field sensing. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the field comprises a magnetic field and the determining comprises magnetic field sensing. 