A motion sensing system utilizing piezoelectric laminates with predetermined surface electrode patterns disposed thereon utilizes a frequency selector to pass motion waves of predetermined frequencies and an electrical circuit for processing the electrical signals for transmission to an activating device for appropriate activation. In particular, the frequency selector is a low frequency bandpass filter for free-fall acceleration wave frequencies. By directing appropriate action, the present invention increases the applicability of the device upon which it is mounted (e.g., for military or other hostile environment use), decreases the possibility of damage, and lengthens its useful life.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor apparatus for a portable device, where said sensor apparatus has high low-frequency sensitivity and frequency selectivity to detect the gravity change as said portable device starts to free-fall, where said sensor apparatus providing a warning signal indicative of the free-fall motion of said portable device, and transmitting signals to activate a protection mechanism for said computing device. 2. The sensor apparatus of claim 1 wherein said portable device is a computing device. 3. The sensor apparatus of claim 2 wherein said computing device is a magnetic disk. 4. The sensor apparatus of claim 3 wherein said magnetic disk move its read/write head away from said magnetic disk as said protection mechanism. 5. The sensor apparatus of claim 1 wherein said frequency selectivity is implemented by a frequency selector. 6. The sensor apparatus of claim 5 wherein said frequency selector is a piezoelectric laminate distributed on said sensor structure with a pair of electrodes disposed on it. 7. The sensor apparatus of claim 6 wherein said frequency selector is a low frequency bandpass filter. 8. The sensor apparatus of claim 7 wherein said low frequency bandpass filter passes a predetermined free-fall acceleration wave frequency. 9. The sensor apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor apparatus has a one-dimensional sensor structure. 10. The sensor apparatus of claim 9 wherein said one-dimensional sensor structure sense free-fall by bending motions. 11. The sensor apparatus of claim 9 wherein said one-dimensional sensor structure sense free-fall by turning motions. 12. The sensor apparatus of claim 9 wherein said one-dimensional sensor structure sense free-fall by compression and tension motions. 13. A portable device having a sensor apparatus for sensing free-fall motion comprising: the said portable device a one-dimensional sensor structure functioning as said sensor apparatus having high low-frequency sensitivity to detect the gravity change as said portable device starts to free-fall; a piezoelectric laminate distributed on said one-dimensional sensor structure; a pair of electrodes disposed on said piezoelectric laminate; a frequency selector, coupled to said electrodes and piezoelectric laminate and having frequency selectivity to selecting the signal generated as a result of said free-fall signals; an electrical circuit, coupled to said frequency selector, for processing electrical signals from said frequency selector; and an activating device, coupled to said electrical circuit, for activation in response to the electrical signals. a protection mechanism, driven by said activating device, for protecting said portable device from damage. 14. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said portable device is a computing device. 15. The sensor apparatus of claim 14 wherein said computing device is a magnetic disk. 16. The sensor apparatus of claim 15 wherein said magnetic disk move its read/write head away from said magnetic disk as said protection mechanism. 17. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said sensor apparatus detects said free-fall by bending motions of said one-dimensional sensor structure. 18. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said sensor apparatus detects said free-fall by turning motions of said one-dimensional sensor structure. 19. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said sensor apparatus detects said free-fall by compression and tension motions of said one-dimensional sensor structure. 20. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said at least one electrode is disposed in a predetermined shape on one surface of said piezoelectric laminate. 21. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said at least one electrode is disposed on both surfaces of said piezoelectric laminate. 22. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said frequency selector is a low frequency bandpass filter. 23. The sensor apparatus of claim 22 wherein said low frequency bandpass filter passes a predetermined free-fall acceleration wave frequency. 24. The sensor apparatus of claim 13 wherein said frequency selector utilizing the wave mode formulation and a dispersion relation of the induced motion, thereby the generating transfer functions for said sensor apparatus has an amplitude response substantially similar to a low-pass filter. 25. The sensor apparatus of claim 24 wherein said frequency selector utilizing a modified pattern coupled to said electrodes and piezoelectric laminate to perform said low-pass filter. 