A radiation curable, flexible, paintable composition produced from epoxy compounds and one or more polyol(s) has enhanced durability, thick and thin film adhesion, resistance to mold growth and dimensional changes while reducing solvent emissions. The composition can reduce, if not eliminate, runs and drips during the thermal bake cycles which are associated with using conventional compositions in automotive applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing a coating on an automotive body component from a composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy compound, at least one polyol and at least one ultra-violet photoinitiator wherein said method comprises: (a) applying the exposed composition onto the automotive body component wherein at least a portion of the automotive body component has a vertical surface, and, (b) exposing the automotive body component to a source comprising ultra-violet radiation thereby forming a coating upon the automotive body component. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the automotive body component comprises at least one member selected from the group of floor pan, roof and lower body panel. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the automotive body component comprises a lower body panel wherein the coating forms an anti-chip coating. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the automotive body component is formed by welding together at least two automotive body components. 5. The method according to claim 1 further comprising (c) heating the coated substrate to a temperature sufficient to improve adhesion of the composition to the substrate. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the epoxy compoiund comprises a cycloaliphatic epoxy compound. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the polyol comprises a polyether polyol a polyester polyol or mixture thereof. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the UV photoinitiator comprises at least one onium salt. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the radiation comprises ultraviolet radiation having a wavelength of about 250 to about 400 nm. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the ultra-violet photoinitiator comprises a sulfonium onium salt. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the composition further comprises a thickening agent. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the thickening agent comprises silica. 13. The method according to claim 11 wherein the thickening agent is present in amount effective to provide a thixotropic composition. 14. The method according to claim 11 further comprising (e) at least one monomeric material. 15. A method of coating a brake rotor comprising: (a) providing a composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy, at least one polyol and at least one ultraviolet photo-initiator, (b) applying the composition onto at least a portion of the brake rotor, (c) exposing the brake rotor to a source of ultraviolet radiation, and; (d) recovering a coated brake rotor. 16. The method according to claim 15 further comprising heating the brake rotor. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein said composition further comprises at least one pigment. 18. A method for providing a coating on an automotive body component from a composition comprising a combination comprising at least one epoxy compound, at least one polyol and at least one ultra-violet photoinitiator wherein said method comprises: (a) applying the composition onto the automotive body component wherein the automotive body component comprises a weld formed between at least two adjacent components, and, (b) exposing the automotive body component to a source comprising ultra-violet radiation thereby forming a coating upon the automotive body component. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein a plurality of protrusions extend from the weld and said composition embeds said protrusions. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the weld is located within a channel having a trapezoidal cross-section. 