Surgical robots and other telepresence systems have enhanced grip actuation for manipulating tissues and objects with small sizes. A master/slave system is used in which an error signal or gain is artificially altered when grip members are near a closed configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a master controller having a biasing system and first and second grip members defining a grip separation, the biasing system urging the grip members apart and defining a predetermined grip separation; a slave having first and second end effector elements and defining an end effector separation; a servomechanism operatively coupling the end effector elements to the grip elements, the servomechanism applying a following force to the end effector elements, the servomechanism applying a first following force when the grip separation is greater than the predetermined grip separation, the servomechanism applying a second following force when the grip separation is less than the predetermined grip separation so that the biasing system provides tactile indication of an altered gripping force. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the master controller is movable in a plurality of positional and orientational degrees of freedom, wherein the servomechanism moves the slave in a corresponding plurality of degrees of freedom in response to the positional and orientational movement of the master, and wherein the servomechanism applies positional and orientational forces to the end effector elements, the positional and orientational forces varying with positional and orientational misalignment between the master position and orientation and a slave position and orientation substantially uniformly throughout positional and orientational ranges of motion of the slave. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the master controller produces a measured grip separation signal varying with the separation of the grip elements, wherein the slave produces a measured end effector separation signal varying with the separation of the end effector elements, and wherein the forces applied by the servomechanism vary in response to an error signal generated by a processor of the servomechanism, the processor generating the error signal at least in part from a signal difference between the measured grip signal and the measured end effector signal, the processor altering at least one of the error signal and a grip force gain when the grip separation is less than the predetermined grip separation. 4. The robotic system of claim 3, wherein the processor increases the error signal by altering the measured grip signal below the predetermined amount to produce a desired end effector position signal, the desired end effector signal being a function of the measured end effector signal when the grip separation is less than the predetermined amount, the error signal comprising a signal difference between the desired end effector signal and the measured end effector signal. 5. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein the processor calculates the desired end effector signal from the measured grip signal according to a continuous invertible function. 6. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein engagement between the end effector elements define a closed end effector configuration, wherein biasing system transitions to an enhanced grip separation force at the predetermined grip separation when the end effector is closed to the closed configuration. 7. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the biasing system comprises a variable rate spring that provides altered tactile feedback at the predetermined grip separation. 8. The robotic system of claim 7 wherein the variable rate spring comprises a first coil section comprising a first diameter and a second coil section comprising a second diameter, wherein the first diameter is smaller than the second diameter. 9. The robotic system of claim 8 wherein the first coil section and second coil section are integrally formed from a single wire. 10. The robotic system of claim 7 wherein the variable rate spring comprises a first coil section with a first coil separation and a second coil section with a second coil separation, wherein the first coil separation is larger than the second coil separation, wherein at the predetermined grip separation, the second coil section bottoms out and the first and second grips are biased only by the first coil section. 11. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the end effectors are detachably secured to the servomechanism, and further comprising a plurality of alternative sets of first and second end effectors having differing strengths, the enhanced the following forces varying with the strengths of the alternative sets of first and second end effector elements. 12. A robotic system comprising: a master controller producing a master position signal in response to a position of the master along a first degree of freedom; a slave end effector producing a slave position signal in response to a position of the end effector along a first degree of freedom, the slave having a constraint limiting movement in the first degree of freedom, the end effector moving in response to an error signal or an error signal gain, the error signal and error signal gain defined at least in part by a difference between the master position signal and the slave position signal; and a processor operatively coupling the master to the slave, the processor altering the error signal or the error signal gain when the slave is adjacent the constraint. 13. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the slave comprises first and second end effector elements, the constraint defined by engagement between the end effector elements. 14. The robotic system of claim 13, wherein the master comprises first and second master elements, the first degree of movement of the master varying a separation between the master elements, the first degree of movement of the slave varying a separation between the end effector elements. 15. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein the end effector elements of the slave move proportionally with the master elements when the end effector elements of the master and the slave are separated. 16. The robotic system of claim 12, wherein the end effector is position controlled when there is a first difference between the master signal and the slave signal and the end effector is away from the constraint, and wherein the end effector is force controlled when the end effector is adjacent the constraint. 17. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein the processor enhances the error signal when the end effector is a predetermined distance from the constraint and does not alter the error signal when the end effector is beyond the predetermined distance from the constraint. 18. The robotic system of claim 17, wherein the processor calculates a desired slave position from an actual master position according to an invertible function, the error signal comprising a difference between the desired slave position and the slave position when the end effector is within the predetermined distance from the constraint. 19. The robotic system of claim 18, wherein the master moves in response to a difference between a desired master position and the actual master position, wherein the desired master position is proportional to the actual slave position when the slave is at or beyond the predetermined distance from the constraint, and wherein the processor calculates the desired master position based on the slave position when the slave is within the predetermined distance from the constraint using an inverse of the invertible function. 20. The robotic system of claim 19, wherein the actual master position is equal to the desired slave position when the end effector is at the predetermined distance from the constraint, and wherein the error signal is sufficient to produce a maximum desired force at the end effector when the master controller is at a constraint. 21. The robotic system of claim 17, wherein the master controller comprises a biasing mechanism urging the master controller away from the constraint of the slave when the slave is within the predetermined distance. 22. A robotic system comprising: a master controller having a biasing system and first and second grip members defining a grip separation, the biasing system urging the grip members apart and providing a tactile indication of a transition between a first grip separation range and a second grip separation range; an end effector having first and second end effectors with an end effector separation, the end effector operatively coupled to an actuator; and a processor operatively coupling the master controller to the actuator so that the end effector separation varies with the grip separation according to a first control relationship when the grip separation is in the first grip separation range, and according to a second control relationship when the grip separation is in the second grip separation range. 23. The robotic system of claim 22 wherein the biasing system comprises a variable rate spring that provides the tactile indication at the transition between the first grip separation range and the second grip separation range the grips are biased only by the first coil section. 24. The robotic system of claim 23 wherein the variable rate spring comprises a first coil section and a second coil section, wherein the first coil section and second coil section bias the first and second grip members in the first grip separation range and at the transition between the first grip separation range and the second grip separation range the first and second grip members are biased by only the first coil section. 25. The robotic system of claim 24 wherein the first coil section and second coil section are integral. 26. The robotic system of claim 23 wherein the first coil section has a smaller diameter than the second coil section. 27. The robotic system of claim 23 wherein the first coil section and second coil section have the same diameter. 28. A surgical robotic system comprising: a master controller comprising first and second grip members defining a grip separation; an end effector having first and second end effectors, at least one of said end effectors coupled to an actuator such that actuation of said coupled end effector decreases said end effector separation; and a processor operatively coupling the master controller to the actuator such that when the amount of end effector separation is above a certain separation value, decreasing the grip separation of the master controller controls the amount of end effector separation, and such that said end effector separation reaching a certain separation value, further decreasing the grip separation controls the amount of force applied by the end effector. 29. The robotic system of claim 28 wherein said certain separation value comprises a predetermined end effector separation. 30. The robotic system of claim 28 wherein said certain separation value comprises the amount of end effector separation upon said first end effector member sensing contact with an object. 31. A surgical robotic system comprising: a master controller comprising first and second grip members defining a grip separation; an end effector having first and second end effectors and an end effector separation between said first and second end effectors, at least one of said end effectors coupled to an actuator such that actuation of said coupled end effector decreases said end effector separation; and a processor operatively coupling the master controller to the actuator such that when the amount of end effector separation is above a certain separation value, decreasing the grip separation of the master controller controls the amount of end effector separation, and such that upon said grip separation reaching a certain separation value, further decreasing the grip separation controls the amount of force applied by the end effector. 32. The robotic system of claim 31, wherein said certain separation value comprises a predetermined end effector separation. 