Radiosurgery systems are described that are configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, and in some embodiments, other disorders or tissues of a body are treated with the dose of radiation. In some embodiments, target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for treating a patient's target tissue with radiation, the system comprising: a radiation source that emits x-ray radiation during a treatment period; a targeting module that emits a target light that corresponds to a beam spot of the emitted radiation; an imaging system that repeatedly images the target tissue substantially at the beam spot, during the treatment period, with visible or infrared light; a mapping module that maps a location of the target tissue, based on the images of the imaging system during the treatment period, in a coordinate system; a contact lens comprising a fiducial marker; and a movement module that moves the radiation source, based on the mapped location of the target tissue in the coordinate system, to deliver radiation to the target tissue. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging system is configured to image an anatomical feature of the patient, that indicates a location of the target tissue, during the treatment period. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising a second imaging system, wherein the anatomical feature is determined by the second imaging system. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the second imaging system comprises at least one of a CT scan, an MRI, an OCT, and an ultrasound system. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the anatomical feature is a feature of an eye of the patient. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said feature of the eye is a reflection of light off a surface of eye tissue. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging system is configured to image the fiducial marker, that indicates a location of the target tissue, during the treatment period. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said target light is a laser light. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a treatment module that ceases emission of radiation based on movement of the target tissue, as imaged by the imaging system. 10. A system for treating a patient's target tissue with radiation, the system comprising: a radiation source that emits x-ray radiation during a treatment period; a targeting module that emits a target light that corresponds to a beam spot of the emitted radiation; an imaging system that repeatedly images the target tissue substantially at the beam spot, during the treatment period; a mapping module that maps a location of the target tissue, based on the images of the imaging system during the treatment period, in a coordinate system; a contact lens comprising a fiducial marker; and a movement module that moves the radiation source, based on the mapped location of the target tissue in the coordinate system, to deliver radiation to the target tissue; wherein said imaging system images light in the visible spectrum. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the imaging system is configured to image an anatomical feature of the patient, that indicates a location of the target tissue, during the treatment period. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the anatomical feature is a feature of an eye of the patient. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said feature of the eye is a reflection of light off a surface of eye tissue. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein the imaging system is configured to image the fiducial marker, that indicates a location of the target tissue, during the treatment period. 15. The system of claim 10, further comprising a treatment module that ceases emission of radiation based on movement of the target tissue, as imaged by the imaging system. 16. A system for treating a patient's target tissue with radiation, the system comprising: a radiation source that emits x-ray radiation during a treatment period; a targeting module that emits a target light that corresponds to a beam spot of the emitted radiation; an imaging system that repeatedly images the target tissue substantially at the beam spot, during the treatment period; a mapping module that maps a location of the target tissue, based on the images of the imaging system during the treatment period, in a coordinate system; a contact lens comprising a fiducial marker; and a movement module that moves the radiation source, based on the mapped location of the target tissue in the coordinate system, to deliver radiation to the target tissue; wherein said imaging system images light in the infrared spectrum. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the imaging system is configured to image an anatomical feature of the patient, that indicates a location of the target tissue, during the treatment period. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the anatomical feature is a feature of an eye of the patient. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said feature of the eye is a reflection of light off a surface of eye tissue. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the imaging system is configured to image the fiducial marker, that indicates a location of the target tissue, during the treatment period. 21. The system of claim 16, further comprising a treatment module that ceases emission of radiation based on movement of the target tissue, as imaged by the imaging system. 