A method for inspecting semiconductor wafers. Specifically, an arm which is constructed to hold a wafer, is mounted on a rotational device to provide a user with the means of inspecting a wafer in any position without having to physically touch the wafer or move the wafer to another inspection station. The arm provides rotation about an axis parallel to the surface of the wafer, as well as rotation about an axis run which is perpendicular to the surface of the wafer and extends through the axial center of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a semiconductor wafer, comprising the acts of: (a) loading a substrate into a holding structure, the substrate having a first surface and a second surface; (b) inspecting the first surface of the substrate by rotating the substrate within the holding structure about a first axis, the first axis disposed generally perpendicular to the surface of the substrate and extending generally through the axial center of the substrate; (c) rotating the holding structure about a rotatable member to rotate the substrate approximately 180.degree. about a second axis, the rotatable member being mechanically coupled to the holding structure; (d) inspecting the second surface of the substrate; and (e) removing the substrate from the holding structure. 2. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (a) comprises the acts of: (a) opening gripper arms of the holding structure; (b) inserting the substrate into a wedge assembly on the gripper arms; (c) retracting the wedge assembly; and (d) closing the gripper arms. 3. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (b) comprises the act of rotating the substrate within the holding structure until a notch on the first surface of the substrate is optically sensed. 4. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (b) comprises the act of rotating the substrate within the holding structure by using a drive wheel wedge assembly mechanically coupled to a rotational drive motor, the drive wheel wedge assembly being coupled to the substrate. 5. The method, as set forth in claim 4, comprising controlling the rotation of the substrate by using an operator driven mechanism coupled to control the rotational drive motor. 6. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein act (c) comprises the act of rotating the holding structure about a rotatable member by using a pitch motor, the pitch motor being operably coupled to the rotatable member. 7. The method, as set forth in claim 6, comprising controlling the rotation of the substrate by using an operator driven mechanism coupled to control the pitch motor. 8. A method of inspecting a semiconductor wafer, comprising the acts of: placing a substrate into a holding structure, the substrate having a first surface and a second surface; inspecting the first surface of the substrate by rotating the substrate within the holding structure about a first axis; and inspecting the second surface of the substrate by rotating the holding structure about a second axis different than the first axis. 9. The method, as set forth in claim 8, comprising the act of removing the substrate from the holding structure. 10. The method, as set forth in claim 8, wherein the act of inspecting the first surface comprises the act of holding and rotating the substrate about the first axis using members of the holding structure. 11. The method, as set forth in claim 8, wherein: the first axis is substantially orthogonal to a surface of the substrate and extends generally through an axial center of the substrate; and the second axis is substantially orthogonal to the first axis. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the act of inspecting the second surface of the substrate comprises rotating the holding structure approximately 180.degree. about the second axis. 13. The method, as set forth in claim 8, wherein the act of placing the substrate in the holding structure comprises the acts of: opening gripper arms of the holding structure; inserting the substrate into a wedge assembly on the gripper arms; and closing the gripper arms to further insert the substrate into the wedge assembly. 14. The method, as set forth in claim 8, wherein the act of inspecting the first surface comprises the act of rotating the substrate within the holding structure about the first axis using a drive wheel wedge assembly mechanically coupled to a rotational drive motor, the drive wheel wedge assembly being coupled to the substrate. 15. The method, as set forth in claim 14, comprising controlling the rotation of the substrate within the holding structure by using an operator driven mechanism coupled to control the rotational drive motor. 16. The method, as set forth in claim 15, wherein the operator driven mechanism comprises a joy stick. 17. The method, as set forth in claim 8, wherein the act of inspecting the first surface of the substrate comprises the act of rotating a shaft mechanically coupled to the holding structure to rotate the holding structure about the second axis using a motor, the motor being operably coupled to the shaft. 18. The method, as set forth in claim 17, comprising controlling the rotation of the substrate by using an operator driven mechanism coupled to control the motor. 19. A method of inspecting a semiconductor wafer, comprising the acts of: inserting a substrate into a holding structure, the substrate having a first surface and a second surface; rotating the substrate within the holding structure about a first axis to inspect the first surface, the first axis generally perpendicular to the surface of the substrate and extending generally through the axial center of the substrate; and flipping the holding structure approximately 180.degree. about a second axis to inspect the second surface, the second axis generally parallel to the surface of the substrate. 20. The method, as set forth in claim 19, comprising the act of rotating the substrate within the holding structure about the first axis to inspect the second surface of the substrate. 21. The method, as set forth in claim 19, wherein the act of rotating the substrate within the holding structure comprises the act of rotating the substrate using members of the holding structure. 22. The method, as set forth in claim 19, wherein the act of inserting the substrate into a holding structure comprising the act of holding the substrate using members of the holding structure, the members comprising wedge assemblies disposed on gripper arms. 23. The method as set forth in claim 22, comprising the act of opening and closing the gripper arms about a perimeter of the substrate to insert the substrate into the wedge assemblies using tension springs disposed in the holding structure. 