A thin film layer can be formed on a glass substrate by preheating the substrate, depositing an amorphous silicon precursor layer on the substrate at a first temperature, and annealing the substrate in a thermal processing chamber at a second temperature sufficiently higher than the first temperature to substantially reduce the hydrogen concentration in the precursor layer. The preheating and annealing steps can occur in the same thermal processing chamber. Then the precursor layer is converted to a polycrystaline silicon layer by laser annealing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a silicon layer on a substrate, comprising the sequential steps of: depositing on the substrate an amorphous silicon layer that includes hydrogen, wherein the depositing is performed at a first temperature sufficiently high so that the deposited amorphous silicon layer has a hydrogen content less than or equal to 15 atomic percent; reducing the hydrogen content in the amorphous silicon layer by heating the substrate to a second temperature sufficient to reduce said hydrogen content; and laser annealing the amorphous silicon layer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first temperature is in the range of 380 to 400 degrees C. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second temperature is sufficient to reduce the hydrogen content of the amorphous silicon layer to 5 atomic percent or less. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second temperature is sufficient to reduce the hydrogen content of the amorphous silicon layer to the range of 2 to 4 atomic percent. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second temperature is 400 to 470 degrees C. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the laser annealing step converts the silicon layer from amorphous silicon to polycrystalline silicon. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is composed of glass. 8. A method of forming a silicon layer on a substrate, comprising the sequential steps of: depositing an amorphous silicon layer on the substrate at a first temperature in the range of 380 to 400 degrees C., wherein the deposited amorphous silicon layer includes hydrogen; reducing the hydrogen content in the amorphous silicon layer by heating the substrate to a second temperature sufficient to reduce said hydrogen content; and laser annealing the amorphous silicon layer. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second temperature is sufficient to reduce the hydrogen content of the amorphous silicon layer to 5 atomic percent or less. 10. The method of claim 8, the second temperature is sufficient to reduce the hydrogen content of the amorphous silicon layer to the range of 2 to 4 atomic percent. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the laser annealing step converts the silicon layer from amorphous silicon to polycrystalline silicon. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the temperature to which the substrate is heated during the heating step is 400 to 470 degrees C. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the heating step is performed for at least five minutes. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the substrate is composed of glass. 