The present invention provides two redundant tape library controllers that mirror each other's function. A secondary controller can immediately take over from the primary controller if the primary unit fails or if a redundant path leading to the primary controller fails.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing control mechanism redundancy, the method comprising: initiating a first control unit, wherein the first control unit executes input/output (I/O) for at least one robotic device; initiating a second control unit, wherein the second control unit is subordinate to the first control unit and monitors I/O for the robotic device; wherein the first and second control units operate in tandem and monitor each other's status by means of at least one communication channel between the first and second control units; and if the first control unit fails to respond to a specified number of status inquires sent by the second control unit, allowing the second control unit to assume responsibility for I/O for the robotic device. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of allowing the second control unit to assume responsibility for I/O further comprises: sending a priority interrupt to the first control unit, wherein the interrupt alerts the first control unit that the second control unit will take over execution of I/O and initiate a reset of the first control unit, unless the first control unit takes corrective action and overcomes the failure. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein if the first control unit takes corrective action and overcomes the failure: allowing the first control unit to continue executing I/O for the robotic device. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein if the first control unit does not take corrective action and overcome the failure: resetting the first control unit; and allowing the second control unit to take over execution of I/O for the robotic device. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein if reset of the first control unit is successful, the first control unit becomes subordinate to the second control unit. 6. The method according to claim 4, wherein if reset of the first control unit is unsuccessful: deactivating the first control unit; and setting the second control unit to stand-alone mode, wherein the second control unit passively monitors for the presence of other control units and assigns subordinate status to any new control unit that is detected. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein if the second control unit fails to respond to a specified number of status inquires sent by the first control unit, while the second control unit is still subordinate to the first control unit: setting the first control unit to operate in standalone mode, wherein the first control unit passively monitors for the presence of other control units and assigns subordinate status to any new control unit that is detected. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the redundancy provides backup support for control mechanisms in a data storage library. 9. A computer program product in a computer readable medium for use in a data processing system, for providing control mechanism redundancy, the computer program product comprising: instructions for initiating a first control unit, wherein the first control unit executes input/output (I/O) for at least one robotic device; instructions for initiating a second control unit, wherein the second control unit is subordinate to the first control unit and monitors I/O for the robotic device; wherein the first and second control units operate in tandem and monitor each other's status by means of at least one communication channel between the first and second control units; and instructions for allowing the second control unit to assume responsibility for I/O for the robotic device if the first control unit fails to respond to a specified number of status inquires sent by the second control unit. 10. The computer program product according to claim 9, wherein the instructions for allowing the second control unit to assume responsibility for I/O further comprise: instructions for sending a priority interrupt to the first control unit, wherein the interrupt alerts the first control unit that the second control unit will take over execution of I/O and initiate a reset of the first control unit, unless the first control unit takes corrective action and overcomes the failure. 11. The computer program product according to claim 10, wherein if the first control unit takes corrective action and overcomes the failure: instructions for allowing the first control unit to continue executing I/O for the robotic device. 12. The computer program product according to claim 10, wherein if the first control unit does not take corrective action and overcome the failure: instructions for resetting the first control unit; and instructions for allowing the second control unit to take over execution of I/O for the robotic device. 13. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein if reset of the first control unit is successful, the first control unit becomes subordinate to the second control unit. 14. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein if reset of the first control unit is unsuccessful: instructions for deactivating the first control unit; and instructions for setting the second control unit to stand-alone mode, wherein the second control unit passively monitors for the presence of other control units and assigns subordinate status to any new control unit that is detected. 15. The computer program product according to claim 9, wherein if the second control unit fails to respond to a specified number of status inquires sent by the first control unit, while the second control unit is still subordinate to the first control unit: instructions for setting the first control unit to operate in stand-alone mode, wherein the first control unit passively monitors for the presence of other control units and assigns subordinate status to any new control unit that is detected. 16. The computer program product according to claim 9, wherein the redundancy provides backup support for control mechanisms in a data storage library. 17. A system for providing control mechanism redundancy, the system comprising: a first control unit, wherein the first control unit executes input/output (I/O) for at least one robotic device; a second control unit, wherein the second control unit is subordinate to the first control unit and monitors I/O for the robotic device; wherein the first and second control units operate in tandem; at least one communication channel between the first and second control units, whereby the first and second control units monitor each other's status; and a switchover mechanism which allows the second control unit to assume responsibility for I/O for the robotic device if the first control unit fails to respond to a specified number of status inquires sent by the second control unit. 18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the redundancy provides backup support for control mechanisms in a data storage library. 