A novel Stewart platform includes electromagnetic linear actuators. The motion platform may be included in an apparatus and method for testing footwear where a stationary shoe is struck by the motion platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shoe testing apparatus comprising: (a) a fixed artificial foot for wearing the shoe, wherein the artificial foot is mounted to a force sensor; (b) a motion platform having 6 degrees of freedom of movement; (c) means for actuating the motion platform and striking the shoe with the platform in a manner simulating the running or walking gait of a shoe wearer; and (d) means for recording the forces transmitted through the shoe to the artificial foot and sensed by the force sensor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said motion platform comprises a base, a platform, a motion controller and at least 6 linear actuating mechanisms disposed between and connected to the base and the platform, wherein each actuating mechanism comprises an electromagnetic linear actuator comprising an electric thrust block and a magnetic thrust rod and each actuating mechanism is controlled by the motion controller. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for actuating the motion platform comprises: (a) means for transforming a foot trajectory to a ground trajectory; and (b) means for causing the motion platform to execute the ground trajectory. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a support ring encircling the actuating mechanisms. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said support ring comprises an inner resilient cushioning material. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each said electromagnetic linear actuator further comprises a positional encoder operatively connected to the motion controller. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein each said positional encoder comprises a magneto-strictive encoder. 8. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each said electromagnetic linear actuator further comprises a cylindrical bearing comprising a low back EMP or non-metallic material. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each said low back EMF or non-metallic material includes a plastic or a carbon-resin composite material. 10. A method of testing a shoe comprising the steps of: (a) fitting an artificial foot within the shoe, providing a force sensor attached to the artificial foot and fixing the foot and shoe in position; (b) providing a motion platform having 6 degrees of freedom of movement; (c) providing a foot trajectory and transforming the foot trajectory to a platform trajectory; (d) actuating the motion platform with the platform trajectory to strike the shoe; and (e) recording the force transmitted through the shoe to the artificial foot with the force sensor. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the force sensor records forces in 6 degrees of freedom. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said motion platform comprises a base, a platform, a motion controller and at least 6 linear actuating mechanisms disposed between and connected to the base and the platform, wherein each actuating mechanism comprises an electromagnetic linear actuator comprising an electric thrust block and a magnetic thrust rod and each actuating mechanism is controlled by the motion controller. 