The present invention provides a system and method for creating products of varying characteristics on an automated production line. The system includes one or more production line devices, for example robots and machines. Each robot and machine is operated by a parametric computer program. The system also comprises one or more data source(s) coupled to the production line devices. The data source provides characteristics of a desired product to the production line devices. The system may also include a computer coupled to the production line devices and to the data sources. The computer may route the inputted characteristics to each of the production line devices in a logical order. The computer also may convert the characteristics into a formatted file readable by the parametric computer program, for example a MDF.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for creating products of varying characteristics on an automated production line, comprising: parsing the characteristics into discrete file packets; routing each of the discrete file packets to corresponding production line devices; converting the discrete file packets into a formatted file capable of running a parametric computer program located within each production line device; inputting the formatted file to the parametric computer program; converting the parametric computer program to a computer numeric control program; mapping each of the characteristics to a corresponding part number associated with the product, wherein the mapping creates a machine data file (MDF); and operating each production line device with the MDF, wherein the MDF instructs the automated production line device to perform as a function of the characteristics of the desired product. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the production line devices comprise robots, machines, and laser cutting devices. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the product is an electrical transformer tank. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the characteristics from a location remote from the automated production line. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the characteristics are received via the Internet. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the MDF represents production line devices required to create the characteristics. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the received characteristics include individually identified characteristics in specific locations of the product. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated production line comprises robots and machines, and wherein a file packet corresponds to a particular robot and machine. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising sequencing the discrete file packets. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the parametric program integrates the functionality of the automated production line devices. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein each production line device has a single parametric program. 12. An automated production line system, comprising: a production line device, wherein each of the production line devices store a parametric computer program, and wherein the parametric computer program integrates functionality of automated production line devices; a data source in communication with the production line device, wherein the data source provides characteristics of a desired product to the production line devices; a computer in communication with the plurality of production line devices and with the data sources, wherein the computer directs a portion of the characteristics to each of the production line devices in a logical order, and wherein the computer comprises a processor that converts the characteristics into a formatted file readable by the parametric computer program using a computer numeric control program, and wherein the computer converts the parametric computer program to a computer numeric control program for operating the production line devices; and a design database in communication with the computer, wherein the computer creates a machine data file (MDF) by mapping each desired characteristic to the design database. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising a router in communication with the computer. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the production line devices include robots, machines, and laser cutting devices. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein the data sources include a data entry device further coupled to a communication network. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein the communication network is the Internet. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein the MDF instructs the automated production line devices to perform as a function of the characteristics. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein the computer is located within the production line device. 19. The system of claim 12, wherein one parametric program is written for each production line device. 