An apparatus imparts movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle with a mechanism for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation, and an elongate member is connectable to the mechanism at one end and is connectable to a fluid nozzle at an opposite end from the mechanism. The orbital member provides orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the mechanism about the rotational axis, and provides stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to a non-rotating mechanism. A speed multiplier transmission or gearbox can be provided between the motor shaft and drive spindle if desired. A separate mixer is positionable within the member and is moveable longitudinally with respect to the member during use. The mixer includes a valve member connected to one end for movement relative to a valve seat defined by an inner surface of the cone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation; and an elongate orbital member connectible to the converting means and connectible to a fluid nozzle spaced from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis the orbital member providing stationary centered positioning in response to lack of rotation of the converting means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: the fluid nozzle for applying a fluid material selected from a group consisting of a sealant material, an adhesive material, and a noise attenuation material. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means for adjusting a dispersal pattern of the fluid material. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the adjusting means further comprises: the fluid nozzle having a plurality of apertures formed therein at equally spaced angular positions with respect to one another. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the plurality of apertures are identical to one another. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the plurality of apertures are machined at an angle with respect to a center of the fluid nozzle. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the plurality of apertures include as central aperture in the fluid nozzle. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a body defining a fluid passage having at least one fluid inlet port and at least one fluid outlet port associated with the elongate orbital member spaced from the converting means, the fluid passage moveable along an orbital path during rotation of the converting means while the at least one fluid inlet port extends trough a rotationally stationary portion of the body for fluid communication with a nozzle connectible to the at least one fluid outlet port of the body. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: the orbital member pivotally connected to the converting means. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: an elongate applicator housing having an enlarged end and a constricted end; and a mixer positionable within the housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: the mixer moveable longitudinally with respect to the housing. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: a tip seal valve member on an end of the movable mixer operably engagable with the constricted end of the applicator housing for stopping and starting flow of fluid to be applied in response to movement of the mixer. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: the tip seal valve member selected from a group consisting of a ball, a tapered cone, and an elongate cylindrical plug. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 further compring: a piston connectible to an end of the mixer, oppositefrom the constricted end of the housing, for moving the mixer longitudinally within the housing. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: the constricted end defined by a tapered cone formed on the second end to define a reduced diameter relative to the housing to enable streaming of the pressurized fluid to be applied. 16. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation, wherein the converting means includes a rotatable shaft having a rotational axis and an aperture through at least a portion of the shaft; and an elongate orbital member pivotally supported within the aperture of the shaft for movement between a centered position with respect to the rotational axis and a displaced position with respect to the rotational axis, wherein movement between the centered position and the displaced position is in response to rotational movement of the shaft, the elongate orbital member connectible to the converting means and connectible to a fluid nozzle spaced from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: the orbital member providing stationary centered positioning in response to lack of rotation of the converting means. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: an adjustable screw for adjusting an amount of transverse movement of the orbital member in response to rotational movement of the shaft. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: means for rotatably driving the shaft about the rotational axis. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the driving means further comprises an in-line motor connectible to the shaft. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the driving means further comprises an offset motor connectible to the shaft through a rotary transmission. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the rotary transmission further comprises a first pulley connectible to the motor, a second pulley connectible to the shaft, and a drive belt operably engageable between the first and second pulleys to transfer rotary motion of the motor to the shaft. 23. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: biasing means for urging the orbital member toward the centered position when the shaft is stationary. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the biasing means further comprises a spring engaged between the shaft and the orbital member of sufficient strength to move the orbital member to the centered position when the shaft is not rotating. 25. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: adjustable means for setting the centered position of the orbital member with respect to the rotational axis of the shaft. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the adjustable means further comprises at least one set screw defining a stop for the orbital member at the centered position. 27. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising: a support plate for supporting the shaft and the orbital member relative to one another; and a bracket connected to the support plate and connectible with a moveable member for movement along a predetermined path. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the moveable member is a wrist of a programmable robot. 29. A method for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising the steps of: converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation with converting means; connecting an elongate orbital member to the converting means and a fluid nozzle spaced from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis; and positioning the orbital member in a stationary centered position in response to a lack of rotation of the converting means. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising the steps of: supporting the shaft and the orbital member relative to one another with a support plate; and connecting a bracket to the support plate, the bracket connectible with a moveable member for movement along a predetermined path. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the moveable member is a wrist of a programmable robot. 32. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: applying a fluid material selected from a group consisting of a sealant material, an adhesive material, and a noise attenuation material with the fluid nozzle. 33. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: adjusting a dispersal pattern of the fluid material with adjusting means. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the adjusting step further comprises the step of: forming a plurality of apertures in the fluid nozzle at equally spaced angular positions with respect to one another. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the plurality of apertures are identical to one another. 36. The method of claim 34 wherein the plurality of apertures are machined at an angle with respect to a center of the fluid nozzle. 37. The method of claim 34 wherein the plurality of apertures include a central aperture in the fluid nozzle. 38. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: associating a body defining a fluid passage having at least one fluid inlet port and at least one fluid outlet port with the elongate orbital member spaced from the converting means, the fluid passage moveable along an orbital path during rotation of the converting means while the at least one fluid inlet port extends through a rotationally stationary portion of the body for fluid communication with a nozzle connectible to at least one fluid outlet port of the body. 39. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: pivotally connecting the orbital member to the converting means. 40. The method of claim 29 further comprising the steps of: providing an elongate applicator housing with an enlarged end and a constricted end; and positioning a mixer within the housing. 41. The method of claim 40 further comprising the step of: longitudinally moving the mixer with respect to the housing. 42. The method of claim 41 further comprising the step of: a piston connectible to an end of the mixer, opposite from the constricted end of the housing, for moving the mixer longitudinally within the housing. 43. The method of claim 41 further comprising the step of: providing a tip seal valve member on an end of the movable mixer, the tip seal valve member operably engagable with the constricted end of the applicator housing for stopping and starting flow of fluid to be applied in response to movement of the mixer. 44. The method of claim 43 further comprising the step of: selecting the tip seal valve member from a group consisting of a ball, a tapered cone, and an elongate cylindrical plug. 45. The method of claim 40 further comprising the step of: forming the constricted end defined by a tapered cone on the second end to define a reduced diameter relative to the housing to enable streaming of the pressurized fluid to be applied. 46. A method for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising the steps of: converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation with converting means, wherein the converting step includes the steps of rotating a rotatable shaft having a rotational axis, the shaft having an aperture through at least a portion of the shaft, and pivotally engaging an elongate orbital member within the aperture of the shaft for movement between a centered position with respect to the rotational axis and a displaced position with respect to the rotational axis, wherein movement between the centered position and the displaced position is in response to rotational movement of the shaft; and connecting the elongate orbital member to the converting means and a fluid nozzle spaced from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis. 47. The method of claim 46 further comprising the step of: positioning the orbital member in a stationary centered position in response to a lack of rotation of the converting means. 48. The method of claim 46 wherein the converting step further comprises the step of: adjusting an amount of transverse movement of the orbital member in response to rotational movement of the shaft with a set screw. 49. The method of claim 46 further comprising the step of: rotatably driving the shaft about the rotational axis with driving means. 50. The method of claim 49 wherein the driving step further comprises the step of connecting an in-line motor to the shaft. 51. The method of claim 49 wherein the driving step further comprises the step of connecting an offset motor to the shaft through a rotary transmission. 52. The method of claim 51 wherein the connecting step for the rotary transmission further comprises the steps of: connecting a first pulley to the motor; connecting a second pulley to the shaft; and operably engaging a drive belt between the first and second pulleys to transfer rotary motion of the motor to the shaft. 53. The method of claim 46 further comprising the step of: urging the orbital member toward the centered position when the shaft is stationary with biasing means. 54. The method of claim 53 wherein the urging step further comprises the step of engaging a spring between the shaft and the orbital member of sufficient strength to move the orbital member to the centered position when the shaft is not rotating. 55. The method of claim 46 further comprising the step of: setting the centered position of the orbital member with respect to the rotational axis of the shaft with adjustable means. 56. The method of claim 55 wherein the adjusting means further comprises at least one set screw defining a stop for the orbital member at the centered position. 57. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation; an elongate orbital member connectible to the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis, at least one fluid passage extending through a collar portion of the orbital member, each fluid passage having an inlet port connectible to a pressurized source of fluid to be dispersed and an outlet port connectible to a fluid nozzle spaced from the converting means, the collar portion supported by a rotary connection for maintaining the collar portion in a non-rotating orientation, while allowing the collar portion to be driven with the orbiting movement of the elongate orbital member. 58. The apparatus of claim 57, wherein the ro tary connection includes at least one ball bearing. 