An acceleration/deceleration method capable of synchronizing two axes in velocity and also in position is disclosed. A follower axis X continues to be accelerated after a velocity Vx of the follower axis X reaches a target velocity Vy of an objective axis Y and the acceleration is changed over to a deceleration to achieve the target velocity Vy. The time for changing over the acceleration to the deceleration is determined so that the motion amount of the position Px of the follower axis X in excess of the motion amount of the position Py of the objective axis Y is equal to the sum of the displaced motion amount in the acceleration motion and an initial positional difference. Thus, the position and velocity of the follower axis X coincide with the position and velocity of the objective axis Y to achieve complete synchronism of the two axes in the case where there is a positional difference and a velocity difference between the two axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An accelerating/decelerating method for controlling a position and a velocity of a follower axis to pursue a position and a velocity of an objective axis, respectively, comprising the steps of: obtaining a positional difference between the positions of the objective axis and the follower axis and a velocity difference between the velocities of the objective axis and the follower axis; performing a predetermined acceleration/deceleration processing based on said positional difference and said velocity difference, so that the position and the velocity of the follower axis coincide with the position and the velocity of the objective axis, respectively. 2. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 1, wherein conditions of an initial positional difference and an initial velocity difference between the objective axis and the follower axis are sorted into a plurality of cases and the velocity of the follower axis is obtained for each case. 3. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 1, wherein the positional difference and the velocity difference between the follower axis and the objective axis are used as dynamic conditions for obtaining the velocity of the follower axis in the acceleration/deceleration, and the acceleration/deceleration is dynamically performed by determining velocity of the follower axis based on the dynamic condition. 4. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 3, wherein different acceleration/deceleration values are set for the acceleration of the follower axis with respect to the objective axis and for the deceleration of the follower axis with respect to the objective axis. 5. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 3, wherein the velocity of the follower axis is limited not to exceed a predetermined value. 6. An acceleration/deceleration method for controlling a position and a velocity of a follower axis to pursue a position and a velocity of an objective axis, respectively, comprising the steps of: obtaining a sum of a positional displacement between the follower axis and the objective axis from a start of an acceleration/deceleration, and an initial positional difference between the follower axis and the objective axis at the start of the acceleration/deceleration; and controlling a time period of the acceleration and a time period of the deceleration of the follower axis so that said sum of the positional displacement and the initial positional difference is made zero when the velocity of the follower axis coincides with the velocity of the objective axis. 7. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 6, wherein conditions of the initial positional difference and an initial velocity difference between the objective axis and the follower axis are sorted into a plurality of cases and the velocity of the follower axis is obtained for each case. 8. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 6, wherein the positional difference and the velocity difference between the follower axis and the objective axis are used as dynamic conditions for obtaining the velocity of the follower axis in the acceleration/deceleration, and the acceleration/deceleration is dynamically performed by determining velocity of the follower axis based on the dynamic condition. 9. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 8, wherein different acceleration/deceleration values are set for the acceleration of the follower axis with respect to the objective axis and for the deceleration of the follower axis with respect to the objective axis. 10. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 8, wherein the velocity of the follower axis is limited not to exceed a predetermined value. 11. An accelerating/decelerating method for controlling a velocity of a follower axis to pursue a velocity of an objective axis and a position of the follower axis to have a predetermined positional relation with respect to a position of the objective axis, said method comprising the steps of: obtaining a positional difference between the positions of the objective axis and the follower axis and a velocity difference between the velocities of the objective axis and the follower axis; setting acceleration/deceleration values for acceleration and deceleration of the follower axis; and starting acceleration/deceleration of the follower axis in response to an acceleration/deceleration start command, and controlling the follower axis so that the velocity of the follower axis pursues to coincide with the velocity of the objective axis through an acceleration process and a deceleration process with the set acceleration/deceleration value, wherein a change-over from the acceleration process to the deceleration process or from the deceleration process to the acceleration process of the follower axis is determined based on the positional difference between the objective axis and the follower axis and a motion amount of the follower axis with respect to a motion amount of the objective axis from time of the change-over of the acceleration/deceleration to time when the velocity of the follower axis reaches the velocity of the objective axis. 12. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 11, wherein a constant velocity process where the follower axis is driven at a constant velocity is interposed between the acceleration process and the deceleration process. 13. An acceleration/deceleration method according to claim 11, wherein the acceleration value for acceleration of the follower axis and the deceleration value for deceleration of the follower axis are different. 