A blow molding mold has first and second fixtures. The first fixture includes drive means, typically in the form of pins, while the second mold fixture has drive receiving means, typically in the form of holes. When the second mold fixture is in registration with the first mold fixture, the drive means are extended to lock and locate the two fixtures together to enable blow molding without a blow molding press. The method of blow molding uses a robotic arm to move a lightweight second mold fixture to accept a parison as it is extruded. After extrusion the arm moves the second fixture toward the first fixture so that the fixtures can be located and locked together. A single robot using a single extrusion head can serve several mold stations depending upon cycle times.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mold assembly for blow molding a parison, said assembly comprising, a first mold fixture and a second mold fixture, said first mold fixture including a first mold cavity, said second mold fixture including a second mold cavity, said first and second mold cavities defining a complete mold for blow molding a parison, said first mold fixture including drive means and said second mold fixture including drive receiving means, and wherein said drive means and said drive receiving means are adapted to locate and lock said second mold fixture against said first mold fixture with said first and second mold cavities in registration to form the complete mold, wherein said first mold fixture is substantially U-shaped and said U shape defines a receiving recess adapted to receive said second mold fixture therein when said first and second mold cavities are in registration. 2. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said drive means includes at least one pin. 3. The mold assembly of claim 2 wherein said drive receiving means includes at least one hole for closely receiving said at least one pin. 4. The mold assembly of claim 3 wherein said at least one pin is movable between a first position in which said at least one pin does not enter into said receiving recess and a second position in which said at least one pin does extend into said receiving recess. 5. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said first mold cavity is defined in a first molding surface of said first fixture and said second mold cavity is defined in a second molding surface of said second fixture and said drive means and said drive receiving means are adapted to force said second molding surface against said first molding surface. 6. The mold assembly of claim 4 wherein said drive means includes at least two pins and said drive receiving means includes at least two holes adapted to closely receive said at least two pins. 7. The mold assembly of claim 6 wherein said drive means includes four pins and said drive receiving means includes four holes adapted to closely receive said pins. 8. The mold assembly of claim 5 wherein at least one of said drive means and said drive receiving means includes a camming surface for forcing said second molding surface against said first molding surface. 9. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said second mold fixture includes grasping means so that said second mold fixture may be grasped by a robotic arm. 10. The mold assembly of claim 9 wherein said first mold fixture includes fluid means for operating said drive means to move said drive means between a first position in which said drive means does not engage said drive receiving means and a second position in which said drive means may engage said drive receiving means. 11. A process for blow molding a parison comprising; providing a first mold fixture and a second mold fixture, said first mold fixture and said second mold fixture having respective first and second mold cavities, the first mold fixture including drive means, the second mold fixture including drive receiving means wherein the drive means of the first mold fixture and the drive receiving means of the second mold fixture are adapted to locate and lock the second mold fixture against the first mold fixture with said first and second respective mold cavities in registration to form a complete mold, the process further comprising; placing a parison in said second mold cavity of said second fixture, by manipulating said second mold fixture beneath an extrusion head from which said parison is extruded using a robotic arm, operating said drive means and said drive receiving means to locate and lock said second mold fixture against said first mold fixtures with said first and second mold cavities in registration, and blow molding said parison without use of any external clamping force. 12. A process further comprising; providing a first mold fixture and a second mold fixture, said first mold fixture and said second mold fixture having respective first and second mold cavities, the first mold fixture including drive means, the second mold fixture including drive receiving means wherein the drive means of the first mold fixture and the drive receiving means of the second mold fixture are adapted to locate and lock the second mold fixture against the first mold fixture with said first and second respective mold cavities in registration to form a complete mold, providing a robot capable of grasping and translating said second mold fixture, the process further comprising; grasping said second mold fixture with said robot, extruding a parison from an extrusion head, maneuvering said second mold fixture by means of said robot while said parison is received within said second mold cavity of said second mold fixture, translating said second mold fixture containing said parison from adjacent said extrusion head to adjacent said first mold fixture until said second mold fixture is substantially in registry with said first mold fixture, extending said drive means so that said drive means are received by said drive receiving means to lock and locate said first and second mold fixtures in registry to form a complete mold, and blow molding said parison within said first and second mold fixtures, without use of any external clamping force. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein said step of extending said drive means includes pre-sealing said parison. 14. The process of claim 13 wherein said step of extending said drive means further includes forcing said second mold fixture against said first mold fixture. 15. The process of claim 12 wherein said process further comprises providing a plurality of sets of first and second said mold fixtures, each such set located at a molding station, said process including the step of using a single robot and a single extrusion head, with said robot translating said second mold fixture of each set from adjacent said extrusion head for receiving a parison to adjacent the respective first mold fixture at each said station, and blow molding a respective parison at each of said molding stations. 16. The process of claim 15 wherein the second mold cavities of each of said second mold fixtures at each of said molding stations is the same. 17. The process of claim 15 wherein the second mold cavities of each of said second mold fixtures at each of said molding stations is different. 