A method and device for the quantification of muscle tone, particularly the wrist, wherein non-sinusoidal and non ramp trajectories are used to drive the wrist. Equation 1 is utilized determine the stiffness, viscosity and inertial parameters. wherein where .tau..sub.s is the total torque, .tau..sub.off is the offset torque, K.sub.H and B.sub.H are the angular stiffness and viscosity of the combined flexor and extensor muscle groups that act on the joint, J.sub.T is the combined inertia of the oscillating appendage, .theta. is the angular displacement of the system, and ##EQU1## are the velocity and acceleration. In accordance with the method, the trajectory .theta.(t) is controlled, the torque response .tau.(t) is measured and the stiffness, viscosity, and inertial parameters are determined using Equation 1. The method and device are particularly suitable for use on patients with spacisity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for quantifying muscle tone in a patient comprising the steps of: moving the patient's wrist in a non-sinusoidal and non ramp trajectory and determining the stiffness, viscosity and inertial parameters using the following relationship ##EQU52## where .tau..sub.s is the total torque, .tau..sub.off is the offset torque, K.sub.H and B.sub.H are the angular stiffness and viscosity of the combined flexor and extensor muscle groups that act on the joint, J.sub.T is the combined inertia of the oscillating appendage, .theta. is the angular displacement of the system, and ##EQU53## are the velocity and acceleration. 2. A method of quantifying muscle tone in a patient comprising the steps of: driving the patient's wrist is in arbitrary trajectory that is neither sinusoidal nor ramp; controlling the trajectory .theta.(t); measuring the torque response .tau.(t); and determining the stiffness K.sub.H, viscosity B.sub.H, and inertial J.sub.T parameters using the relationship ##EQU54## wherein where .tau..sub.s is the total torque, .tau..sub.off is the offset torque, K.sub.H and B.sub.H are the angular stiffness and viscosity of the combined flexor and extensor muscle groups that act on the joint, J.sub.T is the combined inertia of the oscillating appendage, .theta. is the angular displacement of the system, and ##EQU55## are the velocity and acceleration. 3. A device for quantifying muscle tone in a patient comprising: an electromechanical system that drives the wrist of a patient with an arbitrary trajectory that is neither sinusoidal nor ramp, wherein the system includes: a housing having a top surface; a hand support on the top surface of the housing for holding the hand in a desired position; an arm support on the top surface of the housing for holding the arm in a desired position relative to the hand; a motor coupled to the hand support such that the motor moves back and fourth tracking the desired trajectory and wherein the motor causes the hand to move in the desired trajectory; and an automated feedback controller for varying the torque, speed and direction of the motor. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein a discrete set of finite data points defining the trajectory is input into the controller, and wherein the motor tracks these data points. 5. The device of claim 3, wherein the hand securing mechanism comprises at least a pair of vertical bars extending upwards from the top surface of the housing and being spaced apart so the hand can be placed between the pair of vertical bars. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the vertical bars have padding or a cushion on their outer surface. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the padding or cushion is removable and varies in thickness for adapting the device to various sized hands. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein the padding or cushion is compressible and expandable to accommodate hands of varying sizes. 9. The device of claim 5, wherein the vertical bars are slidably attached to the housing so that the vertical bars are movable towards each other and away from each other and locked into a desired position for accommodating varying sized hands. 10. The device of claim 3, further comprising an arm securing mechanism to secure the arm in place. 11. The device of claim 3 further comprising an optical encoder for converting motion of the device and wrist into a series of digital pulses. 12. The device of claim 3 further comprising an amplifier for amplifying the command voltage from the controller into either a voltage or a current to the motor. 