An apparatus for manipulating an object. The apparatus comprises a pair of actuated compliant beams that are mounted substantially perpendicular to each other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus to manipulate an object comprising: a pair of actuated compliant beams, mounted substantially perpendicular to each other, to move substantially in the same plane so as to move into contact with opposing surfaces of an object, to thereby grip and manipulate the object. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each compliant beam includes a piezoelectric actuator. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein one end of the piezoelectric actuator is attached to a proximal end of a base member. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein a tip member is attached to a distal end of the base member. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the tip member has an inclined face configured to engage the object to be manipulated. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the face of the tip member is inclined at angle of approximately 45 degrees. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein a strain gauge is located at a face and back of each of the base member and the tip member. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the piezoelectric actuator drives a distal end of the base member. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the piezoelectric actuator drives the distal end of the base member through a point contact. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a tip member joined to one end of each compliant beam. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each compliant beam includes an actuator selected from the group consisting of a thermal actuator, a motor-driven beam actuator, a polymer/thermal actuator, and a flexible circuit actuator. 12. The actuator of claim 1 further including at least one strain gauge to measure a deflection of a beam or a force applied by a beam. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein one of the beams can only be driven along a first axis, while the other one of the beams can only be driven along a second axis that is perpendicular to the first axis. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each beam is fixed to a surface. 15. An apparatus to manipulate an object comprising: a first arm that is actuated only along a first axis; a second arm that is actuated only along a second axis that is substantially perpendicular to the first axis; and the first and second arms movable substantially in the same plane and defining a space therebetween in which an object can be positioned such that the first arm can move into contact with a first surface of the object and the second arm can move into contact with a second surface of the object, whereby the first and second arms can grip and manipulate the object. 16. A system to manipulate an object comprising: a first arm that is actuated only along a first axis; a second arm that is actuated only along a second axis that is substantially perpendicular to the first axis; and the first and second arms movable substantially in the same plane and defining a space therebetween in which an object can be positioned such that the first and second arms can move into contact with respective opposite surfaces of the object to grip and manipulate the object; and an XYZ stage on which the object can be positioned. 17. A method of manipulating an object comprising: bringing a first arm that is actuated only along a first axis into contact with one side of the object; bringing a second arm that is actuated only along a second axis that is substantially perpendicular to the first axis into contact with another side of the object; and actuating at least one of the first and second arms, the first and second arms being movable in substantially the same plane, to manipulate the object. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the first and second arms are actuated to roll the object. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the first and second arms are actuated to pick and place the object. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the first and second arms are actuated to reorient the object perpendicular to a grasping wall. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein the first and second arms are actuated to align the object along a wall. 22. A method of manipulating a submillimeter-sized object comprising: bringing a first actuated compliant beam into contact with one side of the object; bringing a second actuated compliant beam that is mounted substantially perpendicular to the first beam into contact with another side of the object; and operating the first and second beams so that they move in the same plane to manipulate the object. 23. A method of manipulating an object comprising: contacting one side of the object with a first beam that is actuated only along a first axis; contacting another side of the object with a second beam that is actuated only along a second axis that is perpendicular to the first axis; positioning the object in a groove in a wall as the object is grasped by the first and second beams; controlling the position of the wall and the first beam such that the wall and the first beam grasp the object, while the second beam is transferred to another side of the object; controlling the position of the wall and the second beam such that the wall and the second beam grasp the object, while the first beam is transferred to yet another side of the object; moving the wall away from the object; and operating the first and second beams to rotate the object 90 degrees. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the steps thereof are repeated to rotate the object 360.degree. degrees. 25. An apparatus to manipulate an object comprising: a first compliant arm that is actuated only along a first axis; a second compliant arm that is actuated only along a second axis that is substantially perpendicular to the first axis; and the first and second arms capable of being selectively brought into contact with respective opposite surfaces of an object, with the motion of the first and second arms being substantially coplanar, to thereby grip and manipulate the object. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the angle between the opposing surfaces is less than twice the friction angle of the opposing surfaces. 