An inspection apparatus, system and method for inspecting parts during a manufacturing process. The apparatus comprises a conveyor line for moving a part during a manufacturing process and a plurality of sensors and cameras mounted on stationary supports around the conveyor line. The conveyor line may be a part of or adjacent to the production line. The sensors measure a characteristic of a first part and produce an inspection output, and can be reconfigured for inspection of at least one different characteristic of a second part or for re-inspection of the first part at a different stage of the manufacturing process. The apparatus may include a computer system that receives the sensor inspection outputs and produces operator-accessible information. The apparatus may include means for identification of the parts. Alternatively, the parts may be stationary and the supports on which the sensors are mounted may be moving relative to the parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for inspecting a first part and a second part, the first and second parts belonging to a single family of parts, the apparatus comprising: a conveyor line for moving the first part during a manufacturing process; and a plurality of non-contact sensors reconfigurably mounted in grooves on one or more stationary supports in proximity to the conveyor line, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts, the sensors being stationary relative to the supports during inspection, wherein at least one of the plurality of non-contact sensors measures at least one characteristic of the first part and produces an inspection output, the plurality of non-contact sensors being reconfigurable on the grooves for measuring at least one different characteristic of the second part. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyor line is part of the production line. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyor line is adjacent to the production line. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a computer system that receives the inspection output and generates operator-accessible information about the first part. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the computer system controls the motion of the conveyor line from a remote location. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further including stationary supports that are disposed along each side and above the conveyor line. 7. An apparatus for inspecting a part belonging to a family of parts, the apparatus comprising: a conveyor line for moving the part during a manufacturing process; and a plurality of non-contact sensors reconfigurably mounted in grooves on one or more stationary supports in proximity to the conveyor line, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts, the sensors being stationary relative to the supports during inspection, wherein at least one of the plurality of non-contact sensors measures at least one characteristic of the part at a first stage of the manufacturing process and produces an inspection output, the plurality of non-contact sensors being reconfigurable on the grooves for re-inspecting the part at a second stage of the manufacturing process. 8. A system for inspecting a first part and a second part, wherein the first and second parts belong to a single family of parts, the system comprising: a conveyor line for moving the first part during a manufacturing process; a plurality of stationary supports disposed in proximity to the conveyor line, each support including a plurality of grooves, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts; a plurality of electro-optical detectors reconfigurably mounted in any one of the grooves, wherein the detectors are stationary relative to the supports during inspection, each detector measuring a characteristic of the first part and producing an inspection output for the first part; and a computer system communicating with the detectors and converting the inspection outputs to operator-accessible information about the first part, and wherein the plurality of electro-optical detectors can be reconfigured on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the conveyor line is part of the production line. 10. A system for inspecting a first part and a second part, the first and second parts belonging to a single family of parts, the system comprising: a stationary line for holding the first part during a manufacturing process; a plurality of supports moving in proximity and relative to the stationary line, each support including a plurality of grooves, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts; a plurality of electro-optical detectors, wherein each detector is reconfigurably mounted in any one of the grooves to measure a characteristic of the first part and produce an inspection output for the first part, wherein each detector is stationary relative to its respective support during inspection; and a computer system communicating with the detectors and converting the inspection outputs to operator-accessible information about the first part, and wherein the detectors can be reconfigured on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 11. A system for inspecting a first part and a second part, the first and second part belonging to a single family of parts, the system comprising: at least one support moving in relation to the first part, the at least one support including a plurality of grooves, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts; a plurality of electro-optical detectors, wherein each detector is reconfigurably mounted in anyone of the plurality of grooves to measure a characteristic of the first part and produce an inspection output for the first part, wherein each detector is stationary relative to its respective support during inspection; and a computer system communicating with the detectors and converting the inspection outputs to operator-accessible information about the first part, and wherein the detectors can be reconfigured on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 12. A system for inspecting a first part and a second part, the first and second parts belonging to a single family of parts, the system comprising: means for moving the first part during a manufacturing process; detector means for measuring at least one characteristic of the first part and producing an inspection output for the first part; processor means for converting the inspection output to operator-accessible information about the first part; and means for reconfiguring the detector means for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part, wherein the means for reconfiguring have shape and location selected for the family of parts and wherein the detector means are stationary relative to the means for reconfiguring during inspection. 13. A system for inspecting a part, the part belonging to a family of parts, the system comprising: means for moving the part during a manufacturing process; detector means for measuring at least one characteristic of the part during a first stage of the manufacturing process and producing an inspection output for the part; processor means for converting the inspection output to operator-accessible information about the part; and means for reconfiguring the detector means for re-inspecting the part at a second stage of the manufacturing process, wherein the means for reconfiguring have shape and location selected for the family of parts and wherein the detector means are stationary relative to the means for reconfiguring during inspection. 14. A system for inspecting a first part and a second part, the first and second parts belonging to a single family of parts, the system comprising: a conveyor line connected to a conveyor controller for moving the first part during a manufacturing process; a plurality of stationary supports in proximity to the conveyor line; a plurality of non-contact sensors mounted on the stationary supports, wherein the sensors are reconfigurably mounted in grooves on the supports, the grooves having shape and location selected for the family of parts, wherein the sensors are stationary relative to the supports during inspection, and wherein each sensor measures at least one characteristic of the first part and produces an inspection output for the first part; and a computer system comprising: a communication module in communication with the sensors and the conveyor controller; a decision module that compares the inspection outputs for the first part with a computer-stored design of the first part within predetermined tolerances; and a control module that issues a command when a tolerance is exceeded, and wherein the sensors can be reconfigured on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the conveyor line is part of the production line. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the conveyor line is adjacent to the production line. 17. A system for inspecting a first part and a second part, the first and second parts belonging to the same family of parts, the system comprising: a conveyor line for moving the first part during a manufacturing process; a plurality of stationary supports disposed in proximity to the conveyor line; a machine vision system comprising: a plurality of non-contact sensors reconfigurably mounted in grooves on any one of the stationary supports, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts, the sensors being stationary relative to the supports during inspection, and the sensors measuring at least one characteristic of the first part and producing an inspection output for the first part; at least one camera reconfigurably mounted in any one of the grooves on the stationary supports, the camera capturing an image of the first part; and a machine vision processor in communication with the camera and the sensors to process the image and the inspection outputs and issue a command for the production of the first part, and wherein the sensors can be reconfigured on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the machine vision command is sent to a programmable logic controller. 19. A method for inspecting a first part and a second part during a manufacturing process, the first and second parts belonging to a single family of parts, the method comprising: reconfigurably mounting a plurality of non-contact sensors in grooves on stationary supports in proximity to a moving line holding the first part, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts and wherein the sensors are stationary relative to the supports during inspection; measuring at least one characteristic of the first part and producing an inspection output for the first part; converting the inspection output to operator-accessible information; and reconfiguring the sensors on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein measuring includes detecting by non-contact sensors. 21. A method for inspecting a first part and a second part during a manufacturing process, the first and second part belonging to a single family of parts, the method comprising: reconfigurably mounting a plurality of non-contact electro-optical sensors in grooves on supports in proximity to a moving line holding the first part, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts and wherein the sensors are stationary relative to the supports during inspection; reconfigurably mounting at least one camera in any one of the grooves, the camera being in communication with the sensors and directed to the moving line; measuring at least one characteristic of the first part and producing an inspection output that includes an image of the first part; converting the inspection output to operator-accessible information; and reconfiguring the sensors and the camera on the grooves for inspection of at least one different characteristic of the second part. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the camera is mounted on a moving support. 23. A method for inspecting and re-inspecting a part during a manufacturing process, wherein the part belongs to a family of parts, the method comprising: reconfigurably mounting a plurality of non-contact sensors in grooves on supports in proximity to a moving line holding the part, wherein the grooves have shape and location selected for the family of parts and wherein the sensors are stationary relative to the supports during inspection; measuring at least one characteristic of the part at a first stage of the manufacturing process and producing an inspection output for the part; converting the inspection output to operator-accessible information; and reconfiguring the sensors on the grooves for re-inspecting the part at a second stage of the manufacturing process. 