Apparatus (10) for simultaneous light scattering includes a plurality of chambers and/or sub-chambers (41) in which light scattering can occur; a light source (20) or light sources for providing light to be scattered to the sub-chambers; light detectors (55, 62) optically coupled to the sub-chambers (41) for detecting scattered light; transmitters (31, 32) for transmitting information from the light detectors to a computer (30) for analysis. A method of performing simultaneous light scattering includes: providing a plurality of sub-chambers (41) in which light scattering can occur; providing light (22) to be scattered to the sub-chambers (41); detecting light scattered in the sub-chambers (41) with light detectors (55, 62); transmitting information from the light detectors (55, 62) to a computer (30) for analysis. Preferably, the information is transmitted to a single computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus including a light scattering device for conducting simultaneous multi-sample light scattering comprising: a) a source of collimated, focused, or partially focused light; b) at least two sub-chambers, each of which can hold an independent liquid sample comprising a solution containing polymers and/or colloids, and each of which can be irradiated by incident light from the source of collimated, focused, or partially focused light, the light scattered by the sample in each of which is detected for analysis; c) light detection means sensitive enough to detect single scattering from the samples, the light detection means being optically coupled to the sub-chambers; and d) means for determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentration; and hydrodynamic properties. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a computer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light source is a laser. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the incident light is delivered to the sub-chambers in series from a single light source. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light source is split and delivered to each sub-chamber, the light being collimated or focused, or to a subset of sub-chambers (i.e. purely in parallel, or partially in parallel and partially in series). 6. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a plurality sources, each of which is incident upon one or more sub-chambers. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising one or more detection means placed at angles from 2.degree. up to 178.degree. from the incident beam direction for each sub-chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for performing simultaneously relative or absolute molecular weight characterization of independent liquid samples containing polymers or colloids. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for simultaneously making relative or absolute intensity, or relative or absolute molecular weight characterization of independent liquid samples from separate polymer reactions. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the polymer reaction is a polymerization reaction. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the polymer reaction is a polymer degradation reaction. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the polymer reaction is an interaction with small molecules, other polymers, colloids or microbes. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the polymer reaction is dissolution of a dry powder in a solvent. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for analyzing by a single computer the photodetector outputs from the scattering from the independent liquid samples. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for analyzing by a single computer the scattering from the independent liquid samples. 16. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for analyzing by a single computer the photodetector outputs from the scattering from the independent samples. 17. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for analyzing by more than one computer the scattering from the independent samples. 18. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for flowing the independent liquid samples into the sub-chambers. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein large or detector-saturating scattering signals are used to identify and characterize instability in solutions containing polymers and/or colloids. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the independent liquid samples can come from a plurality of separate chemical analysis devices. 21. The apparatus of claims 20, wherein at least one of the separate chemical analysis devices is selected from the group consisting of size exclusion chromatography columns, field flow fractionation devices, refractive index detectors, viscosity detectors, ultraviolet and visible spectrophotometers, and conductivity detectors. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for allowing the samples to be introduced into the sub-chambers by a pipette, syringe, syringe pump, peristaltic pump, or other transfer device, either manually or by a robotic device, and remain, without flow, during the measurements. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising flow fittings so that at least some of the sub-chambers can be independently filled by a flowing liquid, either at intervals or in a continuous fashion. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for allowing the individual sub-chambers to accept sample cells containing sample fluid. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein an index matching fluid can be used to optically couple the individual sample cells inserted into each sub-chamber. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light source produces collimated or focused light. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a non-collimated light source. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a separate source of light for each sub-chamber. 29. The invention of claim 1, whereby the polydispersity of an evolving polymerization reaction is monitored online in one or more of the sub-chambers. 30. The invention of claim 1, wherein at least one optical fiber coupled to a light detector is in direct physical contact with liquid in the sub-chamber. 31. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for monitoring changes in at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid sample solutions: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 32. Apparatus including a light scattering device for conducting simultaneous multi-sample light scattering comprising: a) a source of collimated or focused light; b) at least two sub-chambers, each of which can hold an independent liquid sample comprising a solution containing polymers and/or colloids, and each of which can be simultaneously irradiated by incident light from the source of collimated or focused light, the light scattered by the sample in each of which is detected for analysis; c) light detection means optically coupled to the sub-chambers; and d) means for determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentration; and hydrodynamic properties. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, further comprising means for monitoring changes in at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid sample solutions: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 34. Apparatus including a light scattering device for conducting simultaneous multi-sample light scattering comprising: a) a lighting device comprising a plurality of sources of collimated or focused light; b) at least two sub-chambers, each of which can hold an independent liquid sample comprising a solution containing polymers and/or colloids and each of which can be simultaneously irradiated by incident light from the lighting device, the light scattered by the sample in each of which is detected for analysis; c) light detection means optically coupled to the sub-chambers; and d) means for determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentration; and hydrodynamic properties. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising means for monitoring changes in at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid sample solutions: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 36. Apparatus including a light scattering device for conducting simultaneous multi-sample light scattering comprising: a) a source of collimated or focused light; b) at least two sub-chambers, each of which can hold an independent liquid sample comprising a solution containing polymers and/or colloids, and each of which can be irradiated by incident light from the source of collimated or focused light, the light scattered by the sample in each of which is detected for analysis; c) light detection means sensitive enough to detect single scattering from the samples, the light detection means being optically coupled to the sub-chambers; d) a computer for analyzing data from the light detection means; and e) means for determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentration; and hydrodynamic properties. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, further comprising means for monitoring changes in at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid sample solutions: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 38. Apparatus for conducting simultaneous multi-sample light scattering comprising: (a) a plurality of chamber means, for containing liquid samples containing polymers and/or colloids, in which single light scattering can occur; (b) light source means for providing collimated, focused, or partially focused light to be scattered to the chamber means; (c) light detectors optically coupled to the chamber means for detecting scattered light, the light detectors being sensitive enough to detect single scattering from the chambers; and (d) transmission means for transmitting information from the light detectors to a computer for analysis; and (e) means for determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentration; and hydrodynamic properties. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the information from all light detectors is transmitted to a single computer. 40. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising means for monitoring changes in at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid sample solutions: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 41. A method of performing simultaneous multi-sample light scattering, comprising: (a) providing a plurality of chamber means in which light scattering can occur; (b) placing liquid samples containing polymers and/or colloids in the chamber means; (c) providing collimated, focused, or partially focused light to be scattered to the chamber means; (d) detecting light scattered in the chamber means with light detectors optically coupled to the chamber means, the light detectors being sensitive enough to detect single scattering from the chambers; and (e) transmitting information from the light detectors to a computer for analysis. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the information from the light detectors is transmitted to a single computer. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein light is provided by a laser. 44. The method of claim 41, further comprising simultaneously making relative or absolute molecular weight characterization of independent liquid samples from separate polymer reactions. 45. The method of claim 44,wherein the polymer reaction is a polymerization reaction. 46. The method of claim 44, wherein the polymer reaction is a polymer degradation reaction. 47. The method of claim 44, wherein the polymer reaction is the dissolution of the dry polymer in a solvent. 48. The method of claim 44, wherein the polymer reaction is an interaction with small molecules, other polymers, colloids or microbes. 49. The method of claim 41, wherein large or detector-saturating scattering signals are used to identify and characterize instability in solutions containing polymers and/or colloids. 50. The method of claim 41, wherein the liquid samples contain polymers and/or colloids, and further comprising determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/orcolloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 51. A method of performing simultaneous multi-sample light scattering, comprising: (a) providing a plurality of chamber means in which light scattering can occur; (b) placing liquid samples containing polymers and/or colloids in the chamber means; (c) providing collimated, focused, or partially focused light to be scattered to the chamber means from a single light source; and (d) detecting light scattered in the chamber means with light detectors optically coupled to the chamber means. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein a computer is used to analyze the scattered light. 53. The method of claim 51, wherein the light source is a laser. 54. The method of claim 51, wherein the liquid samples contain polymers and/or colloids, and further comprising determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 55. A method of performing simultaneous multi-sample light scattering, comprising: (a) providing a plurality of chamber means in which light scattering can occur; (b) placing liquid samples containing polymers and/or colloids in the chamber means; (c) providing light to be scattered to the chamber means from a device comprising a plurality of sources of collimated or focused light; and (d) detecting light scattered in the chamber means with light detectors optically coupled to the chamber means. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein the liquid samples contain polymers and/or colloids, and further comprising determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/orcolloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 57. A method of performing simultaneous multi-sample light scattering, comprising: (a) providing a plurality of chamber means in which light scattering can occur; (b) placing liquid samples containing polymers and/or colloids in the chamber means; (c) providing collimated, focused, or partially focused light to be scattered to the chamber means; (d) detecting light scattered in the chamber means with light detectors optically coupled to the chamber means, the light detectors being sensitive enough to detect single scattering from the chamber means; and (e) transmitting information from the light detectors to a single computer for analysis. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein the liquid samples contain polymers and/or colloids, and further comprising determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 59. A method of performing simultaneous multi-sample light scattering, including: providing a light scattering chamber consisting of two or more sub-chambers; receiving an independent liquid sample solution in at least two of the sub-chambers; irradiating each sub-chamber having an independent sample solution with incident collimated, focused, or partially focused light; detecting the light scattered by the sample in each sub-chamber with light detector means sensitive enough to detect single scattering from the sub-chambers. 60. The method of claim 59, wherein the incident light is delivered to the sub-chambers in series. 61. The method of claim 59, wherein the light source is split and delivered to each sub-chamber, the light being collimated or focused, or to a subset of sub-chambers (i.e. purely in parallel, or partially in parallel and partially in series). 62. The method of claim 59, further comprising providing a plurality of light sources, each of which is incident upon one or more sub-chambers. 63. The method of claim 59, further comprising placing one or more detection means at angles from 2.degree. up to 178.degree. from the incident beam direction for each sub-chamber. 64. The method of claim 59, further comprising placing one or more detection means at angles from 5.degree. up to 175.degree. from the incident beam direction for each sub-chamber. 65. The method of claim 59, further comprising placing one or more detection means at angles from 20.degree. up to 160.degree. from the incident beam direction for each sub-chamber. 66. The method of claim 59, further comprising placing one or more detection means at angles from 30.degree. up to 150.degree. from the incident beam direction for each sub-chamber. 67. The method of claim 59, further comprising performing simultaneously relative or absolute molecular weight characterization of independent liquid samples containing polymers or colloids. 68. The method of claim 67, wherein the independent liquid samples can come from a plurality of separate chemical analysis devices. 69. The method of claim 68, wherein at least one of the separate chemical analysis devices is selected from the group consisting of: size exclusion chromatography columns, field flow fractionation devices, refractive index detectors, viscosity detectors, ultraviolet and visible spectrophotometers, and conductivity detectors. 70. The method of claim 67, further comprising analyzing by a single computer the photodetector outputs from the scattering from the independent liquid samples. 71. The method of claim 67, further comprising analyzing by a single computer the scattering from the independent liquid samples. 72. The method of claim 67, further comprising analyzing by a single computer the photodetector outputs from the scattering from the independent liquid samples. 73. The method of claim 67, further comprising analyzing by more than one computer the scattering from the independent liquid samples. 74. The method of claim 67, further comprising introducing the liquid samples into the sub-chambers by a pipette, syringe or other transfer device, either manually or by a robotic device, and remain, without flow, during the measurements. 75. The method of claim 67, wherein the independent liquid samples are flowed into the sub-chambers. 76. The method of claim 59, further comprising providing flow fittings so that each sub-chamber can be independently filled by a flowing liquid. 77. The method of claim 59, further comprising allowing the individual sub-chambers to accept sample cells containing sample fluid. 78. The method of claim 59, wherein an index matching fluid can be used to optically couple the individual sample cells inserted into each sub-chamber. 79. The method of claim 59, wherein a collimated or focused light source is used. 80. The method of claim 59, wherein a non-collimated light source is used. 81. The method of claim 59, wherein a separate source of light is used for each sub-chamber. 82. The method of claim 59, wherein the liquid samples contain polymers and/or colloids, and further comprising determining at least one of the following characteristics of the polymers and/or colloids in the liquid samples: relative mass; absolute mass; spatial dimensions; sizes; shapes; interactions; concentrations; and hydrodynamic properties. 