A method for processing a semiconductor wafer or similar article includes the step of spinning the wafer and applying a fluid to a first side of the wafer, while it is spinning. The fluid flows radially outwardly in all directions, over the first side of the wafer, via centrifugal force. As the fluid flows off of the circumferential edge of the wafer, it is contained in an annular reservoir, so that the fluid also flows onto an outer annular area of the second side of the wafer. An opening allows fluid to flow out of the reservoir. The opening defines the location of a parting line beyond which the fluid will not travel on the second side of the wafer. An apparatus for processing a semiconductor wafer or similar article includes a reactor having a processing chamber formed by upper and lower rotors. The wafer is supported between the rotors. The rotors are rotated by a spin motor. A processing fluid is introduced onto the top or bottom surface of the wafer, or onto both surfaces, at a central location. The fluid flows outwardly uniformly and in all directions. A wafer support automatically lifts the wafer, so that it can be removed from the reactor by a robot, when the rotors separate from each other after processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece, comprising: a first rotor; a second rotor engagable with the first rotor; the first rotor and the second rotor forming a chamber, when the first and second rotors are engaged, with the chamber rotatable about a spin axis; a plurality of spacing members for holding the workpiece, with at least a perimeter area of the workpiece in the chamber, and with the chamber confining fluid to the perimeter area of the workpiece when the chamber is spinning. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a fluid supply opening positioned to introduce a processing fluid to a central area of the workpiece. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 with the chamber having a top surface, a bottom surface and an outside wall surface, formed by the first and second rotors. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 where the workpiece has a flat surface and the outside wall surface is perpendicular to the flat surface of the workpiece. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 where the outside wall surface is vertical and the flat surface of the workpiece is horizontal, so that fluid on the flat surface of the workpiece flows radially outwardly equally in all directions over the flat workpiece surface, via centrifugal force, when the workpiece rotates with the chamber. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a seal between the first and second rotors, with the seal having a diameter greater than the diameter of the chamber. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a spin motor connected to at least one of the first and second rotors. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an outlet in at least one of the first and second rotors, with the outlet located between the chamber and the spin axis of the rotors. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for moving the first and second rotors apart, for loading and unloading a workpiece, and for moving them together, for processing a workpiece. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 with at least one of the first and second rotors including a web plate attached to a drive shaft. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising spacing members extending into the chamber. 