A lightweight, multifunctional, robotic construction aid capable of replacing heavy, dangerous, conventional construction equipment including cranes, manlifts, scissorlifts, scaffolds, and extension ladders. More particularly, the apparatus comprises a base, a lower ladder portion, an upper ladder portion, and a support. The lower ladder portion is pivotably connected to the base and extends therefrom in a first direction. The upper ladder portion is pivotably connected to the lower ladder portion and extends therefrom in a second direction opposite the first direction and includes an access therethrough from the lower ladder portion. The support is capable of bearing the weight of the first and second ladder portions and of fixing the relative positions of the upper ladder portion, the lower ladder portion, and the base.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a base; a lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the base in a first direction, the lower ladder portion including a plurality of rungs; an upper ladder portion connected to the lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in a second direction opposite the first direction, the upper ladder portion including an access therethrough from the lower ladder portion, wherein the access is larger than the distance between adjacent rungs and sufficient for a person to pass through; and a support bearing the weight of the upper and lower ladder portions, and of fixing the relative positions of the upper ladder portion, the lower ladder portion, and the base, when the first and second ladder portions are raised and the support is set. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base includes a plurality of outriggers extending radially outward. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the support includes a plurality of guys between at least one of the outriggers and at least one of the tipper ladder portion, and the lower ladder portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the outriggers are capable of articulating to translate the base. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the base includes a platform to which outriggers are pivotably mounted. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the lower ladder portion is pivotably connected to the base. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base houses at least one of: an engine capable of moving the ladder; and a hydraulic system capable of lifting at least one of the upper ladder portion and the lower ladder portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the base includes a plurality of outriggers capable of collapsing and telescoping when powered by the engine to translate the base. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the base includes a plurality of wheels mounted thereto, the wheels being powered by the engine. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the base includes a housing for the engine and the hydraulic system. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the hydraulic system powers the support. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of wheels mounted, to the base. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the wheels are mounted so that they are capable of collapsing into the base.. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the upper and lower ladder portions may be raised and lowered relative to the base. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the upper and lower ladder portions may be raised and lowered by one of a hand crank and a hydraulic system. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the access comprises an opening between a first and a second riser of the upper ladder portion. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the access includes a removable door in the opening between the risers of the upper ladder portion. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support includes at least one of a pair of struts, a plurality of guy lines, and a pair of braces. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the support comprises at least one of: a plurality of guys extending from the base; and a plurality of pins extending through co-aligned bores. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the pair of struts comprises a pair of gin poles. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base includes a guide constraining the movement of the lower ladder portion about a first and second pair of pivots. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a second base; a second lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the second base in the second direction; a second upper ladder portion pivotably connected to the second lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in the first direction and structurally joined to the first upper ladder portion, the upper ladder portion including a second access therethrough from the second lower ladder portion; and a second support capable of fixing the relative positions of the second upper ladder portion, the second lower ladder portion, and the second base. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the first and second upper ladder portions are structurally joined by a crane section fastened to the first and second upper ladder portions, the crane section including: a rail; and a block and tackle capable of traveling the rail. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a lift suspended from a brace structurally joining the first and second upper ladder portions. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support includes means for supporting the weight of the upper and lower ladder portions and for fixing the relative positions of the upper ladder portion, the lower ladder portion, and the base. 26. An apparatus, comprising: a base; a lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the base in a first direction; an upper ladder portion connected to the lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in a second direction opposite the first direction, the upper ladder portion including a plurality of rungs; an access through the upper ladder portion from the lower ladder portion, wherein the access is larger than the distance between adjacent rungs and sufficient for a person to pass through; and means for supporting the weight of the upper and lower ladder portions and for fixing the relative positions of the upper ladder portion, the lower ladder portion, and the base. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the base includes means for stabilizing the apparatus. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the stabilizing means includes a plurality of outriggers extending radially outward from the base. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the lower ladder portion is pivotably connected to the base. 30. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the base houses at least one of: an engine capable of moving the ladder; and a hydraulic system capable of lifting at least one of the upper ladder portion and the lower ladder portion. 31. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a plurality of wheels mounted to the base. 32. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the upper and lower ladder portions may be raised and lowered relative to the base. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the upper and lower ladder portions may be raised and lowered by one of a hand crank and a hydraulic system. 34. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the accessing means comprises an opening between a first and a second riser of the upper ladder portion. 35. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the accessing means includes a removable door in the opening between the risers of the upper ladder portion. 36. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the supporting and fixing means includes at least one of a pair of struts, a plurality of guy lines, and a pair of braces. 37. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the base includes a guide constraining the movement of the lower ladder portion about the first and second pair of pivots. 38. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising: a second base; a second lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the second base in the second direction; a second upper ladder portion pivotably connected to the second lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in the first direction and structurally joined to the first upper ladder portion, means for accessing the upper ladder portion from the second lower ladder portion; and second means for supporting the weight of and fixing the relative positions of the second upper ladder portion, the second lower ladder portion, and the second base. 39. An apparatus, comprising: a first base; a first lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the rim base in a first direction; a first upper ladder portion connected to the first lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in a second direction opposite the first direction, the first upper ladder portion including a first access therethrough from the first lower ladder portion; and a first support capable of bearing the weight of the first upper and first lower ladder portions, and of fixing the relative positions of the first upper ladder portion, the first lower ladder portion, and the first base; a second base; a second lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the second base in the second direction; a second upper ladder portion pivotably connected to the second lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in the first direction and structurally joined to the first upper ladder portion, the upper ladder portion including a second access therethrough from the second lower ladder portion; a second support capable of fixing the relative positions of the second upper ladder portion, the second lower ladder portion, and the second base; and a crane section fastened to the first and second upper ladder portions, the crane including: a rail; and a block and tackle capable of traveling the rail. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein at least one of the first and second bases houses a winch powering the block and tackle. 41. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the crane section further includes a second and a third block and tackle traversing the rail and a fourth, fifth, and sixth block and tackle traversing a second rail. 42. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the crane section loads the first and second supports. 43. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the crane section is suspended from a brace between the first and second upper ladder portions. 44. An apparatus, comprising: a first base; a first lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the first base in a first direction; a first upper ladder portion connected to the first lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in a second direction opposite the first direction; means for accessing the first upper ladder portion from the first lower ladder portion; means for supporting the weight of the first upper and first lower ladder portions and for fixing the relative positions of the upper ladder portion, the lower ladder portion, and the base; a second base; a second lower ladder portion connected to and extending from the second base in the second direction; a second upper ladder portion pivotably connected to the second lower ladder portion and extending therefrom in the first direction and structurally joined to the first upper ladder portion, means for accessing the second upper ladder portion from the second lower ladder portion; second means for supporting the weight of and fixing the relative positions of the at second upper ladder portion, the second lower ladder portion, and the second base; and a crane section fastened to one of the first lower ladder portion, the first upper ladder portion, the second lower ladder portion, and the second upper ladder portion, the crane section including: a rail; and a block and tackle capable of traveling the rail. 45. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein at least one of the first and second bases houses a winch powering the block and tackle. 46. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the crane section further includes a second and a third block and tackle traversing the rail and a fourth, fifth, and sixth block and tackle traversing a second rail. 47. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the crane section loads the first and second supporting and fixing means. 48. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the crane section is suspended from a brace between the first and second upper ladder portions. 