This machine generally is an apparatus for preparing rolls of previously wound material for an unwinding machine. More particularly industrial robots are used to improve the apparatus onto which rolls of sheet form material and the like can be loaded in preparation for unwinding and then, when a previously loaded roll has been unwound, disposing of the remaining core. The robots are programmable robots including a means for engaging the transfer plug and placing the plug into the tubular core of a large roll.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for unwinding sheet material sequentially from a plurality of rolls of said sheet material, each roll being carried on a core having first and second open ends comprising: (a) a supply containing a plurality of core plugs of different sizes; (b) a programmable robot for selecting a core plug having a size suitable for insertion in each said open end; (c) an effector operable by said robot for inserting said suitable sized plug in each said open end; (d) means for delivering said roll of sheet material on said core with a plug in each said open end to an unwind machine; (e) means for removing said core from said unwind machine following unwinding of said sheet material to a spent core; and (f) a clamp for engaging said spent core. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said effector is operable to remove core plugs from spent cores. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein two programmable robots are provided, each having an effector for inserting a core plug in one of said open ends. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a single programmable robot is provided and further including a rotator for rotating a roll of sheet material on a core from a first position at which said first open end is aligned with said effector for receiving a first core plug to a second position at which said second open end is aligned with said effector for receiving a second core plug. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4 further including a second rotator for rotating a spent core from a first position at which said first open end is aligned with said effector for removal of said first core plug therefrom to a second position at which said second open end is aligned with said effector for removal of said second core plug therefrom. 6. A method for unwinding sheet material sequentially from a plurality of rolls of said sheet material, each roll being carried on a core having first and second open ends comprising the steps of: (a) providing a programmable robot and a plurality of core plugs of different sizes; (b) causing said robot to select from said plurality a core plug for each of said open ends having a size suitable for insertion in each said open end; (c) inserting said suitable sized core plug in each said open end; (d) delivering said roll of sheet material on said core with a core plug in each said open end to an unwind machine; (e) upon unwinding substantially all of said sheet material from said core to leave a spent core, removing said spent core from said unwinding machine; (f) removing said core plugs from the open ends of said spent core; (g) causing said robot to select a core plug of a suitable size for the core of the next sequential roll; (h) inserting said suitable size core plug in each open end of the core of said next sequential roll; and (i) delivering said next sequential roll to said unwind machine. 7. The method according to claim 6 further including the step of providing two programmable robots, each having an effector, and actuating each said robot to cause one effector to insert a core plug in one of said open ends and the other effector to insert a core plug in the other of said open ends. 8. The method according to claim 6 wherein a single programmable robot is provided and further including the steps of providing a rotator and actuating said rotator following step (b) to rotate a roll of sheet material on a core from a first position at which said first open end is aligned with said effector for receiving a first core plug to a second position at which said second open end is aligned with said effector for receiving a second core plug. 9. The method according to claim 8 further including the steps of providing a second rotator and actuating said second rotator to rotate said spent core from a first position at which said first open end is aligned with said effector for removal of said first core plug therefrom to a second position at which said second open end is aligned with said effector for removal of said second core plug therefrom. 