Described is a method for analyzing at least one sample in an array of samples, the method including recording an image of the position of at least one sample relative to the other sample; utilizing the recorded image to allow the application of a reagent or a succession of reagents to at least one sample in situ; and analyzing at least one sample for a reaction with the reagent(s). Also described is an apparatus for analyzing at least one sample in an array of samples, the apparatus including (a) a device to record an image of the position of at least one sample relative to the other samples; (b) a device to apply a reagent or sequence of reagents to at least one sample in situ; (c) a device to analyse at least one sample for a reaction with the reagent(s); and (d) a device to control the application of reagent(s) to the samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analysing at least one sample in an array of samples, comprising: (a) recording an image of the position of the at least one sample relative to the other samples in the array; (b) utilizing the recorded image in the application of a reagent or a succession of reagents to the at least one sample in situ; and (c) analysing the at least one sample for a reaction to or with the reagent or the succession of reagents. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the samples in the array of samples are biomolecules selected from the group consisting of proteins, peptides, saccharides, lipids, nucleic acid molecules, glycoproteins, complex carbohydrates, lipids and mixtures thereof. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the biomolecules are separated by chromatography to form an array of samples. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the chromatography is electrophoresis. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the electrophoresis is polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis is one dimension electrophoresis. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the one dimension electrophoresis is selected from the group consisting of isoelectric focusing, native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 8. The method according to claim 5 wherein the polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis is carried out in two dimensions. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the first dimension is by isoelectric focusing and the second dimension is by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. 10. The method according to claim 4 wherein the biomolecules separated by electrophoresis are transferred to a solid support. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein the solid support is a membrane selected from the group consisting of polyvinylidene difluoride, nitrocellulose, nylon, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, and derivatised forms thereof having one or more functional groups. 12. The method according to claim 10 wherein the biomolecules transferred to the solid support are visualised by association with a dye, fluorescent group or metal, or by association with a second biomolecule which is coupled with a third biomolecule, dye, fluorescent group, or metal. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the array of samples is in a plane in order to assist in the recording of the image. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the image is recorded as an electronic or digital image. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the image is generated from a scan of the samples stained or illuminated to allow the samples to be visualised and the application of the reagent or the succession of reagents is carried out using a chemical printer application system where the reagent or the succession of reagents are discharged to a desired sample by the chemical printer application system. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein the analysing is by liquid chromatography, photoelectrical, photochemical, laser, radiochemical, or mass spectral analyses. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the image is recorded as an electronic or digital image. 18. The method according to claim 17 wherein the image is generated from a scan of the samples stained or illuminated to allow the samples to be visualised and the application of the reagent or the succession of reagents is carried out using a chemical printer application system where the reagent or the succession of reagents are discharged to a desired sample by the chemical printer application system. 19. The method according to claim 17 wherein the analysing is by liquid chromatography, photoelectrical, photochemical, laser, radiochemical, or mass spectral analyses. 20. The method according to claim 1 wherein the image is generated from a scan of the samples following staining or illumination of the samples to allow the samples to be visualised and the application of the reagent or a succession of reagents is carried out using a chemical printer application system where the reagent or reagents are discharged to a desired sample by the chemical printer application system. 21. The method according to claim 1 wherein the steps (a) and (b) are repeated or cycled so as to carry out a series of manipulations of the same sample or a number of different samples in the array. 22. The method according to claim 21 wherein the series of manipulations are with the same reagent, the same set of reagents, or a number of different reagents. 23. The method according to claim 21 wherein the analysing is by liquid chromatography, photoelectrical, photochemical, laser, radiochemical, or mass spectral analyses. 24. The method according to claim 1 wherein the analysing is by liquid chromatography, photoelectrical, photochemical, laser, radiochemical, or mass spectral analyses. 25. The method according to claim 24 wherein the at least one sample is analysed directly for a given reaction product. 26. An apparatus for analysing at least one sample in an array of samples, the apparatus including: (a) means for recording an image of the position of the at least one sample relative to the other samples in the array; (b) means for applying a reagent or sequence of reagents to the at least one sample in situ; (c) means for analysing the at least one sample for a reaction to or with the reagent or the sequence of reagents; and (d) control means for means (b), wherein means (b) applies the reagent or the sequence of reagents to the at least one sample according to the position of the at least one sample relative to the other samples in the array determined by means (a). 27. The apparatus according to claim 26 further including means for recording the analysis results obtained by means (c). 28. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein means (b) is a chemical printer adapted to apply one or more reagents to the at least one sample. 29. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein means (c) is selected from the group consisting of liquid chromatograph, photoelectrical detector, photochemical detector, laser detector, radiochemical detector, and mass spectrometer. 30. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein means (a) is selected from the group consisting of scanner, photodetector, and charged coupled device. 31. The apparatus according to claim 30 wherein means (b) is a chemical printer adapted to apply one or more reagents to the at least one sample. 32. The apparatus according to claim 30 wherein means (c) is selected from the group consisting of liquid chromatograph, photoelectrical detector, photochemical detector, laser detector, radiochemical detector, and mass spectrometer. 33. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein means (b) is a chemical printer adapted to apply one or more reagents to the at least one sample. 34. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein means (c) is selected from the group consisting of liquid chromatograph, photoelectrical detector, photochemical detector, laser detector, radiochemical detector, and mass spectrometer. 35. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein means (b) is a reagent delivery and extraction device including a fluid source, a fluid control means, a fluid delivery and sampling device for delivering fluid to a sample in the array and for sampling fluid applied to the sample on the array; wherein means (c) comprises an extraction device for retaining a reaction product from a sample on the array; and wherein control means (d) comprises a control device for controlling fluid movement from the fluid source to the fluid delivery and sampling device and for controlling fluid movement from the sample to the extraction device via the fluid delivery and sampling device; wherein, when the apparatus is in use, fluid capable of producing a reaction product from a sample is applied to a sample on the array from the fluid source via the fluid control means to the fluid delivery and sampling device by the action of the control device; and wherein a portion of the fluid applied to the sample is drawn through the fluid delivery and sampling device to the extraction device by the action of the control device. 36. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the fluid control means is a 3-way valve. 37. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the control device comprises a first control device for the fluid delivery and sampling device and a second control device for the extraction device. 38. The apparatus according to claim 37 wherein the first and second control devices are piezoelectric control devices. 39. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the fluid is a reagent for reacting with a sample to produce a detectable product capable of being retained by the extraction device. 40. The apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the extraction device is a cartridge of chromatography packing. 41. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein means (c) is selected from the group consisting of liquid chromatograph, photoelectrical detector, photochemical detector, laser detector, radiochemical detector, and mass spectrometer. 42. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein control means (d) is a computer programmed to control means (b). 43. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the array of samples is on a semi-solid or substantially solid support. 44. The apparatus according to claim 43 herein the at least one sample analysed has an area less than 100 mm.sup.2. 45. The apparatus according to claim 43 wherein the at least one sample analysed has an area less than 50 mm.sup.2. 46. The apparatus according to claim 43 wherein the at least one sample analysed has an area of 1 to 10 mm.sup.2. 