A system for creating an actual waveform at the output of an electric arc welder and caused by a waveform generator where the welder has a display and customizing screen to design a commanded waveform for processing by the waveform generator. The system includes a program to display a target waveform on the screen, a program to display the commanded waveform on the screen, a computer terminal to manually customize the commanded waveform to generally match the target waveform controlling the waveform generator to cause the actual waveform produced by the welder to match with the target waveform.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A system for creating an actual waveform at the output of an electric arc welder and caused by a waveform generator, said welder having a display and customizing screen to design a commanded waveform for processing by said waveform generator, said system includes a program to display a target waveform on said screen, a program to display the commanded waveform on said screen, a computer terminal to manually customize said commanded waveform to generally match said target waveform. 2. A system as defined in claim 1 including a sensor to sense the actual waveform, a program to display said actual waveform on said screen with said target waveform; then a program to change said actual waveform to match said target waveform; and, then a program using said changed actual waveform as said commanded waveform for said waveform generator. 3. A system as defined in claim 2 wherein said waveforms on said screen are stored in memory. 4. A system as defined in claim 3 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 5. A system as defined in claim 2 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 6. A system as defined in claim 2 including a pulse width modulator to cause said actual waveform created by use of said commanded waveform directed to and controlling said waveform generator. 7. A system as defined in claim 6 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 8. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said waveforms on said screen are stored in memory. 9. A system as defined in claim) wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 10. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 11. A system as defined in claim 10 including a pulse width modulator to cause said actual waveform created by use of said commanded waveform directed to and controlling said waveform generator. 12. A system as defined in claim 11 including a sensor to sense the actual waveform, a program to load said actual waveform into a memory, a subroutine to change said actual waveform to match said target waveform and a subroutine to output said customized actual waveform as said commanded waveform. 13. A system as defined in claim 11 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 14. A system as defined in claim 1 including a pulse width modulator to cause said actual waveform created by use of said commanded waveform directed to and controlling said waveform generator. 15. A system for creating an actual waveform at the output of an electric arc welder and caused by a waveform generator, said welder including a program for designing a commanded waveform for controlling said waveform generator, said system comprises a device for loading a target waveform into memory for processing by said program; a device to store a commanded waveform in memory; a subroutine in said program to customize said commanded waveform to match said stored target waveform; and, a subroutine in said program to direct said customized commanded waveform to said waveform generator to cause said actual waveform. 16. A method for creating an actual waveform at the output of an electric welder and caused by a waveform generator, said welder having a display and customizing screen to design a commanded waveform for processing by said waveform generator, said method includes: (a) displaying a target waveform on said screen; (b) displaying the commanded waveform on said screen; (c) manually customizing said commanded waveform to generally match said target waveform; and, (d) then, welding with said commanded waveform directed to and controlling said waveform generator. 17. A method as defined in claim 16 including: (e) sensing the actual waveform; (f) displaying said actual waveform on said screen with said target waveform; (g) than changing said actual waveform to match said target waveform; and, (h) then using said changed actual waveform as said commanded waveform. 18. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 19. A method as defined in claim 16 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 20. A method for creating an actual waveform at the output of an electric arc welder and caused by a waveform generator, said method including a program for designing a commanded waveform for controlling said waveform generator, said method comprises: (a) loading a target waveform into memory for processing by said program; (b) storing a commanded waveform in memory; (c) customizing said commanded waveform to match said stored target waveform; and, (d) directing said customized commanded waveform to said waveform generator to cause said actual waveform. 21. A method as defined in claim 20 including: (e) sensing the actual waveform; (f) loading said actual waveform into a memory; (g) changing said actual waveform to match said target waveform; and, (h) outputting said customized actual waveform as said commanded waveform. 22. A system as defined in claim 21 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 23. A system as defined in claim 20 wherein said target waveform is a waveform directed to the waveform generator of a remote welder. 