A gasket or other comprising a core and a flexible outer layer prepared by co-dispensing at a temperature of about 15.degree. C. to about 30.degree. C., a core composition and an outer layer composition, wherein the core composition is an elastomer or a foam and comprises at least two reactive components, wherein each component has a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.6 cps. The core and outer layer compositions are applied in a non-solid state. The outer layer is preferably at least a two reactive-component elastomer or foam. A method for producing a gasket or other object comprising co-dispensing a core composition and an outer layer composition at a temperature of about 15.degree. C. to about 30.degree. C., wherein the core composition is an elastomer or a foam and comprises at least two reactive components, wherein the composition has a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.6 cps.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A gasket comprising a flexible or rigid core and a flexible or rigid outer layer prepared by co-dispensing at a temperature of about 15.degree. C. to about 30.degree. C., a core composition and an outer layer composition, wherein the core composition comprises at least two reactive components, the composition having a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.6 cps, and the core composition forms a foam or elastomer. 2. The gasket of claim 1 wherein the outer layer composition comprises at least two components having a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.6 cps, and the outer layer composition forms a foam or an elastomer. 3. The gasket of claim 1 wherein the core composition forms a foam, and the core composition completes foaming prior to drying or curing of the outer layer composition. 4. The gasket of claim 1 wherein the core composition forms a foam, and the outer layer composition forms a foam. 5. The gasket of claim 1 wherein the core composition forms a foam, and the outer layer composition forms a non-foamed elastomer. 6. The gasket of claim 1 wherein the outer layer composition forms a conductive elastomer or foam. 7. The gasket of claim 1 wherein the outer layer composition forms an ultra-violet resistant elastomer or foam. 8. The gasket of claim 1 wherein both the core composition and outer layer composition are elastomeric two reactive-component polyurethane resins. 9. The gasket of claim 1 wherein both the core composition and outer layer composition are elastomeric two reactive-component silicone resins. 10. The gasket of claim 1 wherein either the core composition or outer layer composition is a polyurethane and the other composition is a silicone. 11. The gasket of claim 1 wherein immediately after being dispensed from the nozzle of the meter-mix dispenser, the mixed core composition has a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.5 cps. 12. The gasket of claim 2 wherein immediately after being dispensed from the nozzle of the meter-mix dispenser, the mixed outer layer composition has a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.5 cps. 13. A method for producing a gasket or other object comprising co-dispensing a core composition and an outer layer composition at a temperature of about 15.degree. C. to about 30.degree. C., wherein the core composition forms an elastomer or a foam and comprises at least two reactive components, wherein each composition has a viscosity at 25.degree. C. of less than 10.sup.6 cps. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising allowing the co-dispensed core composition and outer layer composition to dry or cure. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the core composition forms a foam and formulating the core composition and the outer layer composition to allow the core composition to complete its foaming prior to allowing drying or curing of the outer layer composition. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising formulating the core composition to complete both foaming and drying or foaming and curing prior to allowing drying or curing of the outer layer composition. 17. The method of claim 13 wherein the outer layer composition contains a solvent, and further comprising allowing the solvent to evaporate from the outer composition. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein the temperature is about 20.degree. C. to about 25.degree. C. 19. The method of claim 13 wherein the core composition and the outer layer composition are co-dispensed into a mold. 20. The method of claim 13 wherein the core composition and the outer layer composition are co-dispensed in situ. 21. A method according to claim 13 wherein the core composition is an elastomeric resin and forms a foam during curing. 22. A method according to claim 13 wherein the outer layer composition is an elastomeric resin and remains unfoamed. 23. A method according to claim 13 wherein the outer layer composition is an elastomeric resin loaded with sufficient conductive particles to render the outer layer conductive. 