A traction unit capable of traversing and turning on surfaces that include compound curves like the surface of a sphere or are inverted like a ceiling. The traction unit includes a plurality of trucks operable to propel the unit across a surface and a plurality of adherence members operable to releasably secure the unit to the surface. In operation, the adherence members cyclically attach to and release from the surface as the trucks propel the unit across the surface. Within each cycle, after the unit has traveled a predetermined distance relative to an attached member, the member releases the surface and reattaches to the surface at a different point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A traction unit, comprising: a frame including a plurality of translation zones; a plurality of drive wheels attached to the frame and operable to propel the frame across a surface; a plurality of adherence members attached to the frame, each movable relative to the frame in more than two directions within a respective translation zone and operable to releasably secure the frame to the surface as the frame moves across the surface, each adherence member including an adherence foot attached to a body that is operable to extend the adherence foot toward the surface and retract the adherence foot from the surface; and a plurality of return mechanisms attached to the frame and each operable to move a respective adherence member to a respective return position when the body retracts the adherence foot from the surface. 2. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the adherence members and return mechanisms are operable to receive signals from a remote control system. 3. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the frame includes two portions pivotally attached to each other. 4. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein: the frame includes two halves each half having a center axis wherein the halves are pivotally attached to each other at the center axes; and a respective drive wheel and adherence member are located on both sides of each center axis. 5. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein: the frame includes two halves each half having a center axis wherein the halves are pivotally attached to each other at the center axes; and a respective drive wheel and adherence member are located on both sides of each center axis and a third respective adherence member is located at each center axis. 6. The traction unit of claim 1 further comprising a truck that includes: a truck body mounted to the frame; a respective one of the drive wheels mounted to the truck body and operable to contact and roll over the surface; and a wheel motor operable to power the drive wheel. 7. The traction unit of claim 1 further comprising a truck that includes: a truck body mounted to the frame; a bogie assembly including a retractable bogie and a belt attached to the bogie and a respective drive wheel wherein the bogey assembly is mounted to the truck body and operable to traverse over obstacles on the surface; and a wheel motor operable to power the bogie assembly. 8. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the adherence members are operable to pull the frame toward the surface with a retracting force while a respective adherence foot is attached to the surface. 9. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the adherence members are operable to suspend the frame and drive wheels away from the surface. 10. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein: the frame includes a translation zone having a hard limit operable to prevent a respective adherence member from moving relative to the frame when the adherence member contacts the hard limit; and the respective adherence member is operable to retract the adherence foot before the adherence member contacts the hard limit. 11. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein: the frame includes a translation zone having a center, a hard limit and a soft limit located between the center and the hard limit and operable to signal a remote control system when a respective adherence member crosses the soft limit; and the respective adherence member is operable to retract the adherence foot away from the surface after the adherence member crosses a soft limit and before the adherence member contacts a hard limit. 12. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the frame includes a linear frame bearing and a linear member-mount bearing attached to the linear frame bearing and a respective adherence member, wherein the linear frame bearing and linear member-mount bearing are operable to allow the adherence member to move relative to the frame and to maintain an alignment of the adherence member to the frame as the adherence member moves relative to the frame. 13. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the body includes an actuator operable to receive pressurized air to reciprocate a rod attached to the adherence foot. 14. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein an adherence foot includes a suction cup operable to attach to the surface with an attachment force and operable to adjust the attachment force based on the direction of gravity. 15. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the adherence members are operable to pull the frame toward the surface with a retracting force and are operable to adjust the retracting force based on the direction of gravity. 16. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein the frame includes a translation zone having a center, and the return position is located at the center. 17. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein a return mechanism is operable to move a respective one of the adherence members toward the return position for a predetermined duration. 18. The traction unit of claim 1 wherein a return mechanism includes a return cord passing through a hole in the frame and having a first end attached to an actuator operable to pull the cord through the hole and a second end attached to a respective one of the adherence members. 19. The traction unit of claim 1 further comprising a steering mechanism operable to turn a drive wheel relative to the frame. 20. The traction unit of claim 1 further comprising a steering mechanism operable to turn a drive wheel relative to the frame, and wherein an adherence member is operable to suspend the drive wheels away from the surface as the steering mechanism turns a drive wheel, and to move the drive wheels to contact the surface after the drive wheels are turned. 21. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of traction units attached to each other, each traction unit comprising: a frame including a plurality of translation zones; a plurality of drive wheels attached to the frame and operable to propel the frame across a surface; a plurality of adherence members attached to the frame, each movable relative to the frame in more than two directions within a respective translation zone and operable to releasably secure the frame to the surface as the frame moves across the surface, each adherence member including an adherence foot attached to a body that is operable to extend the adherence foot toward the surface and retract the adherence foot from the surface; and a plurality of return mechanisms attached to the frame and each operable to move a respective adherence member to a respective return position when the body retracts the adherence foot from the surface. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising a link assembly attached to a lead traction unit and a trail traction unit and operable to pivot the lead traction unit relative to the trail traction unit to follow an inclination in the surface. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising an obstruction sensor operable to detect a substantial inclination in the surface relative to the traction unit. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: a link assembly including a link actuator attached to a middle traction unit and operable to pivot a lead traction unit relative to the middle traction unit to follow an inclination in the surface; and an obstruction sensor attached to the lead traction unit and operable to detect a substantial inclination in the surface relative to the lead traction unit. 25. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising a link assembly attached to a lead traction unit and a trail traction unit, wherein the link assembly is operable to suspend one of the traction units above the surface while the other traction unit moves the suspended traction unit past an obstruction on the surface. 26. A traction unit comprising: a frame; a plurality of drive wheels attached to the frame and operable to propel the frame across a surface; a plurality of adherence members attached to the frame and operable to suspend the frame and drive wheels above the surface; and a steering mechanism attached to the drive wheels and operable to turn the drive wheels while the adherence members suspend the drive wheels above the surface. 27. The traction unit of claim 26 wherein the adherence members include a body having an actuator and a rod attached to the actuator, wherein the actuator is operable to move the rod toward the surface to suspend the drive wheels and frame above the surface. 