A shape memory polymer contact lens mold is formed from a sheet of a shape memory polymer in a press, an agile tool or by an agile tool formed by an inert gas at a temperature at or above the glass transition temperature which is thereupon cooled to below the glass transition temperature and removed therefrom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ophthalmic mold comprising a shape memory polymer that is a copolymer of styrene and a vinyl compound. 2. A mold in accordance with claim 1 comprising a first member and a second member. 3. A mold in accordance with claim 2 wherein said mold is prepared in a press and said second member of said mold is formed in a shape of a base curve element and said first member is formed in the shape of a front curve element. 4. A mold in accordance with claim 3 wherein said press includes a core element which interacts with said base curve element and said front curve element. 5. A mold in accordance with claim 4 wherein said base curve element and said front curve element are formed of a metal and wherein said base curve and said front curve elements have an optical fanning surface whose root mean square surface roughness is no more than about 20 nanometers. 6. A mold in accordance with claim 4 wherein said core element is provided by gas pressure. 7. A mold in accordance with claim 1 wherein a mold half of said shape memory polymer mold is prepared in a press by the steps which comprise: a) placing a preform of a shape memory polymer between a front curve or a base curve element and a core element; b) heating said preform to a temperature at or above the glass transition temperature but below the decomposition temperature but below the decomposition temperature of said shape memory polymer; c) providing a pressure sufficient to cause said shape memory polymer sheet to assume a shape of said front curve or base curve element; d) reducing the temperature of said formed shape memory polymer to below said glass transition temperature; and e) removing said formed shape memory polymer from said coining press. 8. A mold in accordance with claim 7 wherein said temperature in said step (d) is reduced to ambient. 9. A mold in accordance with claim 7 wherein said preform is a sheet of said shape memory polymer is disposed in a holder prior to said step (a) and said formed shape memory polymer is removed from said holder subsequent to said step (e). 10. A mold in accordance with claim 1 further comprising one or more mold members wherein at least one mold member is prepared in an agile tool, comprising adjustment means that are used to shape said mold member. 11. A mold in accordance with claim 10 wherein said adjustment means is a plurality or an array of concentric tubes and said agile tool further comprises a deformable molding surface. 12. A mold in accordance with claim 10 wherein said adjustment means is a plurality or an array of pins. 13. A mold in accordance with claim 10 wherein said adjustment means is an array of heaters. 14. A mold in accordance with claim 10 wherein said shape memory polymer halves are prepared in said agile tool by the steps which comprise: a) contacting a sheet of a shape memory polymer between deformable molding surface, whose shape is defined by adjustment means, and a core element under a pressure sufficient to cause said shape memory polymer sheet to assume a shape of said front curve or base curve actuated surface at a temperature at or above the glass transition temperature but below the decomposition temperature of said shape memory polymer; b) reducing the temperature of said formed shape memory polymer to below said glass transition temperature; c) moving said core element out of contact with said sheet of said shape memory polymer; and d) removing a contact lens mold half formed shape memory polymer from said agile tool. 15. A mold in accordance with claim 14 wherein said sheet of said shape memory polymer is disposed in a holder prior to said step (a) and said formed shape memory polymer is removed from said holder subsequent to said step (d). 16. A mold in accordance with claim 2 wherein at least one surface of at least one mold member is formed by gas pressure that presses the surface opposite said one surface against a surface of a press or agile tool. 17. A mold in accordance with claim 16 wherein said surface of said agile tool is formed by a plurality of concentric tubes. 18. A mold in accordance with claim 1 wherein said mold is prepared by the steps which comprise: a) disposing a sheet of a shape memory polymer upon an adjustment means, set to define a predetermined shape, said adjustment means being in a desired shape; b) elevating the temperature of said sheet of said shape memory polymer to at least the glass transition temperature but below the decomposition temperature; c) emitting a stream of gas at said sheet of said shape memory polymer at a pressure sufficient to cause a sheet of said shape memory polymer to form shape of said actuator means; d) reducing the temperature of said formed shape memory polymer to below said glass transition temperature e) removing said formed shape memory polymer from atop said adjustment means. 19. A mold in accordance with claim 18 wherein said reducing of temperature in step (d) is reduced to ambient. 20. A mold in accordance with claim 18 including the step of creating a vacuum concurrent with step (c). 21. A mold in accordance with claim 1 that further comprises intrinsic actuators. 22. A mold in accordance with claim 21, wherein said mold is prepared by the steps which comprise; a) compressing a preform with projections on one surface of said preform; b) actuating selected intrinsic actuators by heating said individual intrinsic actuators above the Tg of said intrinsic actuators; and c) cooling said intrinsic members. 23. The mold of claim 1, wherein the vinyl compound is a compound other than styrene. 24. The mold of claim 23, wherein the mold further comprises a multifunctional crosslinking agent. 25. The mold of claim 24, wherein the mold further comprises a modifying polymer. 26. The mold of claim 1, wherein vinyl said compound vinyl neodecanoate, vinyl benzoate, vinyl propionate, vinyl stearate, a methylstyrene, 4-(vinyloxy)butyl stearate or a vinyl pyridine. 27. The mold of claim 25, wherein said vinyl compound is vinyl neodecanoate, vinyl benzoate, vinyl propionate, vinyl stearate, a methylstyrene, 4-(vinyloxy)butyl stearate or a vinyl pyridine. 28. The mold of claim 24, wherein the crosslinking agent is difunctional. 29. The mold claim 28, wherein the crosslinking agent is divinyl benzene, bis(4(vinyloxy)butyl)terephthalate or bis(4-(vinyloxy)methyl)cyclohexyl)methyl terephthalate. 30. The mold of claim 25, wherein said modifying polymer is a thermoplastic polymer compatible with said polymer formed by the reaction product of said styrene andsaid vinyl compound. 31. The mold of claim 28, wherein said vinyl compound a vinyl neodecanoate and said difunctional crosslinking agent is divinyl benzene. 32. An ophthalmic mold comprising a shape memory polymer reaction mixture comprising about 30 to about 95 percent styrene, about 5 to about 60 percent vinyl compound, about 0.5 to about 5 percent of a difunctional crosslinking agent, wherein said percentages being about weight based on the total weight of the mixture. 