A power switching mechanism for selectively connecting a robotic system having two-degrees-of-freedom power input to a robot tool having a plurality of actuators. The two-degrees-of-freedom power input comprises a translation power input and a power shaft rotation input. The switching mechanism comprises an axially displaceable connector mounted to the power shaft rotation input for rotating therewith. An indexing mechanism is connected to the power shaft rotation input and is axially movable sequentially between a neutral position and an actuator engaging position for each actuator. The axially displaceable connector engages any one of the actuators in response to movement of the axial translation of the two-degrees-of-freedom power input.
Claims We claim: 1. A power switching mechanism for selectively connecting a robotic system having a two-degrees-of-freedom power input to a robot tool having at least two actuators, with said two-degrees-of-freedom power input comprising a translation power input and a power shaft rotation input, said power switching mechanism comprising: an axially displaceable connector mounted to said power shaft rotation input for rotating therewith; an indexing mechanism connected to said two-degrees-of-freedom power input and having at least three abutment positions engageable sequentially in a reciprocal movement of the translation power input such that the indexing mechanism is axially movable sequentially between a neutral position and an actuator engaging position for each said actuator, with the neutral position and the actuator engaging positions each associated with a respective one of the abutment positions; wherein the axially displaceable connector engages any one of said actuators as a function of the abutment positions of the indexing mechanism. 2. The power switching mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein a number of said actuators is two, said indexing mechanism is axially movable between said neutral position, a first actuator input engaging position, said neutral position and a second actuator input engaging position. 3. The power switching mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot tool is a gripping mechanism having at least three fingers, at least two of which are rotatably mounted for orientation on a palm. 4. The power switching mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein said gripping mechanism has a differential mechanism operatively connected to finger actuation mechanisms each causing one of said fingers to open and close, for receiving a grasp power input and transmitting the one power input into a plurality of power outputs to actuate the fingers in a close/open action, and an orienting mechanism operatively connected to the rotatable fingers for receiving one orientation input and transmitting the one input into at least two rotation outputs to rotate the at least two rotatable fingers in a finger orientation, wherein said grasp power input and said orientation input are derived from said power shaft rotation input. 5. The power switching mechanism as claimed in claim 4, wherein said indexing mechanism is axially movable sequentially between said neutral position, a grasp power input engaging position, said neutral position and an orientation input engaging position. 6. The power switching mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein said fingers have at least three degrees of freedom and said actuation mechanism differentially drives each degree of freedom of said finger. 7. A gripping mechanism comprising: at least three fingers, at least two of which are rotatably mounted for orientation on a palm; an actuation mechanism causing each of said fingers to open and close; a differential mechanism operatively connected to the respective finger actuation mechanisms for receiving a grasp power input and transmitting the one power input into a plurality of power outputs to actuate the respective fingers in a close/open action; an orienting mechanism operatively connected to the respective rotatable fingers for receiving one orientation input and transmitting the one input into at least two rotation outputs to rotate the respective at least two rotatable fingers in a finger orientation; a two-degrees-of-freedom power input receiving mechanical actuation power external to said gripping mechanism and having a rotation power input and a translation power input; and a switching mechanism having an axially displaceable connector mounted to said rotation power input for rotating therewith, and an indexing mechanism connected to said rotation power input and axially movable between engaging positions for said grasp power input and said orientation input, wherein the axially displaceable connector selectively engages any one of the grasp power input and the orientation input in response to movement of the translation power input for transmitting the rotation power input. 8. The gripping mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein said fingers have at least three degrees of freedom and said actuation mechanism differentially drives each degree of freedom of said finger. 