A contact gauge for measuring a contoured surface on work piece is presented having a matching contoured profile and multiple sensors inserted in a gauge body. The gauge body uses bores filled with spherical balls. At least one ball from each bore contacts the contoured surface, which causes displacement of the ball. The displacement is transferred to and recorded by the sensor. The layout of the gauge permits multiple sensors to be mounted in a compact gauge housing and the gauge housing, in turn, may connected to a robotic arm for rapid and repeated use as an automated measurement apparatus for a component assembly line.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring a contoured surface of a workpiece comprising: a housing comprising at least one bore; said at least one bore being adapted to slideably receive a plurality of contiguously aligned balls, wherein said at least one bore further comprises a proximal port and a distal port, and wherein said series of contiguously aligned balls includes a contour-contacting ball located at the proximal end of said at least one bore and an end ball residing at the distal end of said at least one bore; said contour-contacting ball having a portion extending outwardly from said bore at the distal port; said housing including at least one sensing element, said sensing element having a sensing end portion residing in the proximal end portion of said at least one bore and having an oppositely spaced data-transmitting end portion; said end ball being in mechanical and electrical contact with the sensing end portion of said sensing element; biasing means mounted in said at least one bore and being in mechanical and electrical contact with said sensing end portion and with said end ball; and said housing further including retaining means arranged to prevent escapement of said contour contacting ball from said at least one bore. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said biasing means comprises a helically wound compression spring having a first end and a second end, said first end being in mechanical contact with said sensing element and said second end being in mechanical contact with said at least one ball. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing comprises a plurality of bores, each of said bores including a proximal port and a distal port, and each of said bores being adapted to slideably receive said plurality of contiguously aligned balls extending between said proximal and said distal ports. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the housing is supported by an end effector and an automated workstation, and whereby said automated work station is arranged to dynamically position the housing and its supporting end effector to permit the at least one contour-contacting ball to releasably contact the workpiece. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the bore comprises a plurality of balls including a contacting ball which extends outwardly from the distal port and an end ball which is in mechanical contact with the biasing means, said means including a helically wound compression spring, whereby displacement of the contacting ball is mechanically transmitted by the plurality of balls to the end ball to mechanically interact with the compression spring. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the sensing element includes a digital probe. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a calculating means in electrical communication with each said sensing element. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 further comprising a displaying means in electrical communication with the calculating means. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing includes three bores. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the housing includes at least one curvilinear bore. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing includes two curvilinear bores. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the housing further includes a substantially straight bore. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one bore further comprises an enlarged portion adjacent to the proximal port. 14. An apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the enlarged portion is adapted to receive a portion of the sensing element. 15. A contoured contact gauge for determining a reference feature for a contoured surface, said gauge comprising: a housing comprising a plurality of bores extending from a probe end to an oppositely positioned gauge tip; each of said plurality of bores being adapted to receive a sensor and biasing means; a plurality of contiguously aligned balls slideably received in each of said plurality of bores and wherein at least one of said contiguously aligned balls is in mechanical contact with the biasing means. 16. The contoured contact gauge of claim 15 wherein the biasing means comprises a helically wound compression spring, said spring comprising a first end and a second end, said first end being adapted to mechanically contact the sensor and said second end being in mechanical contact with said at least one ball. 17. The contoured contact gauge of claim 15 further comprising a calculating means in electrical communication with at least one sensor. 18. The contoured contact gauge of claim 17 further comprising a displaying means in communication with the calculating means whereby the displaying means display the appropriately selected shim set. 19. A contoured contact gauge according to claim 15 wherein the housing includes three bores. 20. A contoured contact gauge according to claim 19 wherein the housing includes at least one bore having an enlarged portion adjacent to the probe end, said enlarged portion being adapted to receive the sensor and the biasing means whereby the sensor is in mechanical contact with the biasing means. 21. A contoured contact gauge according to claim 19 wherein each bore of said plurality of bores further comprises a retaining means located adjacent to the gauge tip; and wherein the plurality of balls further comprises a contacting ball whereby said contacting ball protrudes from the housing at said gauge tip. 22. A contoured contact gauge according to claim 21 wherein the plurality of balls further comprises an end ball, said end ball being in mechanical contact with the biasing means whereby mechanical displacement of the contacting ball is mechanically communicated through the plurality of balls to the end ball. 