A robotic tool changer with an improved safety interlock includes a master unit, a tool unit, and a coupler movable between coupled and decoupled positions and operative to couple the master and tool units. A circuit for actuating the coupler is associated with the tool unit, for connection to an interlock that closes when the tool is safely parked in a tool stand. The circuit enables the coupler to assume the decoupled position when the master and tool units are coupled and the circuit is closed. The robotic tool changer additionally includes a circuit operative to enable the coupler to assume the decoupled position when the master unit is decoupled from the tool unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot tool changer comprising: a master unit; a tool unit; a coupler selectively movable between coupled and decoupled positions and operative to couple said master and tool units together by moving the coupler to the coupled position; an electrical circuit for actuating said coupler, including: at least two contacts associated with said tool unit and operative to enable said coupler to assume said decoupled position when said contacts are electrically connected to each other; and a first switch operative to enable said coupler to assume said decoupled position only when said master unit is decoupled from said tool unit. 2. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said contacts are connected to a second switch associated with a tool connected to said tool unit, said second switch being rendered electrically conductive by proximity to a tool stand when said tool is located in the tool stand. 3. The tool changer of claim 2 further comprising at least one switch status contact associated with said tool unit. 4. The tool changer of claim 3 wherein said second switch includes a switch status indicator, and wherein said switch status indicator is connected to said at least one switch status contact. 5. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said first switch includes a switch status indicator. 6. The tool changer of claim 1 further comprising a controller operative to energize said electrical circuit to actuate said coupler to the decoupled position. 7. The tool changer of claim 6 wherein, when energized by said controller, said electrical circuit actuates said coupler to the decoupled position only when either said first or second switch is closed. 8. The tool changer of claim 7 wherein said controller is a DeviceNet controller. 9. The tool changer of claim 1 further comprising a sensor operative to detect when said master and tool units are coupled. 10. The tool changer of claim 9 wherein said sensor is operative to open said first switch when said master and tool units are coupled. 11. A method of safely decoupling a tool unit from a master unit of a robot tool changer, said tool changer including a coupler selectively movable between coupled and decoupled positions and operative to couple said master and tool units together by moving the coupler to the coupled position, comprising: sensing whether a tool connected to said tool unit is located in a tool stand; sensing whether said master unit and said tool unit are coupled together; and moving said coupler to said decoupling position only when either said master and tool unit are coupled together and said tool is located in a tool stand; or said master and tool unit are decoupled from each other. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising sensing the status of switches in an electrical circuit operative to move said coupler to said decoupling position. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein sensing whether a tool connected to said tool unit is located in a tool stand comprises sensing the state of electrical contacts associated with said tool unit. 14. A robot tool changer comprising: a master unit; a tool unit; a coupler selectively movable between coupled and decoupled positions and operative to couple said master and tool units together by moving the coupler to the coupled position; a first circuit associated with said tool unit; a second circuit associated with said master unit; said first and second circuits being connected when said master unit is coupled to said tool unit; wherein said first circuit is operative to enable the coupler to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions when said master unit and tool unit are coupled together; and wherein said second circuit is operative to enable the coupler to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions when said master unit and tool unit are decoupled from each other. 15. The robotic tool changer of claim 14 wherein said first circuit is operative to enable the coupler to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions only when said master unit and tool unit are coupled together and said second circuit is operative to enable the coupler to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions only when said master unit and tool unit are decoupled from each other. 16. The robot tool changer of claim 14 wherein said first circuit is an electrical circuit and includes at least two contacts and wherein when said master and tool units are coupled together, said coupler is enabled to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions when said contacts are electrically connected to each other. 17. The robotic tool changer of claim 16 wherein said second circuit is an electrical circuit and includes a switch that is actuated in response to said master and tool units being coupled together. 18. The robot tool changer of claim 17 wherein when said master and tool units are decoupled from each other said switch is positioned to enable the coupler to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions irrespective of whether said contacts are connected to each other or not, and wherein the coupling of said master unit to said tool units actuates said switch such that said coupler can only be enabled to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions by said contacts being electrically connected to each other. 19. The robot tool changer of claim 14 wherein said first and second circuits are pneumatic circuits and wherein when said master and tool units are coupled together, said coupler is enabled to selectively move between said coupled and decoupled positions when said first circuit is plugged. 20. The robot tool changer of claim 14 wherein said first and second circuits are physically separated when said master and tool modules are decoupled from each other, and wherein said first and second circuits are connected to each other when said master and tool units are coupled together. 21. The robot tool changer of claim 16 wherein said contacts are disposed on the tool unit. 22. The robot tool changer of claim 17 wherein said coupler normally assumes a coupled position and wherein said robotic tool changer includes a controller operatively connected said switch for directing an uncoupling signal to said switch. 23. A robot tool changer comprising: a master unit; a tool unit; a coupler movable between coupled and decoupled positions and operative to couple said master and tool units together by moving the coupler to the coupled position; a control circuit for selectively controlling the transmission of a control signal to the coupler, the control circuit including: a first circuit associated with the tool unit and including at least two contacts; a second circuit including a switch operative to receive the control signal and movable between first and second positions; the first and second circuits being electrically connected to each other as a result of the master and tool units being coupled together; said switch assuming a first position when the master and tool units are decoupled from each other such that the control signal is directed to the coupler; said switch assuming a second position in response to the master and tool units being coupled together; and wherein when said switch assumes the second position the control signal is directed to the coupler only if the contacts are electrically connected to each other. 24. The robot tool changer of claim 23 including a controller for directing the control signal to the switch. 25. The robot tool changer of claim 24 wherein the controller includes an input, and wherein when said switch is in the second position, the control signal is directed to said input. 26. The robot tool changer of claim 23 wherein the contacts are connected to a switch associated with a tool. 27. The robot tool changer of claim 23 including a sensor for sensing the coupling of the master and tool units together and for causing the switch to assume the second position. 28. A method of controlling the decoupling of a robot tool changer having a master unit, tool unit, coupler and at least two contacts disposed on the tool unit, comprising: sensing when the tool unit is decoupled from the master unit and permitting the coupler to be actuated such that the coupler may be moved from a coupled position to a decoupled position; and sensing when the tool unit is coupled to the master unit, and permitting the coupler to move from the coupled position to the decoupled position only when the contacts are electrically connected to each other. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the coupler normally assumes a coupled position and wherein the method includes enabling a control signal to be directed to the coupler when the tool unit is decoupled from the master unit; and when the tool unit is coupled to the master unit, enabling the control signal to be directed to the coupler only when the contacts are electrically connected to each other. 