A library of materials is screened for mechanical properties such as strength, tack, frictional resistance or other properties. A library of materials is provided. A stimulus such as a stress or force is provided to each member of the library. A response (e.g., a strain) of each of the materials due to the stimulus is measured and the response, the stimulus or both are recorded and related to provide data. Thereafter, the data is analyzed to reach conclusions regarding properties of the material samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for screening an array of materials for a frictional force, comprising: providing a library of at least four material samples; applying one or more translational or rotational forces to each of the at least four material samples with one or more probes wherein the one or more probes contact the material samples and are moved by an automatic system for applying the one or more forces; monitoring a response of each of the at least four material samples to the one or more forces; and correlating the response of each of the at least four material samples to a frictional force of each of the at least four material samples, the frictional force resisting the movement of the one or more probes. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein the step of providing a library of at least four material samples includes placing each of the at least four material samples on a single substrate. 3. A method as in claim 2, further comprising lowering the temperature of the at least four material samples prior to applying the one or more forces to the at least four material samples. 4. A method as in claim 2, further comprising raising the temperature of the at least four material samples prior to applying the one or more forces to the at least four material samples. 5. A method as in claim 2, further comprising raising or lowering the humidity surrounding the at least four material samples. 6. A method as in claim 2, wherein a first of said one or more forces is applied to a first of the at least four material samples no more than five minutes previous to applying a second of said one or more forces to a second of the at least four material samples. 7. A method as in claim 1, wherein said library includes at least 16 different material samples. 8. A method as in claim 1, wherein the step of providing the material samples includes attaching one or more panel materials to a substrate. 9. A method as in claim 8, wherein the step of providing the material samples includes dispensing at least four aliquots of liquid upon discrete locations of the one or more panel material for forming the at least four material samples. 10. A method as in claim 9, wherein the at least four aliquots of liquid are at least slightly varied with respect to amount or composition. 11. A method as in claim 1, wherein the step of applying one or more forces to each of the at least four material samples with one or more probes includes contacting a surface of the one or more probes with a surface of the at least four material samples and urging the surface of the one or more probes to slide relative to the surface of the at least four material samples. 12. A method as in claim 1, wherein said library includes at least 16 different materials, each attached to a single substrate and wherein the throughput rate of testing the at least 16 different materials is no greater than 10 minutes per material. 13. A method as in claim 1, wherein said automatic system includes a robot arm. 14. A method for measuring a frictional force of a plurality of material samples, the method comprising the steps of: providing a library comprising at least four different material samples; and serially measuring the frictional force of each of the at least four different material samples at a throughput rate no greater than about 5 minutes per material sample, wherein the frictional force is measured by contacting one or more probes to the at least four different materials samples with an automatic system for applying one or more translational or rotational forces. 15. A method as in claim 14, wherein the library includes at least 8 different material samples. 16. A method as in claim 14, wherein the library includes at least 16 different material samples. 17. A method of claim 14, wherein the frictional force of the at least four material samples is measured at an average sample-throughput of not more than about 2 minutes per material sample. 18. A method of claim 14 wherein the library comprises at least 8 material samples and at least about 50% of the at least 8 material samples are different from each other. 19. A method of claim 14, wherein the library comprises at least 16 material samples and at least 75% of the at least 16 material samples are different from each other. 20. A method for screening an array of materials for a frictional force, comprising: providing one or more panel materials; attaching the one or more panel material to a substrate; dispensing at least four aliquots of liquid upon at least four discrete locations of the one or more panel materials for forming at least four panel material samples, each of the one or more panel materials providing an exposed surface; contacting a surface of the one or more panel materials with a surface of one or more probes using an automated system; urging the surface of the one or more probes to translate or rotate across the exposed surface of the at least four panel materials; measuring the resistance of the surface of the one or more material samples to the urging of the one or more probes; ranking the one or more material samples relative to each other based upon the measured resistance. 21. A method of claim 19, wherein the one or more panel materials are fabrics and the at least four aliquots of liquid are softeners. 