A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot am. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripping tool for a bending apparatus, said bending apparatus comprising a robotic arm moveable about multiple axes, comprising: a pair of opposing gripping fingers moveable between open and closed positions, said pair of opposed gripping fingers mounted to the end of said robotic arm, said gripping fingers for gripping a workpiece and thereby bending and/or twisting said workpiece by virtue of movement of said robotic arm while gripping said workpiece while a first portion of said workpiece remains fixed relative to said gripping fingers; a force system coupled to said gripping fingers for detecting forces imparted by a workpiece either during bending or after a bend has been placed in said workpiece; and a heating system for heating said opposing gripping fingers above ambient temperature. 2. The gripping tool of claim 1, further comprising a resistive heating System supplying a current to said gripping tool so as to apply resistive heat to said workpiece. 3. A gripping tool for a bending apparatus for bending orthodontic archwires, said bending apparatus comprising a robotic arm moveable about multiple axes and a fixed gripping tool, comprising: a pair of opposing gripping fingers moveable between open and closed positions, said pair of opposed gripping fingers mounted to the end of said robotic arm, said gripping fingers for gripping an orthodontic archwire and thereby bending and/or twisting said orthodontic archwire by virtue of movement of said robotic arm while gripping said orthodontic archwire arid while a first portion of said workpiece remains held by said fixed gripping tool; and wherein said pair of opposed gripping fingers and fixed gripping tool are operative to advance said orthodontic archwire through said fixed gripping tool in a series of steps and bend successive segments of said orthodontic archwire to thereby form a completed orthodontic archwire having a predetermined shape. 