Two independently articulated arms supporting an x-ray tube and x-ray detector, respectively, are mounted offset to the patient and controlled to simulate a wide variety of conventional x-ray positioners. The arms are at least partially defined by a plurality of links that are connected at joints having independent axes of motion. The number of links, and corresponding degrees of freedom for the arms may be predetermined based on the end user application for the positioner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An x-ray imaging system comprising: an x-ray source producing an x-ray beam; an x-ray detector detecting x-rays received from the x-ray source; first and second articulated arms, each of which having a distal end supporting the x-ray source and x-ray detector, respectively, wherein each of the arms includes a plurality of links connected at joints having independent axes of motion; and an axis controller sending movement signals to each arm and receiving position signals to coordinate movement of the source and detector according to a predefined operating program, wherein additional links are capable of being added to each of the arms or the existing links are capable of being removed from each of the arms to provide greater or fewer axes of motion for each arm. 2. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein the operating program is adjustable to compensate for addition and removal of links from the arms. 3. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein the axes of motion are selected from the group consisting of angulation and translation. 4. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein each arm defines a proximal end opposite the distal end, further comprising abase supporting the proximal ends of each arm, and wherein one of the links is connected to the base via a shoulder axis that provides angulation of the arm with respect to the base. 5. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein one of the links of the first and second arm is connected to the source and detector, respectively, via a wrist joint providing angulation of the source and detector relative to said one of the links. 6. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein one of the links provides translation along a direction selected from the group consisting of horizontal direction and vertical direction. 7. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 6, wherein the translation occurs between first and second joints that provide angulation for the arm. 8. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 6, wherein at least one of the joints enables the corresponding link to rotate about at least two independent axes of rotation. 9. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein each arm defines a proximal end opposite the distal end, further comprising a base supporting the proximal ends of each arm, and at least one of the joints is an elbow axis located remotely from the proximal end and the distal end and providing angulation for the arm. 10. The x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to hold the axes of the x-ray source and x-ray detector in alignment with movement of the x-ray source and x-ray detector. 11. The x-ray imaging system recited in claim 10 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to maintain the axes of the x-ray source and x-ray detector in alignment with a direction selected form the group consisting of vertical and horizontal during motion of the x-ray source. 12. The x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the independent axes to orbit about a point not intercepted by any individual of axes of angular movement of the first and second articulated arm. 13. The x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the first and second arms to change the distance separating the x-ray detector and x-ray source by controlling the angulation of at least two axes of motion. 