A walking platform that achieves automatic self-stabilization includes a motor within the mid-region of the platform that is in communication with a crankshaft. The crankshaft has a connecting rod that is rotatably attached to it. The connecting rod, in turn, has a pole that is rotatably attached to it. There is a foot attached that is capable of supporting the weight of the platform. The motor is powered by a battery that causes the components of the platform to simulate a walking motion. This battery is attached to the lower portion of the platform in order to lower the center of gravity of the platform. The platform also includes at least one levered component that is rotatably attached to the platform, allowing it to pivot freely and dampen oscillations produced by the walking platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A walking platform that is capable of achieving automatic self-stabilization comprising: a motor within the mid-region of the platform having a drive shaft extending therefrom; a pole that is mechanically coupled with said motor, acting as a leg for said platform; a body supported by said platform; a foot that is capable of supporting the weight of said platform; an adjustable pivot point that couples said pole to said motor, said pivot point being located intermediate said drive shaft and said foot allowing said pole to adjustably swing back and forth in a stepping motion without the use of computers, servo controls or computing regulating mechanisms; and a battery attached to the lower portion of the leg, thereby lowering the center of gravity of said platform and said body for stable and uniform movement thereof, said battery being capable of energizing said motor for supplying power to said motor, resulting in said pole and said foot providing a waking motion. 2. The platform of claim 1 which further comprises of at least one levered component that is rotatably attached to the platform, allowing it to pivot freely thereby dampening oscillations caused by the motion produced by the walking platform. 3. The platform of claim 2 wherein said pole is mechanically coupled to said motor by way of a crankshaft that is in communication with said drive shaft and a connecting rod that is rotatably attached to said crankshaft while said pole is rotatably attached to said connecting rod at said pivot point. 4. The platform of claim 3 wherein said communication between said crankshaft and said drive shaft comprises: a worm gear that is fixedly attached to said drive shaft; and a drive gear whose teeth mesh with the teeth of said worm gear, said drive gear being fixedly attached to said crankshaft. 5. The platform of claim 4 when said crankshaft comprises a first crank throw and a second crank throw which have a phase angle of 180 degrees between them with said connecting rod being rotatably attached to said first crank throw. 6. The platform of claim 5 which further comprises: a second connecting rod that is rotatably attached to said second crank throw; a second pole that is rotatably attached to said second connecting rod at a second pivot point; and a second foot that is capable of supporting the weight of said platform. 7. The platform of claim 6 which further comprises a first weight attached to said first foot and a second weight attached to said second foot, thereby lowering the center of gravity of said platform. 8. The platform of claim 7 which further comprises a second battery attached to the lower portion of said platform, thereby lowering the center of gravity of said platform, said second battery being attached by a wire to said motor, thereby supplying power to said motor causing it to rotate said drive shaft, said worm gear, said drive gear, and said crankshaft, resulting in said first connecting rod, said second connecting rod, said first pole, said second pole, said first foot, and said second foot providing a walking motion. 9. The platform of claim 8 wherein said first pivot point and said second pivot point may be adjusted, thereby changing the effective length of said first connecting rod and said second connecting rod, allowing a change to the gait radius and the length of stride, giving the platform the ability to turn. 10. The platform of claim 9 wherein a regulator is interposed between any battery and said motor, allowing adjustment of the voltage supplied to said motor, thereby controlling the speed of said motor and the rate at which the platform moves. 11. The platform of claim 10 wherein the levered components comprise two arms that are rotatably attached to the platform, allowing them to pivot freely, thereby dampening oscillations caused by the motion produced by the walking platform. 12. The platform of claim 11 wherein the levered components further comprise a head that sits atop a neck rod, said head being free to pivot for a substantial angle until it is prevented from further rotation by a stop that is connected to said neck rod and is disposed within the head. 13. The platform of claim 12 wherein the platform further comprises a reversing motor and a one-way clutch, allowing said platform to pivot on one leg while the other walks in a backwards fashion, said platform having means to be remotely controlled using a radio frequency signal transmission. 14. The platform of claim 12 wherein said platform includes means to be remotely controlled allowing adjustment of any pivot point, thereby causing said platform to turn. 15. The platform of claim 12 wherein the platform further comprises means for voice input and output computer control, allowing the user to tell the platform to walk, turn, stop, and talk. 16. The platform of claim 12 which uses an infrared retro sensor, retro tape fixed navigational points, robot specific objects, and a collision switch to allow the platform to gain bearings on objects within its environment and move toward them until it contacts them before turning and seeking the next object and walking toward it. 17. The method for achieving automatic self-stabilization of a walking platform comprising: lowering the center of gravity of said platform by attaching weights or batteries to the lower portion of said platform for stable and uniform movement thereof; dampening oscillations caused by the motor or walking motion of said platform by providing at least one levered component that is free to move in response to said oscillations, thereby breaking up any harmonic resonance; and adjustably controlling the ability of a walking platform to turn by changing the length of stride of one leg as compared to another leg motion without the use of computers, servo controls or computing regulating mechanisms. 18. The platform of claim 17 wherein the lower portion of the leg where said battery is attached is said foot. 19. A walking platform that is capable of achieving automatic self-stabilization comprising: a motor within the mid-region of the platform having a drive shaft extending therefrom; a pole that is mechanically coupled with said motor, acting as a leg for said platform; a body supported by said platform; a foot that is capable of supporting the weight of said platform; an infrared retro sensor, retro tape fixed navigational points, robot specific objects, and a collision switch to allow the platform to gain bearings on objects within its environment and move toward them until it contacts them before turning and seeking the next object and walking toward it; an adjustable pivot point that couples said pole to said motor, said pivot point being located intermediate said drive shaft and said foot allowing said pole to adjustably swing back and forth in a stepping motion; and a battery attached to the lower portion of the leg, thereby lowering the center of gravity of said platform and said body for stable and uniform movement thereof, said battery being capable of energizing said motor for supplying power to said motor, resulting in said pole and said foot providing a walking motion. 