A polishing method and apparatus can concurrently establish a stable removal rate, a small step height reduction rate, and reduction of detects on the polished surface for various kinds of polished subjects, while providing less environmental problems and requiring less processing costs. The method for polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer comprises first polishing a surface of the semiconductor wafer by a first fixed abrasive polishing method; and finish polishing the polished surface of the semiconductor wafer by a second fixed abrasive polishing method different from the first fixed abrasive polishing method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer, comprising: first polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer by performing a first fixed abrasive polishing operation; and finish polishing the polished surface of said semiconductor device wafer as a final polishing operation to remove scratches from the polished surface, by performing a second fixed abrasive polishing operation that is different from said first fixed abrasive polishing operation. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing operation uses a second fixed abrasive polishing tool that is different from a first fixed abrasive polishing tool used in said first fixed abrasive polishing operation. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool is softer than said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool has a lower elastic modulus than that of said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 5. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool comprises second abrasive particles having a lower hardness than that of first abrasive particles in said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool has a higher abrasive particle self-generation ability than that of said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 7. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool comprises a higher porosity than that of said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 8. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool has a lower binder ratio than that of said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 9. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool comprises a water soluble binder. 10. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool comprises second abrasive particles having a smaller diameter than that of first abrasive particles in said first fixed abrasive polishing tool. 11. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool comprises elastic micro-particles embedded in a binder. 12. The method according to claim 2, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing tool comprises a laminated configuration including an upper hard tool layer and a lower elastic layer. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing operation is performed in a second condition that is different from a first condition in which said first fixed abrasive polishing operation is performed. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said second fixed abrasive polishing operation uses a second polishing solution that is different from a first polishing solution used in said first fixed abrasive polishing operation. 15. The method according to claim 1, further comprising dressing a polishing tool while said polishing tool is being used in said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and/or said second fixed abrasive polishing operation. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising cleaning said semiconductor device wafer between said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation are performed by using the same fixed abrasive polishing tool during different polishing conditions. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation are performed by using the same fixed abrasive polishing tool and different polishing solutions. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation are performed by using the same fixed abrasive polishing tool, and further comprising dressing said fixed abrasive polishing tool concurrently with performance of a respective one of said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation are performed by using the same fixed abrasive polishing tool, and further comprising cleaning said semiconductor device wafer between said first fixed abrasive polishing operating and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation are performed by using the same fixed abrasive polishing tool, and further comprising cleaning or dressing said fixed abrasive polishing tool between said first fixed abrasive polishing operation and said second fixed abrasive polishing operation. 22. A method for polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer, comprising: first polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer with a first polishing tool; and finish polishing the polished surface of said semiconductor device wafer, in order to remove substantially all scratches remaining on the polished surface of said semiconductor device wafer, with a fixed abrasive polishing tool. 23. A method for polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer, comprising: first polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer with a first fixed abrasive; and finish polishing the polished surface of said semiconductor device wafer as a final polishing operation to remove scratches from the polished surface, with a second fixed abrasive is different from said first fixed abrasive. 24. A method for polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer, comprising: first polishing a surface of a semiconductor device wafer with a first polishing tool; and finish polishing the polished surface of said semiconductor device wafer as a final polishing operation, in order to substantially remove any scratches remaining on the polished surface of said semiconductor device wafer, with a fixed abrasive polishing tool. 