A parallel high throughput method and kit for the discovery of small molecule interactors of target proteins, in particular, target proteins expressed from entire genomes or subsets thereof. The target module is prepared by binding selectively a target protein, modified to allow its detection, to a surrogate ligand that is linked to an individually detectable bead. Sets of target modules are mixed together in each chamber of a multi-chamber container. A test compound or collection of test compounds is added to each chamber, and the interaction of a compound with each target module is observed. A compound that is specific for a particular target protein will displace that protein from its target module. The identity of the target module so disrupted is determined by identifying the particular bead to which the displaced target protein was attached.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: a) obtaining a plurality of target proteins; b) obtaining a first set of surrogate ligands, wherein each surrogate ligand in said set of surrogate ligands is a peptide and binds selectively to a first target protein; c) binding said first set of surrogate ligands to first detectable beads to form a first set of surrogate ligand-bead complexes, wherein said first detectable beads can all be detected by the optical characteristics of said first detectable beads; d) combining said first set of surrogate ligand-bead complexes with said first target protein labeled for detection to form a first target module; e) repeating steps a, b, c and d, either concurrently or subsequently with a different set of surrogate ligands and detectable beads, and with either said first target protein or a different target protein, to form sets of target modules; f) adding said sets of target modules to each chamber of a multi-chamber container; g) adding a test compound, or a collection of test compounds, to each chamber of said multi-chamber container; h) detecting displacement of a target protein with a test compound; and i) determining the identity of each target protein that is displaced with a test compound. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein obtaining each said set of surrogate ligands comprises: a) obtaining a phage library, wherein each phage of said library displays foreign peptides; b) mixing said phage library with each said target protein of said plurality of target proteins; c) isolating phages displaying said foreign peptides that bind selectively to each said target protein; d) isolating DNA encoding said foreign peptides that bind to each said target protein; e) sequencing said DNA; and f) synthesizing said set of surrogate ligands based on said sequencing. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said set of target proteins are obtained by: a) selecting target genes from a genome; b) expressing each of said target genes to produce said set of target proteins; and c) purifying said target proteins. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target protein in step (e) is said first target protein. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target protein in step (e) is a target protein different from said first target protein. 6. The method according to claim 1, comprising: a) biotinylating said target proteins; and b) linking said target proteins with avidin-phycoerythrin. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate ligand is a peptide. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate ligand is a RNA aptamer. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said surrogate ligand is a beta-peptide. 10. A method according to claim 1, comprising labeling each said individual bead with a defined combination of two dyes. 11. A method according to claim 1, comprising labeling each said individual bead with a defined combination of three dyes. 12. A method according to claim 1, comprising labeling each said individual bead with a defined population of quantum dots. 13. A method according to claim 10, wherein the number of said sets of target modules is 100 such that 100 target proteins are screened in each said chamber. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the amount of said compound used per said chamber falls within the range of 0.1 to 100 ng. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein the enzymatic or regulatory function of each said target proteins of said plurality of target proteins is unknown. 16. A kit for screening a plurality of target proteins from a genome comprising: a) sets of target modules, wherein each set of said sets of target modules comprises: (1) individually detectable beads; (2) a set of surrogate ligands attached to said detectable beads, wherein the surrogate ligands of said set of surrogate ligands are peptides and are bound selectively to the same or different target protein of said plurality of target proteins; (3) wherein said target proteins are labeled for detection; and b) a multi-chamber container, wherein said sets of target modules are stored in each chamber of said mult-chamber container. 17. A kit according to claim 16 wherein said plurality of target proteins are of unknown function. 18. A kit according to claim 16 wherein the number of said target proteins is greater than 50. 19. A kit according to claim 16 wherein the number of said target proteins is greater than 500. 20. A kit for screening a plurality of target proteins from a genome comprising: a) a set of ligand-bead complexes, wherein each said ligand-bead complex comprises: (1) a detectable bead; (2) a surrogate ligand comprising a peptide attached to said detectable bead; b) a plurality of target proteins, each said target protein of said plurality of target proteins is capable of selectively binding to a surrogate ligand; and c) a multi-chamber container, wherein said plurality of ligand-bead complexes are stored in each chamber of said multi-chamber container, said target proteins being stored separately from said ligand-bead complexes. 21. A kit according to claim 20 wherein said target proteins are of unknown function. 22. A kit according to claim 20 wherein the number of said target proteins is greater than 50. 23. A kit according to claim 20 wherein the number of said target proteins is greater than 500. 24. In a method for high throughput screening using individually detectable beads, surrogate ligands, and a plurality of target proteins, the improvement comprising, a) combining in each chamber of a multi-chamber container sets of target modules, i) wherein each target module within each set of said sets of target modules comprises a ligand-bead complex and a target protein labeled for detection; ii) wherein said ligand-bead complex comprises a surrogate ligand comprising a peptide coupled to an individually detectable bead; iii) wherein each said surrogate ligand binds selectively to one of said target proteins; b) adding to each said chamber of said multi-chamber container a test compound, whereby said compound displaces said target proteins from said target modules to which said target compounds interact; c) detecting displacement of a target protein with a test compound; and d) determining the identity of each target protein that is displaced with a test compound. 25. The method according to claim 24, wherein the function of said plurality of target proteins are unknown. 26. The method according to claim 24, wherein obtaining each said set of surrogate ligands comprises: a) obtaining a phage library, wherein each phage of said library displays foreign peptides; b) mixing said phage library with each said target protein of said plurality of target proteins; c) isolating phages displaying said foreign peptides that bind selectively to each said target protein; d) isolating DNA encoding said foreign peptides that bind to each said target protein; e) sequencing said DNA; and f) synthesizing said set of surrogate ligands based on said sequencing. 27. The method according to claim 24, wherein said set of target proteins are obtained by: a) selecting target genes from a genome; b) expressing each of said target genes to produce said set of target proteins; and c) purifying said target proteins. 