In an automated welding machine, where a flow of liquid coolant is supplied to welding components on the machine from a source of coolant and then returned to the source of coolant, a safety system is provided that shuts down the flow of coolant in the event of a fault. Faults are detected by a supply sensor and a return sensor for measuring the flow rates of coolant in the supply and return lines. A microprocessor is adapted to compare the supply flow rate and return flow rate and detect differences between the two rates. The difference between the detected rates as compared to a leak threshold value, and the microprocessor is adapted to generate a valve shutoff signal in the event the detected difference in flow rates exceeds the leak threshold value. A value in the supply coolant line is responsive to the valve shutoff signal to shutoff flow of coolant in response thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, said method comprising: generating first and second signals that are each indicative of an associated different one of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components and a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; concurrently monitoring to detect if the first signal indicates that an associated one of the supply flow rate and the return flow rate has crossed a threshold flow rate and to detect if the first and second signals indicate that a leak threshold value has been exceeded based upon at least a baseline flow rate calculated from the first signal; in response to detecting that the first signal indicates that the threshold flow rate has been crossed, generating an alarm signal indicative of the detection, wherein the threshold flow rate is a high flow threshold rate; and in response to a determination that the leak threshold has been exceeded, generating a valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant. 2. The method of claim 1, and further comprising closing a valve in response to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein closing a valve comprises closing a valve in the supply coolant line. 4. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: calculating a coolant flow rate from at least one of the first and second signals; and displaying the coolant flow rate. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the threshold flow rate comprises a first threshold flow rate, said method further comprising: detecting whether the coolant flow rate associated with the second signal crosses a second threshold flow rate; and in response to detecting the coolant flow rate crossing the second threshold flow rate, generating a signal indicative of the detection. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second threshold flow rate is a low flow threshold rate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: generating said first and second signals comprises generating said first and second signals utilizing first and second flow sensors; and said method further comprises: a third auxiliary flow sensor detecting a low return flow rate in the return coolant line; and in response to detection of a low return flow rate in the return coolant line, generating an alarm signal. 8. The method of claim 1, and further comprising recording a number of times the leak threshold value has been exceeded. 9. The method of claim 8, and further comprising: in response to a history input, displaying the number as a number of detected leaks. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the water saver apparatus includes a processor, said method further comprising automatically calibrating the processor to compensate for flow sensor drifts. 11. The method of claim 1, and further comprising sensing a coolant temperature in at lest one of the supply coolant line and the return coolant line. 12. The method of claim 1, and further comprising automatically shutting off coolant flow after a predetermined period of inactivity of said welding machine. 13. The method of claim 1, the water saver apparatus including a supply rotor and a return rotor, wherein: generating the first signal comprises generating the first signal in response to rotation of the supply rotor; and generating the second signal comprises generating the second signal in response to rotation of the return rotor. 14. The method of claim 1, and further comprising determining occurrence of a check valve error in response to sensing coolant flow through the return coolant line and absence of coolant flow through the supply coolant line. 15. The method of claim 1, and further comprising determining occurrence of a value bypass condition in response to detection of both supply coolant flow and return coolant flow following generation of the valve shut-off signal. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals comprises: determining a supply flow rate utilizing the first signal and determining a return flow rate from the second signal; and determining if a difference between the supply flow rate and the return flow rate is greater than the leak threshold value. 17. The method of claim 12, and further comprising automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow in response to an input signal indicating resumption of welding activity by said welding machine. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow comprises automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow only if no valve shut-off signal is active. 19. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, said method comprising: generating a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; generating a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals; in response to a determination that the leak threshold value has been exceeded, generating a valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant; and recording a number of times the leak threshold value has been exceeded. 20. The method of claim 19, and further comprising: in response to a history input, displaying the number as a number of detected leaks. 21. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, wherein said water saver apparatus includes a processor, said method comprising: a first flow sensor generating a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; a second flow sensor generating a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals; in response to a determination that the leak threshold has been exceeded, generating a valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant; and automatically calibrating the processor to compensate for flow sensor drifts. 22. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, said method comprising: generating a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; generating a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals; in response to a determination that the leak threshold has been exceeded, generating a value shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant; and said water saver apparatus automatically shutting off coolant flow after a predetermined period of inactivity of said welding machine. 23. The method of claim 22, and further comprising automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow ion response to an input signal indicating resumption of welding activity by said welding machine. 24. The method of claim 29, wherein automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow comprises automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow only if no valve shut-off signal is active. 25. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, the water saver apparatus including a supply rotor and a return rotor, said method comprising: generating a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components in response to rotation of the supply rotor; generating a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components in response to rotation of the return rotor; determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals; in response to a determination that the leak threshold has been exceeded, generating a value shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant; and determining occurrence of a check valve error and signaling an alarm in response to sensing coolant flow through the return rotor and absence of coolant flow through the supply rotor. 26. The method of claim 25, and further comprising determining occurrence of a valve bypass condition in response to detection of both supply coolant flow and return coolant flow following generation of the valve shut-off signal. 27. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, said method comprising: a first flow sensor generating a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; a second flow sensor generating a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals; in response to a determination that the leak threshold has been exceeded, generating a valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant; and a third auxiliary flow sensor detecting a low return flow in the return coolant line and, in response to detection of a low return flow rate, generating an alarm. 28. A method of operating a water saver apparatus coupled to supply and return coolant lines of a welding machine, the water saver apparatus including a supply rotor and a return rotor, said method comprising: generating a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components in response to rotation of the supply rotor; generating a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components in response to rotation of the return rotor; determining whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded utilizing the first and second signals; in response to a determination that the leak threshold has been exceeded, generating a value shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant; and automatically shutting off coolant flow after a predetermined period of inactivity of said welding machine and automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow in response to an input signal indicating resumption of welding activity by said welding machine. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow comprises automatically permitting resumption of coolant flow only if no valve shut-off signal is active. 