An apparatus for processing a workpiece in a micro-environment includes a workpiece housing connected to a motor for rotation. The workpiece housing forms a substantially closed processing chamber where one or more processing fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. Multiple housings may be vertically stacked and rotated about a common rotation axis to simultaneously process multiple workpieces in a small space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a plurality of workpieces comprising: a first process housing and a second process housing rotatable with the first process housing about a common rotation axis, and with each process housing enclosing a process chamber that substantially conforms to a workpiece, each process housing further including a fluid inlet leading into the process chamber and a fluid outlet positioned to allow escape of fluid from the process housing via centrifugal force generated by rotation of the process housing; a fluid supply system in communication with the fluid inlet of each process housing for supplying fluid into each of the process chambers, wherein fluid is distributed across a surface of a workpiece within each process chamber via centrifugal force generated by rotation of the process housings. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second process housings are stacked vertically with respect to one another, and with each workpiece in a substantially horizontal plane. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fluid supply system includes a stationary manifold in communication with a rotating manifold, and wherein the stationary manifold supplies fluid to the rotating manifold. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the fluid supply system further includes a plurality of fluid supply lines, each fluid supply line extending from the rotating manifold to a region adjacent to the fluid inlet of at least one of the process housings. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein at least one of the fluid supply lines terminates at a nozzle portion adjacent to the fluid inlet of at least one process housing, and with the nozzle portion providing a fluid stream through the fluid inlet of the at least one process housing. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein at least one nozzle portion is disposed between two process housings and provides a fluid stream into the fluid inlet of each of the two process housings. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the rotating manifold is connected for co-rotation with the process housings. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein an upper portion of the rotating manifold includes a fluid outlet through which fluid is provided to the fluid inlet of one process housing. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each process housing includes an upper fluid inlet for directing fluid onto an upper surface of the workpiece disposed therein, and a lower fluid inlet for directing fluid onto a lower surface of the workpiece disposed therein. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the fluid supply system concurrently supplies the same fluid to the upper fluid inlet as to the lower fluid inlet of each process housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the fluid supply system concurrently supplies a different fluid to the upper fluid inlet than to the lower fluid inlet of each process housing. 12. An apparatus for processing a plurality of workpieces comprising: a rotor motor; a plurality of process housings rotatably connected to the rotor motor about a common axis of rotation, each process housing enclosing a process chamber that substantially conforms to a workpiece; a fluid supply system in communication with each of the process housings for supplying fluid into each of the process chambers, wherein fluid is distributed across a surface of each workpiece via centrifugal acceleration generated by rotation of the process housings. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein each process housing includes a fluid inlet in communication with the fluid supply system and leading into the process chamber, and a fluid outlet disposed at a periphery of the process chamber to allow escape of fluid from the process housing via centrifugal acceleration generated by rotation of the process housing. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the fluid supply system includes a stationary manifold in communication with a rotating manifold, the stationary manifold adapted to supply fluid to the rotating manifold. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the fluid supply system further includes a plurality of fluid supply lines, each fluid supply line extending from the rotating manifold to a region proximate to a fluid inlet in one of the process housings. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein at least one of the fluid supply lines terminates at a nozzle portion disposed proximate to the fluid inlet, the nozzle portion providing a fluid stream through the fluid inlet. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein at least one nozzle portion is disposed between two process housings and provides a fluid stream into a fluid inlet of each of the two process housings. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the rotating manifold is connected for co-rotation with the process housings. 19. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein an upper portion of the rotating manifold includes a fluid outlet through which fluid is provided to a fluid inlet in one process housing. 20. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein each process housing includes an upper fluid inlet in communication with the fluid supply system for directing fluid onto an upper surface of the workpiece disposed therein, and a lower fluid inlet in communication with the fluid supply system for directing fluid onto a lower surface of the workpiece disposed therein. 21. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the fluid supply system is adapted to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid into each of the process chambers. 