A lightweight windshield wiper installation system is provided wherein the system includes a re-usable mounting device in combination with a lightweight windshield wiper assembly which does not require a connecting member. The mounting device includes a mounting arm having a first end and a second end, a first retaining means, a second retaining means. The lightweight windshield wiper installation system may further include an arm linkage, and a release handle. The mounting arm is operative to position a lightweight windshield wiper system onto a vehicle which is removably attached to the mounting arm via the first retaining means and the second retaining means. The release handle cooperates with the first retaining means and the second retaining means via an arm linkage to hold and release the lightweight windshield wiper system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mounting device for installing a lightweight windshield wiper system not requiring a connecting member and having a first pivot joint and a second pivot joint, the mounting device comprising: a mounting arm having a first end and a second end, the mounting arm being operative to position a lightweight windshield wiper system onto a vehicle; a first retaining means disposed on the first end of the mounting arm, the first retaining means being adapted to hold and release a first pivot joint of the windshield wiper system; and a second retaining means disposed on the second end of the mounting arm, the second retaining means being adapted to hold and release a second pivot joint of the windshield wiper system, wherein the mounting arm positions the first and second pivot joints on the vehicle and the first and second retaining means release the first and second pivot joints. 2. The mounting device defined in claim 1 further comprising: a release handle disposed on the mounting arm; and a linkage connecting the release handle to the first retaining means and the second retaining means, whereby the release handle cooperates with the first retaining means and the second retaining means via the linkage to hold and to release the lightweight windshield wiper system. 3. The mounting device defined in claim 1 wherein the first retaining means is a first bracket adapted to rotate toward and away from the first pivot shaft. 4. The mounting device defined in claim 1 wherein the second retaining means is a second bracket adapted to rotate toward and away from the second pivot shaft. 5. The mounting device defined in claim 2 wherein the linkage is disposed within the mounting arm. 