An articulated tracked vehicle that has a main section, which includes a main frame, and a forward section. The main frame has two sides and a front end, and includes a pair of parallel main tracks. Each main track includes a flexible continuous belt coupled to a corresponding side of the main frame. The forward section includes an elongated arm. One end of the arm is pivotally coupled to the main frame near the forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis that is generally perpendicular to the sides of the main frame. The arm has a length sufficiently long to allow the forward section to extend below the main section in at least some degrees of rotation of the arm, and a length shorter than the length of the main section. The center of mass of the main section is located forward of the rearmost point reached by the end of the arm in its pivoting about the transverse axis. The main section is contained within the volume defined by the main tracks and is symmetrical about a horizontal plane, thereby allowing inverted operation of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An impact resistance tracked vehicle comprising: a main frame; a pair of parallel main tracks, each of the parallel main tracks including a flexible continuous belt; side plates, each of the side plates being associated with a corresponding one of the parallel main tracks; and on each side of the main frame, two compliant pulleys coupled between one of the parallel main tracks and the main frame, and a plurality of compliant track supports coupled between the parallel main tracks and the side plates, the plurality of compliant track supports extending along top and bottom surfaces of the parallel main tracks; wherein each compliant pulley includes a compliant outer rim, a hub, and a plurality of compliant spoke segments coupled between the rim and the hub. 2. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the plurality of compliant track supports comprise longitudinal track supports that are coupled between the main frame and the continuous belts, each longitudinal track support having a series of open slots forming a series of rib sections between the upper and lower edges of the longitudinal track support. 3. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the pulleys and main frame are recessed within volumes defined by the parallel main tracks. 4. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the parallel main tracks each includes a series of compliant cleats attached transversely on an outside of the flexible continuous belt. 5. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the parallel main tracks each include a longitudinal rib coupled to an inside surface of the flexible continuous belt, and each of the compliant pulleys includes a channel around its circumference which accepts the longitudinal rib, the channels being dimensioned larger than the rib thereby allowing debris to be caught between a compliant pulley and a track without dislodging the track from the compliant pulley. 6. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the main frame, the parallel main tracks, the side plates, the compliant pulleys, and the compliant track supports comprise a main section of the vehicle; and the vehicle further comprises: a forward section, the forward section comprising an elongated arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being pivotally coupled to the main frame near a forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis generally perpendicular to sides of the main frame, the arm having a length sufficiently long to allow the forward section to extend below the main section in at least some degree of rotation of the arm, and a length shorter than a length of the main section; wherein a center of mass of the main section is located forward of a rearmost point reached by the distal end of the arm when pivoting about the transverse axis. 7. The vehicle of claim 6, wherein the main section is contained within a volume defined by the parallel main tracks and is symmetrical about a horizontal plane. 8. The vehicle of claim 6, wherein the forward section includes a second arm such that the forward section comprises two arms, the second arm being pivotally coupled to the main frame near a forward end of the main frame. 9. The vehicle of claim 8, further comprising an articulator motor; wherein the two arms of the forward section are rigidly coupled and are rotated together by the articulator motor, the articulator motor providing sufficient torque between the main frame and the two arms to raise a rear end of the main section thereby supporting the vehicle on the forward section. 10. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein continuous rotation of the two arms provides forward locomotion of the vehicle. 11. The vehicle of claim 9, further comprising a harmonic drive coupled between the articulator motor and the two aims, the harmonic drive providing a torque to the two arms that is greater than the torque provided by the articulator motor. 12. The vehicle of claim 9, further comprising a clutch coupled between the articulator motor and the two arms; wherein the clutch allows rotation of the arms without rotation of the motor if the torque between the arms and the main section exceeds a predetermined limit. 13. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the two arms are coupled to the main frame outside of the main tracks. 14. The vehicle of claim 13, wherein the forward section includes a pair of flexible forward tracks, one of the flexible forward tracks being coupled to each of the two arms. 15. The vehicle of claim 6, wherein the main section includes a pair of drive motors, each of the drive motors being coupled to main and forward drive pulleys on a corresponding side of the vehicle. 16. A vehicle comprising: a main frame; a main track having a flexible continuous belt; a side plate associated with the main track; a compliant pulley coupled between the main track and the main frame, the compliant pulley driving the main track to move the vehicle; compliant track supports coupled between the main track and the side plate, the compliant track supports extending along top and bottom surfaces of the main track; and an elongated arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being pivotally coupled to the main frame near a forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis generally perpendicular to sides of the main frame. 17. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the compliant and main frame are recessed within a volume defined by the main track. 18. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the main track includes a series of compliant cleats attached transversely on an the outside of the flexible continuous belt. 19. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the main track includes a longitudinal rib coupled to an the inside surface of the flexible continuous belt, and the compliant pulley includes a channel around its circumference which accepts the longitudinal rib, the channel being dimensioned larger than the rib thereby allowing debris to be caught between the compliant pulley and a track without dislodging the track from the compliant pulley. 20. An apparatus comprising: a pair of continuous tracks; compliant pulleys, one of the compliant pulleys being disposed within each of the continuous tracks, wherein rotational movement of a compliant pulley causes corresponding movement of a continuous track around the compliant pulley; and compliant tracks supports that provide support for the continuous track, the compliant supports comprising a series of ribs, each of the ribs being angled relative to the pair of continuous tracks. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising: a main frame; and an elongated arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being pivotally coupled to the main frame near a forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis generally perpendicular to sides of the main frame. 