A system for leak testing industrial components, such as engine blocks, is disclosed and includes a conveyor system for transporting the engine components to and from a test area having a support surface. A robot is operable in the test area and includes a manipulator which engages and moves the industrial components. At least two leak test units are provided where each leak test unit includes a shuttle for receiving the industrial component from the robot and thereafter subjecting that industrial component to a leak test. Each leak test unit then generates a failure output signal in response to a failed leak test on the industrial component. Each leak test unit is movably mounted to the test area support surface between an operable position and an inoperable position. In its operable position the leak test unit is positioned in the test area to receive the industrial components from the robot and perform the leak test. Conversely, in its retracted position, the leak test unit is positioned outside of the test area for maintenance, repair or the like. A robot control circuit controls the movement of the industrial components by the robot between the conveyor system and one or more of the selected leak test units in response to at least one control factor, such as a failure output from one of the leak test units.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for leak testing industrial components comprising: a conveyor system for transporting the industrial components to and from a test area having a support surface, a robot operable in said test area, said robot having a manipulator which engages and moves the industrial components, at least two leak test units, each leak test unit having means for receiving the industrial component from said robot, means at said leak unit for thereafter subjecting said industrial component to a leak test, each leak test unit generating a failure output signal in response to a failed leak test on the industrial component, means for movably mounting each of said leak test units to said test area support surface between an operable position in which each said leak test unit is positioned in said test area to receive the industrial components from said robot, and an inoperable position in which the leak test unit is positioned outside of said test area, a robot control means for controlling the movement of the industrial components by said robot between said conveyor system and one or more selected leak test units in response to at least one control factor, said at least one control factor including said failure output signal wherein said robot control means controls the movement of the robot to transfer the industrial component from one leak test unit to another leak test unit in response to a failure output signal received by said robot control means from said one leak test unit following a leak test on the industrial component. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said at least one control factor comprises the position of each leak test unit and means for transmitting the position of each leak test unit as an input signal to said robot control means. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said mounting means comprises an elongated track assembly associated with each leak test unit and mounted to said test area support surface, and a track follower mounted to leak test unit, each said track follower cooperating with its associated track assembly to enable movement of each said leak test unit along said track assembly. 4. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising means for selectively locking each of said leak test units in their respective operable positions. 5. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein each said locking means comprises a pin vertically slidably mounted to each said leak test unit and movable between an upper unlocked position and a lower locked position, a pin retainer secured to said test area support surface at a preset position with respect to each track assembly, said pin cooperating with said pin retainer when said pin is in said locked position to preclude movement of each said leak test unit relative to its associated track assembly. 6. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said convey system comprises a first conveyor line for transporting industrial components to be tested to said test area, a second conveyor line for transporting industrial components that have passed the leak test performed by one or more leak test units from said test area and a third conveyor line for transporting industrial components that have failed the leak test performed by one or more leak test units from said test area. 7. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said at least one control factor further comprises the type of the industrial component, and means for providing an input signal to said robot control means indicative of the type of industrial component. 8. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said robot control means comprises a microprocessor based control circuit. 9. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein each leak test unit is independently operable and independently powered with respect to the other leak test unit(s). 10. A system for leak testing industrial components comprising: a conveyor system for transporting the industrial components to and from a test area having a support surface, a robot operable in said test area, said robot having a manipulator which engages and moves the industrial components, at least two leak test units, each leak test unit having means for receiving the industrial component from said robot, means at said leak unit for thereafter subjecting said industrial component to a leak test, each leak test unit generating a failure output signal in response to a failed leak test on the industrial component, means for movably mounting each of said leak test units to said test area support surface between a operable position in which each said leak test unit is positioned in said test area to receive the industrial components from said robot, and an inoperable position in which the leak test unit is positioned outside of said test area, a robot control means for controlling the movement of the industrial components by said robot between said conveyor system and one or more selected leak test units in response to at least one control factor, said at least one control factor including said failure output signal, wherein said at least one control factor comprises the position of each leak test unit and means for transmitting the position of each leak test unit as an input signal to said robot control means. 11. The invention as defined in claim 10 and further comprising a control circuit associated with each leak test unit, each said control circuit generating a position signal indicative of the position of its associated leak test unit, said position signal being connected as input signal to said robot control means. 12. A system for leak testing industrial components comprising: a conveyor system for transporting the industrial components to and from a test area having a support surface, a robot operable in said test area, said robot having a manipulator which engages and moves the industrial components, at least two leak test units, each leak test unit having means for receiving the industrial component from said robot, means at said leak unit for thereafter subjecting said industrial component to a leak test, each leak test unit generating a failure output signal in response to a failed leak test on the industrial component, means for movably mounting each of said leak test units to said test area support surface between an operable position in which each said leak test unit is positioned in said test area to receive the industrial components from said robot, and an inoperable position in which the leak test is positioned outside of said test area, a robot control means for controlling the movement of the industrial components by said robot between said conveyor system and one or more selected leak test units in response to at least one control factor, said at least one control factor including said failure output signal, wherein said mounting means comprises an elongated track assembly associated with each leak test unit and mounted to said test area support surface, and a track follower mounted to leak test unit, each said track follower cooperating with its associated track assembly to enable movement of each said leak test unit along said track assembly. 13. The invention as defined in claim 12 herein said robot is mounted within said test area on said test area support surface and wherein an axis of each track assembly extends in radial direction with respect to said robot. 14. The invention as defined in claim 12 wherein each track assembly comprises a pair of spaced apart and parallel tracks and wherein each track follower comprises a plurality of wheels which engage said tracks. 15. A system for leak testing industrial components comprising: a conveyor system for transporting the industrial components to and from a test area having a support surface, a robot operable in said test area, said robot having a manipulator which engages and moves the industrial components, at least two leak test units, each leak test unit having means for receiving the industrial component from said robot, means at said leak unit for thereafter subjecting said industrial component to a leak test, each leak test unit generating a failure output signal in response to a failed leak test on the industrial component, means for movably mounting each of said leak test units to said test area support surface between an operable position in which each said leak test unit is positioned in said test area to receive the industrial components from said robot, and an inoperable position in which the leak test unit is positioned outside of said test area, a robot control means for controlling the movement of the industrial components by said robot between said conveyor system and one or more selected leak test units in response to at least one control factor, said at least one control factor including said failure output signal, means for selectively locking each of said leak test units in their respective operable positions. 16. A system for leak testing industrial components comprising: a conveyor system for transporting the industrial components to and from a test area having a support surface, a robot operable in said test area, said robot having a manipulator which engages and moves the industrial components, at least two leak test units, each leak test unit having means for receiving the industrial component from said robot, means at said leak unit for thereafter subjecting said industrial component to a leak test, each leak test unit generating a failure output signal in response to a failed leak test on the industrial component, means for movably mounting each of said leak test units to said test area support surface between an operable position in which each said leak test unit is positioned in said test area to receive the industrial components from said robot, and an inoperable position in which the leak test unit is positioned outside of said test area, a robot control means for controlling the movement of the industrial components by said robot between said conveyor system and one or more selected leak test units in response to at least one control factor, said at least one control factor including said failure output signal, wherein each leak test unit is independently operable and independently powered with respect to the other leak test unit(s). 