A robotic machine such as a robotic vacuum cleaner is controlled to carry out a task of cleaning a room. The machine has a plurality of sensors including infrared sensors, ultrasonic sensors and light sensors through which the machine can navigate its way around a room without hitting objects or walls in its path. The machine has an indicator light which changes color depending upon the state of interaction of the various sensors with the environment, indicating the `mood` of the cleaner. The indicator may include three primary color light sources which are combined within a reflective frusto-conical chamber and a translucent lens dome in order to combine the primary colors into a single colored light as viewed by a user. This makes the machine more user-friendly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic machine comprising a plurality of sensors by which the robotic machine can interact with its environment, a controller for controlling the machine to carry out a task using the sensors, and an indicator light to indicate a state of interaction between the machine and the environment, wherein the controller is configured to change a color of the light according to the state of interaction and wherein the indicator light comprises two or more differently colored light sources which are separately energizable and a device for combining light output by the light sources to give an effect of a single colored light. 2. A machine according to claim 1, wherein the light sources are energizable at the same time. 3. A machine according to claim 2, wherein the light sources are red, green and blue. 4. A machine according to claim 1, 2 or 3, comprising a plurality of light sources of each color. 5. A machine according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the power of each light source is separately controllable. 6. A machine according to claim 5, wherein the power of each light is controllable by a pulse width modulator in response to a control signal indicative of the required power. 7. A machine according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the combining device comprises a light diffuser. 8. A machine according to claim 7, wherein the light diffuser is a translucent lens. 9. A machine according to claim 8, wherein the light sources are grouped beneath a tapering chamber. 10. A machine according to claim 9, wherein the chamber tapers inwardly from the light sources. 11. A machine according to claim 9, wherein the chamber has a reflective coating. 12. A machine according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein a software architecture is used to input the state of the machine to a processing mechanism which determines the energization of the light sources. 13. A machine according to claim 4, wherein the power of each light source is separately controllable. 14. A machine according to claim 4, wherein the power of each light is controllable by a pulse width modulator in response to a control signal indicative of the required power. 15. A machine according to claim 4, wherein the combining means comprises a light diffuser. 16. A machine according to claim 15, wherein the light diffuser is a translucent lens. 17. A machine according to claim 5, wherein the combining means comprises a light diffuser. 18. A machine according to claim 17, wherein the light diffuser is a translucent lens. 19. A machine according to claim 10, wherein the chamber has a reflective coating. 20. A machine according to claim 4, wherein a software architecture is used to input the state of the machine to a processing mechanism which determines the energization of the light sources. 21. A machine according to claim 5, wherein a software architecture is used to input the state of the machine to a processing mechanism which determines the energization of the light sources. 22. A machine according to claim 6, wherein a software architecture is used to input the state of the machine to a processing mechanism which determines the energization of the light sources. 23. A machine according to claim 9, wherein a software architecture is used to input the state of the machine to a processing mechanism which determines the energization of the light sources. 24. A machine according to claim 12, wherein a software architecture is used to input the state of the machine to a processing mechanism which determines the energization of the light sources. 25. A method of operating a robotic machine, comprising: providing a controller, a plurality of sensors by means of which the robotic machine can interact with its environment, and an indicator light comprising two or more differently colored light sources which are separately energizable and a device for combining the light output of the light sources to give an effect of a single colored light, using the controller to control the machine to carry out a task using the sensors, using the indicator to indicate a state of interaction between the machine and the environment, and changing the color of the indicator light according to the state of interaction between the machine and the environment. 26. A robotic floor cleaning device comprising a robotic machine comprising a plurality of sensors configured to interact with a floor to be cleaned, a controller for controlling the machine to carry out floor cleaning using the sensors, and an indicator light to indicate a state of interaction between the machine and the floor to be cleaned, wherein the controller is configured to change a color of the light according to the state of interaction and wherein the indicator light comprises two or more differently colored light sources which are separately energizable and a device for combining light output by the light sources to give an effect of a single colored light. 27. A robotic floor cleaning device according to claim 26, wherein the light sources are energizable at the same time. 28. A robotic floor cleaning device according to claim 27, wherein the light sources are red, green and blue. 