A method and laboratory system for handling sample tube racks are disclosed. The laboratory system includes a storage section (14) with a plurality of shelves (110) for storing a plurality of storage racks (SR), a disposal unit (18) for disposing sample tubes from the storage racks (SR), a robotic transfer system (510) for loading storage racks (SR) into the storage section (14), for retrieving storage racks (SR) from the storing section (14) and for bringing storage rack to the disposal unit (18) after a given storage time has elapsed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laboratory system to handle laboratory sample tube racks, comprising: a storage section (14) with a plurality of shelves (110) for storing a plurality of sample tube racks, wherein the storage section further comprises: a) a disposal unit (18) for disposing sample tubes from the sample tube racks; and b) a robotic transfer system (510) configured for loading the sample tube racks into the storage section (14), for retrieving the sample tube racks from the storing section (14) and for bringing a sample tube rack to the disposal unit (18) after a given storage time of the sample tube rack has elapsed. 2. The laboratory system of claim 1, wherein the robotic transfer system (510) comprises a coupling element (526) for coupling with a sample tube rack to be conveyed, the coupling element (526) transferring push/pull forces on the sample tube rack when coupled thereto, and a platform (518) for carrying the sample tube rack to be conveyed, wherein the platform (518) is connected with a height adjustment device, the height adjustment device lowering the platform (518) with regard to shelf level in case a sample tube rack is pulled onto the platform (518), and the height adjustment device raising the platform (518) with regard to shelf level in case a sample tube rack is pushed from the platform (518). 3. The laboratory system of claim 2, wherein the coupling element (526) is an L-shaped hook for engagement with a corresponding opening (94) of a sample tube rack. 4. The laboratory system of claim 1 wherein the storage section comprises one or more shelves, and wherein each shelf (110) of the one or more shelves comprises a plurality of T-pins (112) which are aligned on the shelves (110) so as to form a receiving compartment for a sample tube rack and provide a proper guiding of the sample tube rack when slid onto the shelf (110). 5. The laboratory system of claim 4, wherein the shelves further comprise a plurality of elevated retaining elements (114) for retaining a fully inserted sample tube rack in its storage position. 6. The laboratory system of claim 1, wherein the disposal unit (18) comprises a tilt module (620) and a waste container (640, 642), the tilt module having a rack park position (622) positioned above the waste container (640, 642), the tilt module (620) being designed to tilt a sample tube rack loaded by the robotic transfer system (510) into the rack park position (622) over such that sample tubes (S) contained in the sample tube rack fall or slide into the waste container (640, 642) below. 7. The laboratory system of claim 6, wherein the rack park position (622) comprises guide elements with a T- or L-shaped cross-section for holding the storage rack (SR) in position when the storage rack (SR) is tilted over in the tilt module (620). 8. The laboratory system of claim 6, further comprising a deflector (650) wherein the deflector is positioned between the tilt module (620) and the waste container (640, 642) and guides falling sample tubes (S) into the waste container (640, 642). 9. The laboratory system of claim 1, further comprising a self-teaching system which enables the robotic transfer system (510) to gauge itself, the self-teaching system comprising markings at defined positions along the shelves (110). 10. The laboratory system of claim 1, wherein the robotic transfer system (110) further comprises a sensor (528) for sensing the presence and/or the height of sample tubes (S) in a storage rack (SR). 11. A method of operating a storage section (14) of a laboratory system, the storage section (14) comprising (a) a plurality of shelves (110) for storing a plurality of sample tube racks-, the shelves including a top shelf and a bottom shelf, the top and bottom shelves having a first end and an opposite second end and (b) a robotic transfer system (510) for loading sample tube racks into the storage section (14) through a gate and retrieving sample tube racks from the storing section (14), comprising the following steps: the robotic transfer system (510) moving to one of the top shelf or the bottom shelf; the robotic transfer system (510) moving to the first end of the top or bottom shelf and identifying, by means of a sensor, a first marking defining a first storage rack end position; the robotic transfer system (510) moving along the top or bottom shelf towards the opposite second end and identifying a second marking defining a second storage rack end position and measuring, by means of a sensor, the distance between the first and second storage rack end positions; the robotic transfer system (510) moving vertically to the respective other one of the top shelf or the bottom shelf until it identifies a third marking defining a third storage rack end position and measuring, by means of a sensor, the distance between the second and third storage rack end positions; the robotic transfer system (510) moving along the other one of the top shelf or the bottom shelf towards an opposing shelf end from the third storage rack end position and identifying a fourth marking defining a fourth storage rack end position and measuring, by means of a sensor, the distance between the third and fourth storage rack end positions; calculating, in a CPU of the robotic transfer system (510), the distances between individual storage positions by dividing the measured distance between horizontal storage rack end positions by the number of storage rack positions and by dividing the distance between vertical storage rack end positions by the number of shelves; and storing the absolute coordinates of the four storage rack end positions. 12. A method to handle laboratory sample tube racks in a laboratory system comprising a storage section (14) having a plurality of shelves (110) for storing a plurality of sample tube racks, a disposal unit (18) and a robotic transfer system (510), the method comprising the steps of a) loading sample tube racks into the storage section (14) through a gate by means of the robotic transfer system (510); b) retrieving upon need a sample tube rack from the storing section (14) through a gate by means of the robotic transfer system (510); c) bringing a sample tube rack into the disposal unit (18) by means of the robotic transfer system (510) after a given storage time for the said sample tube rack has elapsed; and d) disposing sample tubes through the disposal unit (18). 13. The method according to claim 12 further comprising the steps of: e) sensing by means of a sensor (528) whether sample tubes (S) have remained in the sample tube rack after disposing step (d) and in the affirmative, f) transporting the sample tube rack to a park position and/or resorting the remained sample tubes (S) to a sample tube storage rack and repeating steps c) and d). 