Real time kinematic (RTK) global positioning system (GPS) technology is integrated with precision farming methodologies to provide highly accurate seeding, cultivating, planting and/or harvesting operations. RTK GPS systems are used to control fully or semi-autonomous vehicles in these operations and may allow for precision planting of seeds (e.g., from a seeder equipped with an RTK GPS receiver and related equipment) and/or precision weed removal (e.g., using a vehicle fitted with weed eradication mechanisms such as augers and/or herbicide sprayers). Crop specific fertilizer/pesticide application is also enabled through the use of centimeter-level accurate positioning techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of seeding, comprising: computing a seeding pattern for at least a portion of a plot of land from one or more data values retrieved from a computer readable storage medium, wherein said seeding pattern is updated for each of a number of planting periods according to a micro crop rotation scheme; controlling a vehicle so as to follow said computed seeding pattern over said plot of land using positioning information provided by one or more sources of GPS information; and planting seeds in desired locations within the plot of land by comparing a vehicle position determined using the positioning information to the seeding pattern. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said positioning information is provided by one or more GPS satellites. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein said positioning information is provided by one or more pseudolites. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein said positioning information is provided by a GPS receiver housed within said vehicle. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein said positioning information is provided by a GPS receiver located remote from said vehicle. 6. A method of seeding as in claim 1 further comprising computing an updated seeding pattern in response to seeding correction inputs, said updated seeding pattern being derived from said positioning information. 7. A method, comprising recording, using positioning information provided by a global positioning system (GPS) receiver, locations of one or more seeds planted in a field, in response to a seeding pattern that is updated for each of a number of planting periods according to a micro crop rotation scheme and an indication that a seeding machine has reached a desired planting location. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the GPS receiver is a real time kinematic (RTK) GPS receiver. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the location of the one or more seeds is recorded in a geographical information system (GIS) as one or more of (i) a digital base map, (ii) a digital map overlay, (iii) a data structure, (iv) geocoded data. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the location of the one or more seeds is recorded with reference to preexisting data in a geographical information system (GIS). 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the preexisting data comprises at least one of (i) a soil map, (ii) a map having ownership features, (iii) a map having road information, (iv) a map having natural or man-made waterway information, (v) a map having irrigation information, (vi) a map having elevation information, (vii) one or more maps produced by prior seeding operations, (viii) combinations of any or all of the foregoing. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the location of the one or more seeds is recorded at a recording facility remote from the GPS receiver. 13. The method of claim 7 further comprising performing one or more farming operations utilizing the recorded positions of the one or more seeds planted in the field. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the one or more farming operations include one or more of (i) cultivating; (ii) spraying herbicides, pesticides and/or fertilizers; (iii) harvesting. 15. The method of claim 7 wherein the desired planting location is determined with reference to a geographic information system (GIS). 16. The method of claim 15 the desired planting location is determined by comparing the seeding machine's current location as provided by the GPS receiver with position information provided by the GIS. 17. A seeding machine, comprising: a global positioning system (GPS) receiver; a monitoring apparatus coupled to receive position information from the GPS receiver and configured to record instances of said position information as seeds are planted; and a control system configured to initiate a seed planting command to said seeding machine in response to a seeding pattern that is updated for each of a number of planting periods according to a micro crop rotation scheme and an indication that the seeding machine is in a desired planting location. 18. The seeding machine of claim 17 wherein the GPS receiver comprises a real time kinematic GPS receiver. 19. The seeding machine of claim 17 wherein the monitoring apparatus comprises a geographic information system (GIS) database in which the instances of said position information are recorded. 20. The seeding machine of claim 19 wherein the instances of said position information are recorded in the GIS as one or more of (i) a digital base map, (ii) a digital map overlay, (iii) a data structure, (iv) geocoded data. 21. The seeding machine of claim 17 wherein the instances of said position information are recorded with reference to preexisting data in a geographical information system (GIS). 22. The seeding machine of claim 21 the preexisting data comprises at least one of (i) a soil map, (ii) a map having ownership features, (iii) a map having road information, (iv) a map having natural or man-made waterway information, (v) a map having irrigation information, (vi) a map having elevation information, (vii) one or more maps produced by prior seeding operations, (viii) combinations of any or all of the foregoing. 23. The seeding machine of claim 17 wherein the instances of said position information are transmitted to a recording facility remote from the GPS receiver. 24. The seeding machine of claim 17 wherein the desired planting location is determined by comparing a current position of the seeding machine as determined by the GPS receiver with planting information from a geographic information system (GIS). 25. The seeding machine of claim 24 wherein the GIS comprises a look-up table. 