A method and apparatus for assessing standing tree stems for readiness for harvesting, or for determining cutting points for processing of felled tree stems, logs, or wood pieces, or for assessing stems, logs, or wood pieces for a particular end use, includes scanning with short-wave or microwave electromagnetic energy and processing the scan data to produce an image indicating the external shape or dimensions of the stem or log and hidden internal characteristics and their position, and assessing the image. Knots and/or whorls, which are not visible from the exterior and the depth of the clear wood sheath from the surface, may be determined.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assessing standing tree stems, or for determining cutting points for processing of felled tree stems, logs, or wood pieces, or for assessing stems, logs, or wood pieces for end use, comprising scanning a stem, log or piece with shortwave or microwave electromagnetic energy, detecting the energy reflected from the wood, processing the resulting scan data to produce an image indicating hidden internal characteristics and their position within the stem, log, or piece, and assessing the image together with information as to the external shape or dimensions of the stem, log, or piece and identifying cutting points for the stem, log, or piece or allocating the stem, log, or piece or part of parts thereof to an end use. 2. A method according to claim 1 including obtaining information as to the external shape and dimensions of the stem, log, or piece and the depth of detected internal characteristics from the scan data. 3. A method according to claim 1 including scanning the stem, log, or piece, detecting the reflected energy, and processing the resulting scan data to produce an image indicating knots and/or whorls and their position, which are not visible from the exterior of the stem, log, or piece. 4. A method according to claim 3 also including producing an image indicating any one or more of a resin pocket, an internal check, one or more annual growth rings, one or more areas of early wood relative to late wood or vice versa and or more areas of sapwood relative to heartwood or vice versa, and the position of said internal characteristic(s). 5. A method according to claim 1 including determining the depth of the clearwood sheath from the surface of the stem, log, or piece. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic energy is radar frequency energy. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic energy is microwave frequency energy. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic energy has a frequency in the range of 0.5 to 20 GHz. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic energy has a frequency in the range of 5 to 10 GHz. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic energy has a frequency of about 8 GHz. 11. A method according to claim 1 including scanning the stem, log, or wood piece from more than one direction, detecting the energy reflected from the wood in each direction, and processing the scan data from each direction to produce the image of the stem, log, or wood piece. 12. A method according to claim 11 including carrying out said scanning in different directions via send and receive antennae positioned around the longitudinal axis of the stem, log, or wood piece. 13. A method according to claim 11 including carrying out said scanning in each direction simultaneously. 14. A method according to claim 1 wherein said scanning is carried out by moving a scanning device over the stem of a standing tree. 15. A method according to claim 1 wherein said scanning is carried out by moving a felled stem, or a log or wood piece on a conveyor past a scanning station including send and receive antennae. 16. A method as claimed in claim 1 including subsequently directing the stem, log, or wood piece to the production of solid wood or veneer or to pulp and paper production, based on assessment of said image of the stem, log, or wood piece. 17. Apparatus for assessing standing tree stems, or for determining cutting points for processing of felled tree stems, logs or other wood pieces, or for assessing stems, logs, or wood pieces for end use, comprising scanning means arranged to scan the stems, logs, or pieces with shortwave or microwave electromagnetic energy and to detect the energy reflected from the wood, associated computer processing means arranged to process the resulting scan data as to internal characteristics of the stem, log, or piece together with information as to the external shape or dimensions of the stem, log, or piece and produce an image of both the external shape and indicating hidden internal characteristics and their position, and the depth of clearwood, for each stem, log, or piece. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said computer processing means is arranged to process the resulting scan data to obtain information as to the external shape and dimensions of the stem, log, or piece and the depth within the wood of detected internal characteristics from the scan data. 19. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the computer processing means is arranged to process the resulting scan data to produce an image indicating knots and/or whorls and their position, which are not visible from the exterior of the stem, log, or piece. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the computer processing means is arranged to process the scan data to produce an image indicating any one or more of a resin pocket, an internal check, one or more annual growth rings, one or more areas of sapwood relative to heartwood or vice versa, one or more areas of early wood relative to late wood or vice versa, and the position of said internal characteristic(s). 21. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the computer processing means is arranged to determine the depth of the clearwood sheath from the surface of the stem, log, or wood piece. 22. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the electromagnetic energy is radar frequency energy. 23. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the electromagnetic energy is microwave frequency energy. 24. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the electromagnetic energy has a frequency in the range 0.5 to 20 GHz. 25. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the electromagnetic energy has a frequency in the rage of 5 to 10 GHz. 26. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the electromagnetic energy has a frequency of about 8 GHz. 27. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said scanning means is configured to scan the stems, logs, or wood pieces from more than one direction, detect the energy reflected from the wood in each direction, and the computer processing means is arranged to process the scan data from each direction to produce the image of each stem, log, or wood piece. 28. Apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the scanning means comprises send and receive antennae positioned around the longitudinal axis of the stem, log, or wood piece. 29. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said scanning means is adapted to be moved over the stem of a standing tree. 30. Apparatus according to claim 17 including associated computer processing means arranged to assess the images of each stem, log, or piece and allocate the stem, log, or piece to the production of solid wood or veneer or to pulp and paper production. 