A system for applying a thin coat of a material on one side only of a substrate is disclosed together with a process for applying the thin coat. Coatings of less than one thousand angstroms are attainable on a single surface of the substrate by controlling the speed at which a meniscus of a mix containing a predetermined concentration of the to coating material travels across the single surface being coated. Various pressure, temperature and humidity controls are implemented in the process and by the apparatus as needed to obtain the desired coating characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of applying a coating of a substance onto an article, wherein the article includes a coating-only surface on which the substance is to be coated and one or more other surfaces on which the substance is not to be coated comprising the steps of: providing a predetermined concentration of the substance in a solvent mix; placing an amount of the solvent mix in a container so that the solvent mix has a coating contact surface, wherein the coating contact surface comprises a substantially undisturbed free surface and is accessible for contact by the coating-only surface; positioning the coating-only surface in contact with and at a predetermined angle to the coating contact surface, so that a single meniscus is formed in the solvent mix extending between the coating contact surface and the coating-only surface; and separating the coating-only surface and the solvent mix at a separation rate so that the single meniscus traverses the coating-only surface at a rate related to a solvent evaporation rate. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of enclosing the solvent mix and the article, and controlling ambient conditions within the enclosure. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of controlling ambient temperature. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of controlling ambient pressure. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of controlling ambient humidity. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of controlling the content of the ambient atmosphere. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of controlling the temperature of the solvent mix. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of controlling the temperature of the article. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the meniscus has a wet side adjacent the coating contact surface and a drying side adjacent the coating-only surface, a wetted dimension on the coating-only surface trailing the drying side, and wherein the step of separating comprises the step of imposing a separation rate so that the wetted dimension is substantially constant. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the meniscus has a wet side adjacent the coating contact surface and a drying side adjacent the coating-only surface, a wetted dimension on the coating-only surface trailing the drying side, and wherein the step of separating comprises the step of imposing a separation rate so that the wetted dimension is substantially zero. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the meniscus has a wet side adjacent the coating contact surface and a drying side adjacent the coating-only surface, a wetted dimension on the coating-only surface trailing the drying side, and wherein the step of separating comprises the step of imposing a separation rate so that the wetted dimension undergoes a predetermined change, wherein a predetermined variation in the thickness of the coating is obtained. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the rate of separation produces a wetting dimension about the meniscus that is substantially constant. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the substance comprises a lubricant. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the substance comprises a protective or decorative coating. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the substance comprises an optical coating. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating has a thickness below about 10-20 Angstroms. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating has a thickness below about 100 Angstroms. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the article comprises a hard disc, a semiconductor device, a circuit board, a display panel or an optical component. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the article comprises an optical component consisting of a mirror, a lens, a grating or a filter. 