The automated library system contains multiple independent robots for concurrently manipulating multiple media cartridges. The library system comprises a two-dimensional array that contains media cartridge storage cells and media cartridge players. A system of rails is used to guide robotic pods through all of the locations in the array, which eliminates the need for any steering or guide mechanism on board the robotic pods, resulting in a reduction in the mass of the robotic pods. The rail system also constrains the movement of the robotic pods into horizontal and vertical movements, thereby simplifying the control algorithms for collision avoidance that are required by a typical random moveable object handling system based on horizontal, vertical and diagonal degrees of freedom. The robotic pods contain a moveable carriage that is capable of transporting robotic components, such as media cartridge pickers, bar code reading devices, and other task oriented sub-modules, in the storage library rail system.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, a guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of each of said rows, to support at least one robot, wherein each of said guide rails comprises at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive rollers of said at least one robot. 2. The media library system of claim 1, wherein said at least one robot comprises a plurality of robots, each operable to move on said rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media storage cells. 3. The media library system of claim 1, wherein said array further comprises: at least one media player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media, for reading/writing data on said media. 4. The media library system of claim 1, wherein each of said robots comprises: a media processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media processing mechanism and transporting said media processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media storage cells. 5. The media library system of claim 4, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive roller for propelling each of said robots along said rail mechanism; a drive motor mechanism to drive said at least one drive roller; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 6. The media library system of claim 5, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery that provides a source of power for said drive motor mechanism. 7. The media library system of claim 4, wherein said media processing mechanism comprises: a media picker, operable to remove a media from a selected one of said plurality of media storage cells. 8. The media library system of claim 4, wherein said media processing means comprises: a media scanner, operable to read media label data from a selected one of said plurality of media. 9. The media library system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport said at least one robot in a vertical direction from row to row. 10. The media library system of claim 9, wherein said at least one elevator mechanism comprises: a vertically oriented set of guide rails, located proximate an end of said set of guide rails; an elevator platform mechanism operable to move on said vertically oriented set of guide rails for receiving said at least one robot; and an elevator drive mechanism to transport said elevator platform mechanism in a vertical direction from a first of said rows to a second selected one of said rows. 11. The media library system of claim 10, wherein said elevator platform mechanism comprises: a horizontally oriented set of guide rail segments positioned to align with two adjacent ones of said set of rail guides that are located at a top and a bottom of said selected one of said rows. 12. The media library system of claim 1, wherein the rail mechanism is incrementally expandable to access additional media storage cells. 13. The media library system of claim 1, wherein the at least one robot is electrically coupled to the rail mechanism via brush type contacts. 14. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, a guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of each of said rows, to support at least one robot, wherein the at least one robot is transportable along the rail mechanism by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 15. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media using a plurality of robots, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, a guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of each of said rows, to support at least one robot, wherein at least one guide rail comprises a plurality of containment groves to simultaneously receive rollers from more than one of the plurality of robots. 16. The media library system of claim 15, wherein an upper robot is coupled to at least one of the plurality of containment grooves, and a lower robot is coupled to another of the plurality of containment grooves such that both the upper and lower robot can move along the at least one guide rail without interfering with one another. 17. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, a guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of each of said rows, to support at least one robot; and at least one elevator mechanism to transport said at least one robot in a vertical direction through said array. 18. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two columns, with said at least two columns being stacked in a horizontal direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, at least one guide rail arranged vertically along a side of each of said columns, to support at least one robot, wherein each of said guide rails comprises at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive rollers on said at least one robot. 19. The media library system of claim 18, wherein said at least one robot comprises a plurality of robots, each operable to move on said rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media storage cells. 20. The media library system of claim 18, wherein each of said robots comprises: a media processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media processing mechanism and transporting said medial processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media storage cells. 21. The media library system of claim 20, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive roller for propelling each of said robots along said rail mechanism; a cable gripper for selectively grabbing a cable that moves horizontally along a top of said at least two columns of media storage cells; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 22. The media library system of claim 21, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism further comprises: a vertical guide roller brake for controlling movement of said robotic mechanism in a vertical direction from row to row. 23. The media library system of claim 22, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery that provides a source of power for said cable gripper means. 24. The media library system of claim 20, wherein said media processing mechanism comprises: a media picker mechanism, operable to remove a media from a selected one of said plurality of media storage cells. 25. The media library system of claim 21, wherein said media processing mechanism comprises: a media scanner mechanism, operable to read media label data from a selected one of said plurality of media. 26. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media using a plurality of robots, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two columns, with said at least two columns being stacked in a horizontal direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, at least one guide rail arranged vertically along a side of each of said columns, to support at least one robot, wherein at least one guide rail comprises a plurality of containment groves to simultaneously receive rollers from more than one of the plurality of robots. 27. The media library system of claim 26, wherein an upper robot is coupled to at least one of the plurality of containment grooves, and a lower robot is coupled to another of the plurality of containment grooves such that both the upper and lower robot can move along the at least one guide rail without interfering with one another. 28. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media arranged in at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media, one guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of a corresponding one of said rows, to at least partially support at least one robot, and a second guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of another one of said rows to at least partially support another robot, wherein the second rail guide comprises a plurality of containment groves to receive rollers from the at least one robot and the another robot. 29. The media library system of claim 28, wherein both robot and the another robot can move along the second guide rail without interfering with one another. 30. The media library system of claim 28, wherein the at least one robot is transportable along the one guide rail by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 31. The media library system of claim 28, wherein said array further comprises: at least one media player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media, for reading/writing data on said media. 32. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media cells arranged in at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable robot access to each of said plurality of media cells, one guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of a corresponding one of said rows and another guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of another of said rows; and a first robot attached to the one guide rail and a second robot attached to the another guide rail, wherein the first robot is also attached to the another guide rail. 33. The media library system of claim 32, wherein the another rail guide comprises a plurality of containment groves to receive rollers from the first robot and the second robot. 34. The media library system of claim 33, wherein both the first robot and the second robot can move along the another rail guide without interfering with one another. 35. The media library system of claim 32, wherein the first robot is transportable along the one guide rail by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 36. The media library system of claim 32, wherein said array further comprises: at least one media player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media, for reading/writing data on said media. 37. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media arranged in at least two rows; a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media, one guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along a side of each of said rows; and a robot attached to (i) the guide rail associated with a first row of the at least two rows and (ii) the guide rail associated with a second row of the at least two rows adjacent the first row. 38. The media library system of claim 37, further comprising a second robot attached to the guide rail associated with the second row. 39. The media library system of claim 38, wherein the guide rail associated with the second row comprises a plurality of containment groves to simultaneously receive rollers from the robot and the second robot. 40. The media library system of claim 39, wherein both the robot and the second robot can move along the guide rail associated with the second row without interfering with one another. 41. The media library system of claim 37, wherein the robot is transportable along the guide rail associated with the first row by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 42. The media library system of claim 41, wherein the robot is transportable along the guide rail associated with the second row by a guide roller. 43. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media cells arranged in at least two rows; a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media cells, one guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along at least one side of a corresponding one of said rows, to support at least one robot, wherein the at least one robot comprises: a media processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media processing mechanism and transporting said media processing mechanism along a guide rail of the set of guide rails to a selected one of said media, wherein each of said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive roller for propelling said at least one robot and said second robot, respectively, along said shareable guide rail; a drive motor mechanism to drive said at least one drive roller; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 44. The media library system of claim 43, wherein said array further comprises: at least one media player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media, for reading/writing data on said media. 45. The media library system of claim 43, wherein said guide rail comprises: at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive rollers of said at least one robot. 46. The media library system of claim 43, further comprising a shareable guide rail located between two rows of the at least two rows, said shareable guide rail comprising a plurality of containment groves to receive rollers from said at least one robot and a second robot. 47. The media library system of claim 46, wherein the at least one robot is coupled to at least one of the plurality of containment grooves, and the second robot is coupled to another of the plurality of containment grooves such that both the robot and the second robot can move along the shareable guide rail without interfering with one another. 48. The media library system of claim 43, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery that provides a source of power for said drive motor mechanism. 49. The media library system of claim 43, wherein said media processing mechanism comprises: a media picker, operable to pick a media from a selected one of said plurality of media. 50. The media library system of claim 43, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transporting said at least one robot in a vertical direction through said array. 51. The media library system of claim 43, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport said at least one robot in a vertical direction from row to row. 52. The media library system of claim 51, wherein said at least one elevator mechanism comprises: a vertically oriented set of guide rails, located proximate an end of said set of guide rails; an elevator platform mechanism operable to move on said vertically oriented set of guide rails for receiving said at least one robot; and an elevator drive mechanism to transport said elevator platform mechanism in a vertical direction from a first of said rows to a second selected one of said rows. 53. The media library system of claim 52, wherein said elevator platform mechanism comprises: a horizontally oriented set of guide rail segments positioned to align with two adjacent ones of said set of rail guides that are located at a top and a bottom of said selected one of said rows. 54. The media library system of claim 43, wherein said at least one robot is transportable along the one guide rail by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 55. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media cells arranged in at least two rows; a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media cells, one guide rail of the set of guide rails arranged horizontally along at least one side of a corresponding one of said rows, to support at least one robot, wherein the at least one robot comprises: a media processing mechanism, comprising a media scanner, operable to read media label data from a selected one of said plurality of media; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media processing mechanism and transporting said media processing mechanism along a guide rail of the set of guide rails to a selected one of said media. 56. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media cells arranged in at least two rows; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media cells by a plurality of robots, said rail mechanism allowing a robot to access any of media cells in one of the at least two rows while simultaneously allowing another robot to access any of the media cells in another of the at least two rows, wherein at least one of the guide rails of the set of guide rails comprises at least one support structure to at least partially support said robot and said another robot. 57. The media library system of claim 56, wherein said array further comprises: at least one media player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media, for reading/writing data on said media. 58. The media library system of claim 56, wherein at least one of the guide rails of the set of guide rails comprises: a plurality of containment groves to simultaneously receive rollers from said robot and said another robot. 59. The media library system of claim 58, wherein the robot is coupled to at least one of the plurality of containment grooves, and the another robot is coupled to another of the plurality of containment grooves such that both the robot and the another robot can move along the shareable guide rail without interfering with one another. 60. The media library system of claim 56, wherein each of said robot and said another robot comprises: a media processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media processing mechanism and transporting said media processing mechanism along said rail mechanism to a selected one of said media. 61. The media library system of claim 60, wherein each of said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive roller for propelling said robot and said second robot, respectively, along said rail mechanism; a drive motor mechanism to drive said at least one drive roller; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 62. The media library system of claim 61, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery that provides a source of power for said drive motor mechanism. 63. The media library system of claim 60, wherein said media processing mechanism comprises: a media picker, operable to pick a media from a selected one of said plurality of media. 64. The media library system of claim 60, wherein said media processing means comprises: a media scanner, operable to read media label data from a selected one of said plurality of media. 65. The media library system of claim 56, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transporting said robot in a vertical direction through said array. 66. The media library system of claim 56, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport said robot in a vertical direction from row to row. 67. The media library system of claim 66, wherein said at least one elevator mechanism comprises: a vertically oriented set of guide rails, located proximate an end of said set of guide rails; an elevator platform mechanism operable to move on said vertically oriented set of guide rails for receiving said at least one robot; and an elevator drive mechanism to transport said elevator platform mechanism in a vertical direction from a first of said rows to a second selected one of said rows. 68. The media library system of claim 67, wherein said elevator platform mechanism comprises: a horizontally oriented set of guide rail segments positioned to align with two adjacent ones of said set of rail guides that are located at a top and a bottom of said selected one of said rows. 69. The media library system of claim 56, wherein the robot is transportable along the rail mechanism by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 70. A method for operating a media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, said media library system comprising a plurality of media arranged in at least two rows and a rail mechanism comprising guide rails that enable access to each of said plurality of media by at least one robot, comprising the steps of: moving the at least one robot along a first fixed rail portion of the guide rails to access media in one row of the at least two rows; moving the at least one robot from the first fixed rail portion to a moveable rail portion of the guide rails; moving the moveable rail portion to align with a second fixed rail portion of the guide rails; and moving the at least one robot from the moveable rail portion to the second fixed rail portion to access media in another row of the at least two rows. 71. A modular library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction, wherein the array comprises an inner array and an outer array, and the rail mechanism comprises inner array rail segments and outer array rail segments; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable robotic access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, the rail mechanism being incrementally expandable to access additional media storage cells. 72. The modular library system of claim 71, wherein at least one of the inner array rail segments is mechanically coupled to at least one of the outer array rail segments to allow at least one robot to travel between the inner and outer arrays. 73. The modular library system of claim 71, further comprising a plurality of robots, each operable to move on the rail mechanism independent of others of said plurality of robots, to access said plurality of media storage locations. 74. The modular library system of claim 73, wherein the plurality of robots are electrically coupled to the rail mechanism via brush type contacts. 75. The modular library system of claim 73, wherein said plurality of robots are transportable along the rail mechanism by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 76. A modular library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media storage cells arranged in at least two rows, with said at least two rows stacked in a vertical direction; and a rail mechanism comprising a set of guide rails that enable robotic access to each of said plurality of media storage cells, the rail mechanism being incrementally expandable to access additional media storage cells, wherein the rail mechanism comprises linear guide rails and curved guide rails. 77. A media library system for the storage and retrieval of a plurality of media, comprising: an array comprising a plurality of media arranged in a plurality of rows; and a shareable guide rail, positioned between two of the plurality of rows, that at least partially supports a robot accessing an upper row of the two rows and a second robot accessing a lower row of the two rows. 78. The media library system of claim 77, wherein said array further comprises: at least one media player, responsive to receipt of a one of said plurality of media, for reading/writing data on said media. 79. The media library system of claim 77, wherein said shareable guide rail comprises: at least one containment groove formed in a side of said guide rail to receive rollers of said robot and said second robot. 80. The media library system of claim 77, wherein said shareable guide rail comprises a plurality of containment groves to receive rollers from said robot and said second robot. 81. The media library system of claim 80, wherein the robot is coupled to at least one of the plurality of containment grooves, and the second robot is coupled to another of the plurality of containment grooves such that both the robot and the second robot can move along the shareable guide rail without interfering with one another. 82. The media library system of claim 81, wherein said media processing means comprises: a media scanner, operable to read media label data from a selected one of said plurality of media. 83. The media library system of claim 77, wherein each of said robot and said second robot comprise: a media processing mechanism; and a robotic pod base mechanism for supporting said media processing mechanism and transporting said media processing mechanism along said shareable guide rail to a selected one of said media. 84. The media library system of claim 83, wherein each of said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: at least one drive roller for propelling said robot and said second robot, respectively, along said shareable guide rail; a drive motor mechanism to drive said at least one drive roller; and a wireless controller that activates said drive motor mechanism in response to commands received in a wireless mode of transmission. 85. The media library system of claim 84, wherein said robotic pod base mechanism comprises: a battery that provides a source of power for said drive motor mechanism. 86. The media library system of claim 83, wherein said media processing mechanism comprises: a media picker, operable to pick a media from a selected one of said plurality of media. 87. The media library system of claim 77, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transporting said at least one robot in a vertical direction through said array. 88. The media library system of claim 77, further comprising: at least one elevator mechanism to transport said at least one robot in a vertical direction from row to row. 89. The media library system of claim 88, wherein said at least one elevator mechanism comprises: a vertically oriented set of guide rails, located proximate an end of said set of guide rails; an elevator platform mechanism operable to move on said vertically oriented set of guide rails for receiving said at least one robot; and an elevator drive mechanism to transport said elevator platform mechanism in a vertical direction from a first of said rows to a second selected one of said rows. 90. The media library system of claim 89, wherein said elevator platform mechanism comprises: a horizontally oriented set of guide rail segments positioned to align with two adjacent ones of said set of rail guides that are located at a top and a bottom of said selected one of said rows. 91. The modular library system of claim 77, wherein at least one of the robot and the second robot is transportable along the shareable guide rail by a rack and pinion type drive gear interface. 