A search system and method for controlling multiple agents to optimize an objective using distributed sensing and cooperative control. The search agent can be one or more physical agents, such as a robot, and can be software agents for searching cyberspace. The objective can be: chemical sources, temperature sources, radiation sources, light sources, evaders, trespassers, explosive sources, time dependent sources, time independent sources, function surfaces, maximization points, minimization points, and optimal control of a system such as a communication system, an economy, a crane, and a multi-processor computer.
Claims We claim: 1. A distributed search system for controlling a plurality of agents to search an area for an objective, wherein the distributed search system comprises an agent search system associated with each agent, and wherein each agent search system comprises: a) a sensor; b) a communicator, responsive to the sensor and communicating a sensor reading; and c) a cooperative controller, responsive to sensor readings from some of the plurality of agents and generating an agent control strategy determined from the sensor reading and a cooperative approximation to the search area. 2. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a location identifier and an objective sensor. 3. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the cooperative approximation comprises a quadratic function. 4. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the objective is selected from the group consisting of: chemical sources, temperature sources, radiation sources, light sources, evaders, trespassers, intruders, explosive sources, and combinations thereof. 5. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the objective is selected from the group consisting of: function surfaces, maximization points, minimization points, optimal control of a system, and combinations thereof. 6. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the search area comprises a physical geography, and wherein each agent comprises a robot. 7. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the search area comprises a cyberspace search area. 8. The distributed search system of claim 2, wherein the location identifier is selected from the group consisting of: inertial sensors, inertial position units, global positioning systems, dead-reckoning devices, and combinations thereof. 9. The distributed search system of claim 2, wherein the location identifier is selected from the group consisting of: cyberspace addresses, function surface positions, function identifiers, function variables, and combinations thereof. 10. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the cooperative controller comprises step memory. 11. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the communicator communicates the sensor reading to each agent in the plurality of agents. 12. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein each agent has an agent communication range, wherein the communicator communicates the sensor reading to a plurality of nearest neighbor agents in the plurality of agents within the communication range of the agent. 13. The distributed search system of claim 1, wherein the cooperative controller comprises: a) a computer, in communication with the communicator, and receiving the sensor reading; b) a memory, accessible from the computer; and c) a program generating the agent control strategy on the computer. 