A coupling device for connecting a filter element to a fluid conduit has a male coupling secured to either the fluid conduit or the filter element. The male coupling also has at least two radially projecting tabs. A polymeric female coupling engages with the male coupling for securing the filter element on the fluid conduit. The female coupling also has lands for receiving the tabs. The male and female couplings each have a passageway for fluid and that generally defines an axial direction. Each tab is configured for distributing an axial force generally throughout the tab and laterally relative the axial direction so that either the land being forced against the tab or the tab being forced against the land does not damage the female coupling and as long as the filter element remains secured to the fluid conduit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coupling device for fuels or radioactive fluids for connecting a filter element to a fluid conduit, comprising: a polymeric filter-side coupling attached to said filter element; a metal conduit-side coupling attached to said fluid conduit and engaging said filter-side coupling; a selected one of said filter-side coupling and said conduit-side coupling having at least two radially projecting tabs, and the corresponding other said coupling having lands for receiving said tabs, wherein said filter-side coupling defines an axial direction parallel to a direction of fluid flow through said coupling device and receives an axial force causing said lands and said tabs to press toward each other, and wherein said filter-side coupling has either said lands or said tabs being configured for distributing said axial force laterally relative to said axial direction and generally through out said land or said tab so that said filter-side coupling is not damaged. 2. The coupling device according to claim 1, wherein said conduit-side coupling is stainless steel. 3. The coupling device according to claim 1, wherein said lands are generally flat and said tabs have generally flat surfaces for engaging said lands, said flat surfaces having predetermined surface areas for distributing said axial force throughout said flat surfaces. 4. The coupling device according to claim 3, wherein said coupling with said tabs defines an outer cylindrical surface having a circumference, and wherein said tabs are generally elongated along said circumference. 5. The coupling device according to claim 3, wherein said flat surfaces are generally normal to said axial direction. 6. The coupling device according to claim 1, wherein said lands of said female coupling generally extend in planes perpendicular to said axial direction. 7. The coupling device according to claim 1, wherein said tabs and said lands are configured and disposed on said couplings so that one said coupling is stationary and the other said coupling is rotated at most approximately 1/6 of a full rotation on said stationary coupling to fully engage said lands on said tabs. 8. A coupling device for fuels or radioactive fluids for connecting a filter element to a fluid conduit, comprising: a metal male coupling secured to one of said fluid conduit and said filter element, said male coupling having at least two radially projecting tabs; and a polymeric female coupling engaged with said male coupling for securing said filter element on said fluid conduit, said female coupling having lands for receiving said tabs, said male and female couplings each having a passageway for fluid, said passageways defining an axial direction, each said tab being configured for distributing an axial force generally throughout said tab and laterally relative said axial direction so that either of said land being forced against said tab or said tab being forced against said land does not damage said female coupling and said filter element remains secured to said fluid conduit, wherein said male coupling has a first portion with an outer surface having a first outer diameter configured for fitting within said female coupling and a second portion configured for securing onto said fluid conduit and having a second outer diameter larger than said first outer diameter, and a ledge connecting said first and second outer diameters; and the coupling device further comprising a biasing means disposed on said ledge for biasing said land toward said tab, wherein said axial force is at least partially formed by said biasing means. 9. The coupling device according to claim 8, wherein said female coupling includes a bottom edge, and wherein said biasing means has two opposing sides and is disposed between said bottom edge and said ledge so that said biasing means abuts said ledge on one said side and abuts said bottom edge on the other side. 10. The coupling device according to claim 8, wherein said biasing means is a wavy washer mounted around said first portion and on said ledge. 11. A coupling device for fuels or radioactive fluids for connecting a filter element to a fluid conduit, comprising: a metal male coupling secured to one of said fluid conduit and said filter element, said male coupling having at least two radially projecting tabs; and a polymeric female coupling engaged with said male coupling for securing said filter element on said fluid conduit, said female coupling having lands for receiving said tabs, said male and female couplings each having a passageway for fluid, said passageways defining an axial direction, each said tab being configured for distributing an axial force generally throughout said tab and laterally relative said axial direction so that either of said land being forced against said tab or said tab being forced against said land does not damage said female coupling and said filter element remains secured to said fluid conduit, wherein said male coupling has a first portion with a first surface of rotation, and said female coupling has a second surface of rotation opposing said first surface of rotation, said surfaces of rotation defining where said female coupling receives said male coupling; and the coupling device further including a sealing element disposed between said first and second surfaces of rotation so that unfiltered material cannot enter said fluid conduit. 12. The coupling device according to claim 11, wherein said sealing element is an O-ring. 13. A coupling device for attaching a filter element to a fluid conduit, comprising: a male coupling formed around a first axis and having an attached end, a free end, an exterior side wall between the attached end and the free end, and a hollow core disposed interiorly of the exterior side wall, a portion of the exterior side wall adjacent the free end formed as a first surface of rotation, a plurality of tabs extending outwardly from said portion of the exterior side wall and angularly spaced apart from each other with respect to the first axis, each tab having an engaging face facing the attached end, said engaging face having a nonzero width at an angle to the first axis and subtending a nonzero arc about the first axis, the attached end being attached to a first pre-selected one of the filter element and the fluid source; a female coupling formed of a polymeric material around a second axis and having an attached end, a free end, an interior side wall formed between the attached end and the free end, a portion of the interior side wall adjacent the free end formed generally as a second surface of rotation matable to the first surface of rotation, a plurality of access channels formed in the interior side wall from the direction of the free end of the female coupling and longitudinally extending toward the attached end thereof, each access channel adapted to receive a respective tab of the male coupling element and having an end opposite said free end which terminates in a groove formed in the interior side wall which extends at an angle from the respective access channel and subtending a predetermined arc with respect to the second axis, a land of the groove facing the attached end of the female coupling adapted to receive a respective one of said engaging faces of the tabs, the land having an area, the attached end of the female coupling attached to a second pre-selected one of the filter element and the fluid conduit; and means for axially biasing the filter element relative to the fluid conduit such that an axial force is created pushing the filter element away the axial from the fluid conduit, the axial force being distributed on the areas of the lands and on the engaging faces of the tabs. 14. A coupling device for connecting a filter element to a fluid conduit, comprising: a male coupling secured to one of said fluid conduit and said filter element, said male coupling having at least two radially projecting tabs; and a polymeric female coupling engaged with said male coupling for securing said filter element on said fluid conduit, said female coupling having lands for receiving said tabs, said male and female couplings each having a passageway for fluid, said passageway defining an axial direction, each said tab being configured for distributing an axial force generally throughout said tab and laterally relative said axial direction so that either of said land being forced against said tab or said tab being forced against said land does not damage said female coupling and said filter element remains secured to said fluid conduit, wherein said male coupling has a first portion with an outer surface having a first outer diameter configured for fitting within said female coupling and a second portion configured for securing onto said fluid conduit and having a second outer diameter larger than said first outer diameter, and a ledge connecting said first and second outer diameters, and the coupling device further comprising a biasing means disposed on said ledge for biasing said land toward said tab, wherein said axial force is at least partially formed by said biasing means. 