A light-tight laser enclosure system including an enclosure, a robotic laser, first and second pass through partitions, and first and second rotary positioners. The robotic laser is positioned within an interior volume of the enclosure and defines a processing envelope. The first pass through partition defines a first passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of the enclosure, and is configured to maintain a light-tight configuration as the first passage is placed in selective communication with the interior and exterior volumes. The second pass through partition defines a second passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of the enclosure, and is configured to maintain a light-tight configuration as the second passage is placed in selective communication with the interior and exterior volumes. The first and second rotary positioners are configured to secure a workpiece within the first and the second passages, respectively.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece enclosure system comprising: an enclosure; a first pass through partition defining a first passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said first pass through partition is configured to maintain a laser light-tight configuration as said first passage is placed in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a second pass through partition defining a second passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said second pass through partition is configured to maintain a laser light-tight configuration as said second passage is placed in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a first rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said first passage; and a second rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said second passage. 2. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to place said first and second pass through partitions in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure and a robotic laser positioned within said enclosure, wherein said first and second pass through partitions are each positioned within an operating envelope of said robotic laser. 3. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said first and second pass through partitions are positioned adjacent one another. 4. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said controller is programmed to control said pass through partitions and said robotic laser to execute a load/process/unload sequence at each of said first and second pass through partitions. 5. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said load/process/unload sequence at said first pass through partition is coordinated with said load/process/unload sequence at said second pass through partition. 6. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said load portion of said sequence corresponds to communication of a selected pass through partition with said exterior volume, said process portion of said sequence corresponds to communication of a selected pass through partition with said interior volume, and said unload portion of said sequence corresponds to communication of a selected pass through partition with said exterior volume. 7. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to place said first and second pass through partitions in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure. 8. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a robotic laser positioned within said enclosure. 9. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 8 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to coordinate control of said first and second rotary positioners with control of said robotic laser. 10. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 8 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to: input respective load/unload and processing state signals for said first and second pass through partitions; initiate robotic laser processing of a workpiece secured in said first passage after input of a processing state signal corresponding to said first pass through partition; and initiate robotic laser processing of a workpiece secured in said second passage after input of a processing state signal corresponding to said second pass through partition. 11. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of said pass through partitions comprises a scrap chute formed at a lower portion of each of said partitions. 12. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 11 wherein each of said scrap chutes is positioned above a scrap conveyor. 13. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 further comprises a scrap conveyor and a scrap chute configured to receive scraps originating from said first and second pass through partitions. 14. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a scrap conveyor extending from said interior volume through a conveyor interface with said enclosure to an exterior of said enclosure, wherein said enclosure system is configured to define a laser light-tight barrier at said conveyor interface. 15. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said enclosure and said pass through partitions are configured to limit escape of fumes from said interior volume of said enclosure. 16. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a video imaging device mounted within at least one of said first and second pass through partitions. 17. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of said first and second pass through partitions comprise an inner nesting member and an outer nesting member defining one of said first and second passages. 18. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 17 wherein said outer nesting member comprises a stationary nesting member and said inner nesting member comprises a rotary nesting member. 19. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second pass through partitions comprise: a first laser light-tight inner pass through door defining a boundary between said interior volume and said first passage; a first laser light-tight outer pass through door defining a boundary between said first passage and an exterior of said enclosure; a second laser light-tight inner pass through door defining a boundary between said interior volume and said second passage; a second laser light-tight outer pass through door defining a boundary between said second passage and said exterior of said enclosure. 20. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 19 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to: open and close selectively said inner and outer pass through doors; and maintain a laser light-tight configuration characterized by closure of at least one of said inner and outer doors associated with each of said passages. 21. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 19 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to: input respective closed state signals for each of said first and second inner and outer pass through doors; open said first outer pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said first inner pass through door; open said first inner pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said first outer pass through door; open said second outer pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said second inner pass through door; and open said second inner pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said second outer pass through door. 22. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 19 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to: input respective closed state signals for each of said first and second inner and outer pass through doors; open said first inner pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said first outer pass through door and after input of a closed state signal corresponding to one of said second inner and outer pass through doors: and open said second inner pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said second outer pass through door and after input of a closed state signal corresponding to one of said second inner and outer pass through doors. 23. A workpiece enclosure system as claimed in claim 22 wherein said workpiece enclosure system further comprises a controller programmed to: input respective open and closed state signals for each of said first and second inner and outer pass through doors; open said first inner pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said first outer pass through door and after input of a closed state signal corresponding to one of said second inner and outer pass through doors; initiate robotic laser processing of a workpiece secured in said first passage after input of an open state signal corresponding to said first inner pass through door; open said second inner pass through door after input of a closed state signal corresponding to said second outer pass through door and after input of a closed state signal corresponding to one of said second inner and outer pass through doors; and initiate robotic laser processing of a workpiece secured in said second passage after input of an open state signal corresponding to said second inner pass through door. 24. A light-tight laser enclosure system comprising: an enclosure; a robotic laser positioned within an interior volume of said enclosure and defining a processing envelope; a first pass through partition defining a first passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said first pass through partition is configured to maintain a light-tight configuration as said first passage is placed in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a second pass through partition defining a second passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said second pass through partition is configured to maintain a light-tight configuration as said second passage is placed in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a first rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said first passage; and a second rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said second passage. 25. A light-tight laser enclosure system comprising: an enclosure; a robotic laser positioned within an interior volume of said enclosure and defining a processing envelope; a first pass through partition defining a first passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said first pass through partition is configured to maintain a light-tight configuration as said first passage is placed in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a second pass through partition defining a second passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said second pass through partition is configured to maintain a light-tight configuration as said second passage is placed in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a first rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said first passage; a second rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said second passage; and a controller programmed to place said first and second pass through partitions in selective communication with said interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, coordinate control of said first and second rotary positioners with control of said robotic laser, input respective open and closed state signals for said first and second pass through partitions, initiate robotic laser processing of a workpiece secured in said first passage after input of an open state signal corresponding to said first pass through partition, initiate robotic laser processing of a workpiece secured in said second passage after input of an open state signal corresponding to said second pass through partition. 26. A workpiece enclosure system comprising: an enclosure; a first pass through partition defining a first passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said first pass through partition comprises a first laser light-tight inner pass through door defining a boundary between said interior volume of said enclosure and said first passage, and a first laser light-tight outer pass through door defining a boundary between said firs passage and said exterior volume of said enclosure; a second pass through partition defining a second passage in selective communication with interior an exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein said second pass through partition comprises a second laser light-tight inner pass through door defining a boundary between said interior volume of said enclosure and said second passage, and a second light-tight outer pass through door defining a boundary between said second passage and said exterior volume of said enclosure; a first rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said first passage; and a second rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said second passage. 27. A workpiece enclosure system comprising: an enclosure; a first rotary pass through partition defining a first passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure; a second rotary pass through partition defining a second passage in selective communication with interior and exterior volumes of said enclosure, wherein each of said first and second rotary pass through partitions comprise a rotary inner nesting member and a stationary outer nesting member defining one of said first and second passages, and said inner and outer nesting members of said first and second rotary pass through partitions are dimensioned to maintain a laser light-tight configuration; a first rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said first passage; and a second rotary positioner configured to secure a workpiece within said second passage. 