A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical system, comprising: a first medical device; a first input device that can control said first medical device; a second input device that can control said first medical device; and an arbitrator that is coupled to said first input device and allows either said first input device or said second input device to control said first medical device. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said first medical device includes an instrument. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said first input device includes a console that has a handle. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said second input device includes a console that has a video screen. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said second input device includes a touchpad screen. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second input devices each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a priority that is used by said arbitrator to allow either said first input device or second input device to control said first medical device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second input devices each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a source address that is used by said arbitrator to allow either said first input device or second input device to control said first medical device. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said arbritator includes a computer. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a communication link that couples said first and second input devices with said first medical device. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a second medical device that is controlled by a third input device. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm that moves a medical instrument and said second medical device includes a robotic arm that moves an endoscope coupled to a camera. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising a communication link that couples said first and second medical devices with said first and second input devices, and a computer that multiplexes robotic data from said robotic arms with video data from said camera onto said communication link. 14. A medical system, comprising: a first medical device; first input means for controlling said first medical device; second input means for controlling said first medical instrument; and, arbitrator means for allowing either said first input device or said second input device to control said first medical device. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said first medical device includes an instrument. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein said first input means includes a console that has a handle. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said second input means includes a console that has a video screen. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein said second input means includes a touchpad screen. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein said first and second input means each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a priority that is used by said arbitrator means to allow either said first input means or second input means to control said first medical device. 21. The system of claim 14, wherein said first and second input means each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a source address that is used by said arbitrator means to allow either said first input means or second input means to control said first medical device. 22. The system of claim 14, wherein said arbritator means includes a computer. 23. The system of claim 14, further comprising communication means for coupling said first and second input means with said first medical device. 24. The system of claim 23, further comprising third input means for controlling a second medical device. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm that moves a medical instrument and said second medical device includes a robotic arm that moves an endoscope coupled to a camera. 26. The system of claim 25, further comprising communication means for coupling said first and second medical devices with said first and second input means, and multiplexor means for multiplexing robotic data from said robotic arms with video data from said camera onto said communication means. 27. A medical system, comprising: a first robotic arm; a first medical instrument coupled to said first robotic arm; a second robotic arm; a second medical instrument coupled to said second robotic arm; a third robotic arm that can hold an endoscope coupled to a camera; a first console that can control said first and second robotic arms; a second console that can control said first and second robotic arms; a first endoscopic input device that can control said third robotic arm; a second endoscopic input device that can control said third robotic arm; and, an arbitrator coupled to said first robotic arm, said second robotic arm, said third robotic arm, said first console, said second console, said first endoscopic input device and said second endoscopic input device. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information including a priority to said arbitrator, said priority is used by said arbitrator to determine whether said first and second robotic arms are to be controlled by either said first console or said second console. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information including a source address to said arbitrator, said source addresses are used by said arbitrator to determine whether said first and second robotic arms are to be controlled by said first console or said second console. 30. The system of claim 27, further comprising a communication link coupled to said arbitrator and said first and second consoles, said arbitrator multiplexes robotic data from said first, second and third robotic arms with video data from the camera onto said communication link. 31. A medical system, comprising: a first robotic arm; a first medical instrument coupled to said second robotic arm; a second robotic arm; a second medical instrument coupled to said second robotic arm; a third robotic arm that can hold an endoscope coupled to a camera; a first console that can control said first and second robotic arms; a second console that can control said first and second robotic arms; a first endoscopic input device that can control said third robotic arm; a second endoscopic input device that can control said third robotic arm; and, arbitrator means for allowing said first and second robotic arms to be controlled by either said first console or said second console, and said third robotic arm to be controlled by either said first endoscopic input device or said second endoscopic input device. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information including a priority to said arbitrator means, said priority is used by said arbitrator means to determine whether said first and second robotic arms are to be controlled by either said first console or said second console. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information including a source address to said arbitrator means, said source addresses are used by said arbitrator means to determine whether said first and second robotic arms are to be controlled by said first console or said second console. 34. The system of claim 31, further comprising communication means for coupling said arbitrator means with said first and second consoles, said arbitrator means multiplexes robotic data from said first, second and third robotic arms with video data from the camera onto said communication means. 35. A medical system, comprising: a first medical device; an arbitrator coupled to said first and second medical devices. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein said arbitrator allows control of said first medical device in accordance with a priority included in a packet of information transmitted to said arbitrator. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein said arbitrator allows control of said first medical device in accordance with a source address included in a packet of information transmitted to said arbitrator. 38. The system of claim 35, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm. 39. A medical system, comprising: a first input device; a second input device; and, an arbitrator coupled to said first and second input devices. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein said first input device transmits a first packet of information including a first priority and said second input device transmits a second packet of information including a second priority, said arbitrator transmits either said first or second packet of information based on said first and second priority. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein said first and second input devices each include a console. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein each console includes a pair of handles and a screen. 43. A medical robotic system architecture, comprising: a communication network that includes an arbitrator; a robotic arm coupled to said communication network; a medical instrument coupled to said robotic arm; a first surgeon console coupled to said communication network; and, a second surgeon console coupled to said communication network. 44. The architecture of claim 43, wherein said communication network includes an interconnect device. 45. The architecture of claim 43, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information, said packet containing a priority field. 46. A medical robotic system architecture, comprising: a medical instrument coupled to said robotic arm; movement means for moving said medical instrument; first surgeon control means for controlling said medical instrument; second surgeon control means for controlling said medical instrument; and, communication means that includes an arbitrator for coupling said movement means and said medical instrument to said first and second surgeon control means. 47. The architecture of claim 46, wherein said communication means includes an interconnect device. 48. The architecture of claim 46, wherein said first and second control means each transmit a packet of information, said packet containing a priority field. 49. A medical robotic system, comprising: a medical instrument; a robotic arm; a communication network coupled to said robotic arm and said medical instrument; an input device; and, a computer coupled to said input device, said computer transmits a packet of information over said communication network, said packet including a priority field and a data field that contains robotic data. 50. The system of claim 49, wherein said data field includes RS232 data. 51. The system of claim 49, wherein said input device includes a handle. 52. The system of claim 49, further comprising a screen coupled to said computer. 53. A medical robotic system, comprising: a medical instrument; a robotic arm; a communication network coupled to said robotic arm and said medical instrument; input means for receiving a command to control said medical instrument; and, transmission means for transmitting a packet of information over said communication network, said packet including a priority field and a data field that contains robotic data that corresponds to the command. 54. The system of claim 53, wherein said data field includes RS232 data. 55. The system of claim 53, wherein said input means includes a handle. 56. The system of claim 53, further comprising a screen coupled to said transmission means. 57. A medical robotic system architecture, comprising: a communication network; a robotic arm coupled to said communication network; a medical instrument coupled to said robotic arm; a first surgeon console that is coupled to said communication network and transmits a packet of information that includes a priority field; and, a second surgeon console that is coupled to said communication network and transmits a packet of information that includes a priority field. 58. The architecture of claim 43, wherein said communication network includes an interconnect device. 59. A medical robotic system architecture, comprising: a medical instrument coupled to said robotic arm; movement means for moving said medical instrument; first surgeon control means for controlling said medical instrument and transmitting a packet of information that includes a priority field; second surgeon control means for controlling said medical instrument and transmitting a packet of information that includes a priority field; and, communication means for coupling said movement means and said medical instrument to said first and second surgeon control means. 60. The architecture of claim 46, wherein said communication means includes an interconnect device. 