The present invention provides an apparatus and method for automated and rapid loading of a large number of samples for mass spectrometric analysis using various ionization methods (e.g. matrix assisted desorption by laser bombardment (MALDI) and atmosperic pressure ionization (API) methods such as electrospray). The aparatus utilizes microtiter plates to hold the sample, optical elements (e.g. fiber optic) to facilitate automated transport of the ions, and a multiple part capillary comprising at least two capillary sections joined with airtight seal by a union for use in mass spectrometry (particularly with ionization sources) to transport ions between pressure regions of a mass spectrometer for analysis is described herein. Preferably, the capillary is useful to transport ions from an elevated pressure ionization source to a first vacuum region of a mass analysis system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automating an atmospheric pressure ionization (API) source for a mass spectrometer, wherein said apparatus comprises: a source tray positioned external to said mass spectrometer; a robot interfaced with said API source for retrieving a sample for analysis and for providing ions from said API source; and a capillary having an inlet end positioned to accent said ions and an outlet end positioned to introduce said ions into a first vacuum region of said mass spectrometer; wherein said robot positions said API source near said inlet end of said capillary such that said ions from at least one of said API source devices are introduced into said capillary. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary comprises a substantially linear channel therethrough. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary comprises a channel having a helical structure. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary comprises a channel having a sinusoidal structure. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said inlet end and said outlet end of said capillary comprise conductive end caps. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said API source device is selected from the group consisting of an electrospray ionization (ESI) source, and an chemical ionization (CI) source. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said ESI source is selected from the group consisting of a pneumatically assisted electrosprayer, a microelectrosprayer, and a nanoelectrosprayer. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a first said API source is an ESI source and a second said API source is a CI source. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein an analyzer of said mass spectrometer is selected from the group consisting of a time-of-flight mass analyzer, a quadrupole mass analyzer, a quadrupole ion trap mass analyzer, and a Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said capillary is a multiple section capillary having a first section including an inlet end and an outlet end, said first section for receiving ions from said API source, and a second section having an inlet end and an outlet end, wherein said outlet end of said first section is coaxially positioned with said inlet end of said second section, and said outlet end of said second section is positioned such that said ions are introduced into a first vacuum region of said mass spectrometer. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a helical structure. 12. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a linear structure. 13. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein at least one of said first section or said second section comprises a channel having a sinusoidal structure. 14. An apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said first and second sections are removably connected with a union. 15. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said union comprises means for providing an airtight seal between said ends of said first and second sections within said union. 16. An apparatus for automating the mass spectrometric analysis of samples ionized with an atmospheric pressure ionization (API) source, wherein said apparatus comprises: a source tray for holding at least one type of said sample material; a multiple section capillary including first and second capillary sections each having an inlet end and an outlet end; a union for coaxially connecting with lateral seal said first capillary section to said second capillary section; and a robot interfaced with at least one said API source device, said robot including means for collecting said sample to be ionized by said API source and means for controlling positioning of said API source; and a mass analyzer region; wherein said API source is positioned by said robot such that said ions are introduced into said inlet end of said first capillary section, and wherein said outlet end of said second capillary section is positioned such that said ions are introduced into said mass analyzer region. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein at least one of said first or second capillary sections comprises a substantially linear channel therethrough. 18. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein at least one of said first or second capillary sections comprises a channel having a helical structure. 19. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein at least one of said first or second capillary sections comprises a channel having a sinusoidal structure. 20. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein at least one of said inlet end or said outlet end of at least one of said first or second capillary sections comprise conductive end caps. 21. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said outlet end of said capillary is positioned such that said ions are transported into a first vacuum region of said mass analyzer region. 22. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said API source device is selected from the group consisting of an electrospray ionization (ESI)source, and a chemical ionization (CI) source. 23. An apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said ESI source is selected from the group consisting of a pneumatically assisted electrosprayer, a microelectrosprayer, and a nanoelectrosprayer. 24. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein a first said API source is an ESI source and a second said API source is a CI source. 25. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said mass analyzer region includes an analyzer selected from the group consisting of a time-of-flight mass analyzer, a quadrupole mass analyzer, a quadrupole ion trap mass analyzer, and a Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer. 26. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said apparatus further comprises a union including means for removably securing said ends of said first and second sections. 27. An apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said union comprises means for providing a substantially airtight seal between said ends of said first and second sections within said union. 