A floating and self-aligning suspension system to automatically align and attach a connector to an assembly is disclosed. The floating and self-aligning suspension system includes a frame and a biasing mechanism attached to the frame. A connector is mounted to the frame and the biasing mechanism permits the frame and connector to move relative to another structure to allow the connector to self-align and attach to an assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A floating and self-aligning suspension system, comprising: a frame including first and second base members extending substantially parallel to one another and a stanchion member extending from each end of the first and second base members; at least two plunger assemblies attached to each of the first and second base members and extending from the first and second base members in a direction substantially opposite to the stanchion members to permit movement of the frame along a first axis relative to an assembly; at least one other plunger assembly attached to each stanchion member and extending from each stanchion member to permit movement of the frame along at least a second axis relative to the assembly; and a connector mounted to the frame, wherein the frame is movable along at least the first and second axes for self alignment and attachment of the connector to the assembly. 2. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 1, wherein each plunger assembly comprises: a body; a hole formed through the body, the hole having a smaller opening at one end of the body; a plunger disposed in the hole and including one end extending a predetermined length out of the smaller opening and an opposite end with a lip for contacting an interior edge of the smaller opening of the hole to retain the plunger within the hole; a spring disposed within the hole in contact with the lip end of the plunger to bias the plunger and force the one end to extend out of the smaller opening; and p1 a retaining cap to retain the spring and plunger within the body. 3. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 2, wherein the body of the plunger assembly is substantially cylindrical and an exterior of the body is threaded for attachment to the frame. 4. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 2, wherein the plunger assembly includes a locking feature to adjust the predetermined length of the plunger extending out of the smaller opening. 5. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 1, further comprising: a bank of capacitors mounted to the frame; and a cable connecting the bank of capacitors to the connector, wherein the bank of capacitors and the cable are moveable along at least the two axes of motion with the frame to permit the connector to electrically connect the bank of capacitors to the assembly. 6. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 5, wherein the bank of capacitors is coupleable to an external power supply. 7. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 1, further comprising an outer frame within which the frame is disposed, wherein the frame can move relative to the outer frame to permit alignment of the connector to a mating connector on the assembly. 8. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 1, wherein the assembly is a central processing unit including a plurality of signal pins extending in one direction and a power tab extending in another direction for attachment to the connector. 9. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 1, wherein the assembly comprises a integrated circuit including a pin array extending in one direction and a tab extending in another direction to require multiple directions of motion to socket pin array and tab of the integrated circuit and wherein the frame is movable to permit the connector to self-align and connect to the tab of the integrated circuit. 10. A floating and self-aligning suspension system, comprising a frame; a biasing mechanism mounted to the frame to permit the frame to move relative to another structure, wherein the biasing member is a plunger assembly; and a connecter mounted to the frame and movable with the frame for self-alignment and attachment to an assembly, the connector operable to attach to the assembly. 11. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 10, wherein the biasing mechanism comprises a plurality of plunger assemblies. 12. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 10, further comprising: a bank of capacitors mounted to the frame; and a cable connecting the bank of capacitors to the connector. 13. The floating and self-aligning suspension system of claim 10, wherein the other structure is an outer frame into which the frame is disposed. 14. The floating self-aligning suspension system of claim 13, further comprising an actuator to move the outer frame, wherein the frame and connector will move independent of the outer frame to self-align and attach the connector to a power tab of the assembly. 15. The suspension system of claim 14, wherein the assembly is an integrated circuit having an array of signal pins extending in one direction and a power tab extending in another direction for attachment to the connector. 16. The suspension system of claim 10, wherein the frame comprises: a first base member; a second base member; at least one cross-member connected to the first and second base members; and a plurality of stanchion members, one stanchion member extending from each end of the first and second base members; and wherein the biasing mechanism comprises: at least two plunger assemblies attached to each of the first and second base members and extending outwardly from the frame to contact the outer frame; and a plunger assembly attached to each stanchion member and extending outwardly from the frame to contact the outer frame. 17. A method of making a floating and self-aligning suspension system, comprising: forming an inner frame; attaching a biasing arrangement to the inner frame, wherein the biasing arrangement comprises a plunger assembly; mounting a connector to the inner frame, the connector operable to attach the inner frame to another element; forming an outer frame; and disposing the inner frame within the outer frame, wherein the biasing arrangement permits the inner frame to move relative to the outer frame. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein attaching the biasing arrangement comprises attaching a plurality of plunger assemblies to the inner frame to contact the out frame when the inner frame is disposed within the outer frame. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein forming the inner frame comprises: forming a first substantially U-shaped frame member; forming a second substantially U-shaped frame member; forming at least one cross-member; and connecting the first and second substantially U-shaped frame members together with the at least one cross-member. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: attaching a cable including a plurality of conductors to the connector; mounting a bank of capacitors to the inner frame; and attaching the cable to the bank of capacitors. 