A method for calibrating a first co-ordinate frame of a robot and effector in a second frame of reference of a sensor when the sensor is substantially rigidly attached to the robot and effector, including the steps of measuring first positions of a plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor, with the first positions corresponding to a first absolute position of the robot and effector, moving the robot and effector, measuring second positions of the plurality of first light sources, which second positions correspond to the desired second absolute position of the robot and effector and the sensor, repeating the measurement of and movement from the first to second positions so as to provide at least two sets of measurements of first and second positions corresponding to at least two movements, each of which at least two movements is a known, unique transform, combining the at least two sets of measurements of first and second positions so as to calibrate the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating a first co-ordinate frame of an indexing means in a second frame of reference of a sensing means when the sensing means is substantially rigidly attached to the indexing means, including the steps of: measuring first positions of a plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means, each of which first light sources is remote from the sensing means and is either an active light source or an illuminable reflecting point, with the first positions corresponding to a first absolute position of the indexing means; moving the indexing means; measuring second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means, which second positions correspond to the desired second absolute position of the indexing means; repeating the measurement of and movement from the first to second positions providing at least two sets of measurements of first and second positions corresponding to at least two movements, each of which at least two movements is a known, unique transform; and combining the at least two sets of measurements of first and second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means by a transformation means so as to calibrate for calibrating the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which the measurements of first and second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means includes the steps of: imaging on at least two imaging devices light reflected or projected from the plurality of first light sources; transmitting signals indicative of the distribution of reflected or projected light from each of the at least two imaging devices to a processors; and combining the signals and defining the first and second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means. 3. A method according to claim 2, in which the known movements corresponding to the at least two sets of first and second positions are two translations. 4. A method according to claim 2, in which the known movements corresponding to the at least two sets of first and second positions are one translation and one rotation. 5. A method according to claim 2, in which the known movements corresponding to the at least two sets of first and second positions are two rotations about different axes. 6. A method according to claim 5, including at least one of a translation and a further rotation. 7. A method according to claim 3, in which the combination of the at least two sets of first and second position measurements includes for each of the at least two sets of first and second position measurements, combining each of the first and second measured positions with a matrix multiplication of the corresponding known movement transform and an unknown transform, which unknown transform describes the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference to give a set of at least two expressions, summing each of the set of at least two expressions, and optimizing any errors resulting therefrom by standard optimization techniques, in order to determine the unknown transform, which unknown transform calibrates the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference. 8. An apparatus for calibrating a first co-ordinate frame of an indexing means in a second frame of reference of a sensing means when the sensing means is substantially rigidly attached to the indexing means, including sensing means, indexing means for moving the sensing means when the sensing means is substantially rigidly attached thereto, a plurality of first light sources, which first light sources include active light sources or illuminable reflecting points and are locatable at a fixed position in space, a processor in operative association with the indexing means, transformation means in operative association with the processor, transmitting means for transmitting signals indicative of a first and a second position of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means from the sensing means to the processor, which first and second positions of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means correspond to an absolute first position and a desired, absolute second position of the indexing means respectively, such that when the indexing means moves from the absolute first position to the desired absolute second position, the first and second positions of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means transmitted to the processor are combined by the transformation means for calibrating the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the indexing means is a robot and an end effector. 10. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the sensing means includes at least two imaging devices, each attachable to the end effector and each configurable to image each of the plurality of first light sources. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein each of the at least two imaging devices is a metrology sensor operable to create digitizable images, and which at least two imaging devices are substantially equi-spaced around the end effector. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, including at least two second light sources, each associated with a respective imaging device, and wherein the plurality of first light sources is a plurality of reflective targets. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12 including a first part, which first part carries the plurality of light sources and includes a rectangular plate, a shaft of substantially circular cross-section, which shaft is removably attachable to a first face of the rectangular plate and has at least one of the plurality of first light sources positioned thereon, and means for removably attaching the shaft to the rectangular plate. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the transmitting means includes coaxial cables and frame grabber ports for transmitting a signal indicative of the first and a second positions of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means to the processor. 15. A method for calibrating a first co-ordinate frame of a robot and an end effector in a second frame of reference of a sensor when the sensor is substantially rigidly attached to the robot and end effector, including the steps of: measuring first positions of a plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor, each of which first light sources is remote from the sensor and is either an active light source or an illuminable reflecting point, with the first positions corresponding to a first absolute position of the robot and end effector; moving the robot and end effector; measuring second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor, which second positions correspond to the desired second absolute position of the robot and end effector; repeating the measurement of and movement from the first to second positions providing at least two sets of measurements of first and second positions corresponding to at least two movements, each of which at least two movements is a known, unique transform; and combining the at least two sets of measurements of first and second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor by a transformer calibrating the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference. 16. A method according to claim 15, in which the measurements of first and second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor includes the steps of: imaging on at least two imaging devices light reflected or projected from the plurality of first light sources; transmitting signals indicative of the distribution of reflected or projected light from each of the at least two imaging devices to a processor; and combining the signals and defining the first and second positions of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor. 17. A method according to claim 16, in which the known movements corresponding to the at least two sets of first and second positions are two translations. 18. A method according to claim 16, in which the known movements corresponding to the at least two sets of first and second positions are one translation and one rotation. 19. A method according to claim 16, in which the known movements corresponding to the at least two sets of first and second positions are two rotations about different axes. 20. A method according to claim 19, including at least one of a translation and a further rotation. 21. A method according to claim 17, in which the combination of the at least two sets of first and second position measurements includes for each of the at least two sets of first and second position measurements, combining each of the first and second measured positions with a matrix multiplication of the corresponding known movement transform and an unknown transform, which unknown transform describes the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference to give a set of at least two expressions, summing each of the set of at least two expressions, and optimizing any errors resulting therefrom by standard optimization techniques, in order to, determine the unknown transform, which unknown transform calibrates the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference. 22. An apparatus for calibrating a first co-ordinate frame of a robot and end effector in a second frame of reference of a sensor when the sensor is substantially rigidly attached to the robot and end effector, including a sensor, a robot and end effector for moving the sensor when the sensor is substantially rigidly attached thereto, a plurality of first light sources, which first light sources include active light sources or illumninable reflecting points and are locatable at a fixed position in space, a processor in operative association with the robot and end effector, transformer in operative association with the processor, transmitter for transmitting signals indicative of a first and a second position of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor from the sensor to the processor, which first and second positions of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor correspond to an absolute first position and a desired, absolute second position of the robot and end effector, respectively, such that when the robot and end effector moves from the absolute first position to the desired absolute second position, the first and second positions of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensor transmitted to the processor are combined by the transformer calibrating the first co-ordinate frame in the second frame of reference. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the sensor includes at least two imaging devices, each attachable to the end effector and each configurable to image each of the plurality of first light sources. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein each of the at least two imaging devices is a metrology sensor operable to create digitizable images, and which at least two imaging devices are substantially equi-spaced around the end effector. 25. Apparatus according to claim 24, including at least two second light sources, each associated with a respective imaging device, and wherein the plurality of first light sources is a plurality of reflective targets. 26. Apparatus according to claim 25 including a first part, which first part carries the plurality of light sources and includes a rectangular plate, a shaft of substantially circular cross-section, which shaft is removably attachable to a first face of the rectangular plate and has at least one of the plurality of first light sources positioned thereon, and means for removably attaching the shaft to the rectangular plate. 27. Apparatus according to claim 26, wherein the transmitter includes coaxial cables and frame grabber ports for transmitting a signal indicative of the first and a second positions of each of the plurality of first light sources relative to the sensing means to the processor. 