A self contained sensing apparatus includes a housing establishing an interior compartment, the housing having a maximum thickness which is less than the size of an access portal for inserting the housing into an area for sensing. The housing includes a window extending through a principal housing surface. A sensor is provided within the housing and generally aligned with the window for sensing at least one parameter. In a preferred embodiment, the sensor is an optical sensor for sensing images through the window. A transmitter is provided within the housing and coupled with the sensor for receiving signals representative of the sensed parameter and transmitting the signals out of the housing.
Claims We claim: 1. A self contained sensing apparatus for viewing the interior of a functioning semiconductor wafer processing chamber having a gate opening and a robot arm comprising: a housing establishing an interior compartment, the housing having a maximum thickness which is less than the size of the gate opening so that the housing may be inserted into the chamber through the gate opening, the housing including a window extending through a principal housing surface; an optical sensor within the housing and generally aligned with the window for sensing images of the interior of the chamber; and a transmitter within the housing coupled with the sensor for receiving signals representative of the sensed images and transmitting the signals out of the housing. 2. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the housing comprises: a generally flat base member having a first principal surface, a second principal surface and a first predetermined thickness, a first flange member extending from the second surface of the base member, the first flange member having a distal surface, an outer dimension and a second predetermined thickness, a generally flat cover member having a first principal surface, a second principal surface and a third predetermined thickness, the cover member having a dimension which is at least as great as the dimension of the first flange member, the second surface of the cover member engaging the distal surface of the first flange member to establish, with base member, the compartment, the first, second and third predetermined thicknesses, when combined, establishing the maximum thickness of the housing. 3. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein the base member is generally circular and has an axis, the first flange member is generally annular, has an axis and an outer circumference and is coaxial with the base member and the cover member is generally circular, has an axis and is coaxial with the base member. 4. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the transmitter is of the FM type. 5. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 1 further including: a receiver located out of the processing chamber for receiving signals from the transmitter and a monitor coupled to the receiver for displaying the sensed images. 6. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the optical sensor comprises a video camera. 7. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein the video camera comprises a CMOS sensor located adjacent to the window. 8. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the video camera further comprises a lens having a predetermined focal length positioned between the CMOS sensor and the window. 9. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the housing further includes an opening extending through the principal housing surface proximate to the window and wherein the video camera further comprises a light emitting diode aligned with the opening for providing illumination to an area viewed by the CMOS sensor. 10. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 1 further including a power source comprised of a rechargeable battery. 11. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein the battery is of the lithium ion type. 12. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 10 further including a charging jack accessible from the outside of the housing for recharging the battery. 13. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 10 further including an on/off switch for applying or removing power from the battery to other components within the housing period. 14. The sensing apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein the on/off switch comprises a magnetically actuated reed switch accessible from the outside of the housing. 