An apparatus and method for increasing data storage capacity of a media library is disclosed herein. The elevation or vertical clearance of a tray assembly included in the library is configured to permit access of data storage media stored near the floor of the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism for transporting data storage media in a library, comprising: a motor configured to provide actuation to a picker; a drive shaft engaging the motor and configured to guide the picker along a vertical direction; and the picker configured to transport data storage media between at least one storage unit and at least one data access device, the drive shaft provided between the motor and the picker when the picker is vertically positioned above the motor, and a combined vertical clearance provided for the motor, drive shaft, and picker is equal to or less than a thickness of a data storage device holder included in the storage unit. 2. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein the motor comprises a pancake motor. 3. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein the motor generates a torque having a rotation axis along a vertical direction. 4. The mechanism of claim 1, further comprising a gear set provided between the motor and the drive shaft. 5. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein the combined vertical clearance is approximately 30 millimeters. 6. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein the data storage device holder is configured to hold a data storage device, and the data storage device comprises a tape cartridge. 7. A media library, comprising: at least one storage unit including a first end, a second end opposite the first end, and a plurality of rows between the first and second ends to each house a data storage media; and an assembly including a base, a picker, and a motor positioned adjacent to the base, the base being located closer to the first end of the storage unit than the picker, the first end and the base being parallel to one another, the motor comprising a pancake motor, and the assembly accessing the rows between the first and second ends except a row closest to the first end. 8. The media library of claim 7 wherein the motor generates a torque having a rotation axis along a vertical direction. 9. A media library, comprising: at least one storage unit including a first end, a second end opposite the first end, and a plurality of rows between the first and second ends to each house a data storage media; and an assembly including a base, a picker, and a motor positioned adjacent to the base, the base being located closer to the first end of the storage unit than the picker, the first end and the base being parallel to one another, the motor being positioned between the base and the picker, and the assembly accessing the rows between the first and second ends except a row closest to the first end. 10. The media library of claim 9, wherein the first end comprises a floor of the media library. 11. The media library of claim 9, wherein the first end comprises a ceiling of the media library. 12. The media library of claim 9, wherein the data storage media comprises at least one of a single reel tape cartridge, optical media, and hard drive. 13. The media library of claim 9, wherein the motor generates a torque having a rotation axis along a vertical direction. 14. The media library of claim 9, wherein a vertical dimension of the assembly is approximately equal to or less than a vertical height of the row closest to the first end. 15. The media library of claim 9 further comprising a drive shaft engaging the motor and configured to guide the picker along a vertical direction. 16. The media library of claim 15 further comprising a gear set provided between the motor and the drive shaft. 17. A method for accessing data storage media in a library, the method comprising the step of: accessing with an assembly each of a plurality rows in at least one storage unit between a first end and a second end opposite the first end except a row closest to the first end, each of the plurality of rows housing a data storage media, the assembly including a base, a picker, and a motor that is positioned between the base and the picker, the base being located closer to the first end of the storage unit than the picker, and the first end and the base being parallel to one another. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of accessing includes the motor generating a torque having a rotation axis along a vertical direction. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of accessing includes the motor comprising a disc motor. 