A method and apparatus for welding with a robotic welder is disclosed. The system includes a power supply, preferably phase controlled, a controller and a robotic interface. The components are in a single housing. the controller is externally controlled. An adaptor cord connects a robot controller to the power supply. The controller also has an automatic set-up control connected to the power control output.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: a phase controlled power supply; a robot receptacle; and a controller, operatively connected to the power supply, and including a robot interface connected the robot receptacle; wherein the robot receptacle, robot interface, controller and power supply are disposed in a single housing. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the phase controlled power supply includes at least one SCR, and the controller provides a firing angle of the at least one SCR. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an adaptor cord connected to the robot receptacle. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the robot interface is comprised of a software implemented by a digital circuit. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller is an externally controlled controller. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot receptacle can receive adaptor cords for a plurality of robot types. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the receptacle means can receive cords means used with a plurality of robot types. 8. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: power means for provided phase controlled power; receptacle means for receiving a cord connected to a robot; control means for controlling the power means, operatively connected to the power means; and interface means for interfacing with and understanding a robot controller, connected to the receptacle means; wherein the receptacle means, interface means, controller means and power means are disposed in a single housing. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the power means includes at least one SCR, and the control means includes means for firing angle the at least one SCR. 10. The system of claim 9 further comprising a cord means for connecting the receptacle means to a robot controller. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the interface means includes means for executing a software program. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the control means is an externally controlled controller. 13. A method of welding with a robotic welder comprising: providing phase controlled power; receiving a first end of a cord having a second end capable of being connected to a robot; controlling the power; interfacing with the robot using an interface and a controller disposed in a single housing. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein controlling the power includes choosing a firing angle for at least one SCR. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising a for connecting a second end of the cord to a robot. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein interfacing includes executing a software program. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising an externally controlling the controller. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising selecting the cord from a plurality of cords used with a plurality of robot types. 19. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: a power supply; a robot receptacle; and an externally controlled controller, operatively connected to the power supply, and including a robot interface connected the robot receptacle; wherein the robot receptacle, robot interface, controller and power supply are disposed in a single housing. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising an adaptor cord connected to the robot recectacle. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the robot interface is comprised of a software implemented by a digital circuit. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the robot receptacle can receive adaptor cords for a plurality of robot types. 23. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: power means for welding power; receptacle means for receiving a cord connected to a robot; control means for receiving external control and for controlling the power means, operatively connected to the power means; and interface means for interfacing with and understanding a robot controller, connected to the receptacle means; wherein the receptacle means, interface means, controller means and power means are disposed in a single housing. 24. The system of claim 23 further comprising a cord means for connecting the receptacle means to a robot controller. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein the interface means includes means for executing a software program. 26. The system of claim 23, wherein the receptacle means can receive cords means used with a plurality of robot types. 27. A method of welding with a robotic welder comprising: providing power; receiving a first end of a cord having a second end capable of being connected to a robot; externally controlling the power; interfacing with the robot using an interface and a controller disposed in a single housing. 28. The method of claim 27 further comprising a for connecting a second end of the cord to a robot. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein interfacing includes executing a software program. 30. The method of claim 27, further comprising selecting the cord from a plurality of cords used with a plurality of robot types. 