The present invention relates to a gripping and transport clamp mounted at an end of a robotic arm. The clamp has a support member mounted at the end of the robotic arm and two lower pressing plates and one upper pressing plate mounted on the support member. A sensor is used to detect a reaction force being exerted on the first pressing plate upon displacement thereof. An actuator inserts the first lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped in response to a detection of the reaction force by the sensor. The second lower pressing plate under the first pressing plate moves between a retracted position and an extended position by means of an actuator mounted between the second lower pressing plate and the support member. It is also inserted under the object to be gripped. An actuator moves the upper pressing plate towards the object for gripping it between the plates. A controller receives detection signals from the sensor and operates the actuators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripping and transport clamp mounted at an end of a robotic arm being movable towards an object to be gripped, comprising: a support member mounted at the end of the robotic arm; a first lower pressing plate mounted on the support member, the first lower pressing plate being shaped for insertion under the object to be gripped; sensor means adapted for detecting a reaction force being exerted on the first pressing plate upon displacement thereof; first actuating means for inserting the first lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped in response to a detection of the reaction force by the sensor means; a second lower pressing plate mounted below the first lower pressing plate on the support member, the second lower pressing plate being movable between a retracted position and an extended position; second actuating means mounted between the second lower pressing plate and the support member for moving the second lower pressing plate between the retracted position and the extended position, thereby inserting the second lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped in response to the first lower pressing plate being inserted under the object to be gripped; an upper pressing plate mounted on the support member, the upper pressing plate being movable toward the object to be gripped between an open position and a gripping position; third actuating means mounted between the upper pressing plate and the support member for moving the upper pressing plate between the open position and the gripping position, thereby gripping the object between the upper and lower pressing plates; and control means for receiving detection signals from the sensor means and for operating the actuating means. 2. The clamp according to claim 1, further comprising discarding means for eliminating a separator positioned under the object to be gripped. 3. The clamp according to claim 1, wherein the first lower pressing plate is made of a thin and flexible metal plate. 4. The clamp according to claim 1, further comprising an optical sensor and a laser sensor for moving the end of the robotic arm in proximity with the object too be gripped. 5. The clamp according to claim 1, wherein the sensor means comprises a horizontal displacement sensor connected to the first actuating means for detecting an insertion of the first lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped. 6. The clamp according to claim 5, wherein the first actuator means comprises an actuator mounted between the first lower pressing plate and the support member for moving the first lower pressing plate between a retracted position and an extended position with the first lower pressing plate being inserted under the object to be gripped. 7. The clamp according to claim 6, wherein the actuator comprises a pneumatic cylinder and piston arrangement. 8. The clamp according to claim 1, wherein the sensor means comprises a tactile sensor connected to the first pressing plate for detecting a deformation of the first pressing plate in response to the first pressing plate touching a separator positioned under the object to be gripped. 9. The clamp according to claim 8, wherein the tactile sensor comprises an inductive proximity sensor. 10. The clamp according to claim 8, wherein the first actuator means comprises an actuator mounted between the first lower pressing plate and the support member for moving the first lower pressing plate between a retracted position and an extended position with the first lower pressing plate being inserted under the object to be gripped. 11. The clamp according to claim 10, wherein the actuator comprises a pneumatic cylinder and piston arrangement. 12. A method for gripping an object with a clamp mounted at an end of a robotic arm, the clamp having a first lower pressing plate and second lower pressing plate below the first lower pressing plate, and an upper pressing plate, the method comprising the steps of: sequentially moving the end of the robotic arm in horizontal step movements toward the object to be gripped and in vertical up and down step movements until the first pressing plate touches a separator positioned under the object to be gripped; inserting the first lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped; inserting the second lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped after the first lower pressing plate has been inserted under the object to be gripped; and lowering the upper pressing plate toward the object to be gripped, thereby gripping the object between the upper and lower pressing plates. 13. A method for gripping an object with a clamp mounted at an end of a robotic arm, the clamp having a first lower pressing plate and second lower pressing plate below the first lower pressing plate, and an upper pressing plate, the method comprising the steps of: moving the end of the robotic arm toward the object to be gripped until the first pressing plate is in proximity of the object to be gripped; partially inserting the first lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped; detecting if a reaction force exerted on the first lower pressing plate is below a predetermined threshold; further inserting the first lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped if the reaction force exerted on the first lower pressing plate is below the predetermined threshold; inserting the second lower pressing plate under the object to be gripped after the first lower pressing plate has been further inserted under the object to be gripped; and lowering the upper pressing plate toward the object to be gripped, thereby gripping the object between the upper and lower pressing plates. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising the step of detecting if a horizontal displacement of the first pressing plate is above a predetermined distance. 