A monolithic fuel cell is described which is made up of fuel passages and oxidizer passages, in the form of a monolithic block. The monolith is made from triplex layers of anode-electrolyte-cathode and a multifunctional substrate that provides interconnects between triplex layers, provides for gas diffusion and allows waste products to flow out through it to be extracted. Additionally, it provides current take-off where desired. The monolith may be a cube, a rectangular prism or a solid cylinder, made of layers of different materials with different design patterns. Also detailed is a low cost, high-speed fabrication method for manufacture of a monolithic block of fuel cells, using computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing to send instructions to a process management controller. The controller selects materials and defines their preparation and then sends these materials to robotic fabrication stations, which are also programmed by the controller. In this manner, sequential layers of material are applied to a substrate in a continuous process until a complete three-dimensional monolithic fuel cell is formed.
Claims I claim: 1. A monolithic fuel cell, comprising: a) a plurality of triplex anode layer-electrolyte layer-cathode layer sandwiches, said triplex sandwiches further comprising a plurality of anode layers, a plurality of cathode layers, and a plurality of electrolyte layers; and b) a plurality of substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs, further comprising a plurality of fuel passages and a plurality of oxidizer passages, said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs comprising a substrate means for providing electrical interconnection between adjacent anode and cathode layers, providing gas diffusion, and providing a flow field for reaction by-products, said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs being interposed between said anodes and cathodes and containing said fuel and oxidizer passages, wherein said anode layers and said cathode layers are made from a mixture comprising a porous conductive polymer doped with nano-scale catalyst and carbon particles. 2. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein the shape of said monolithic fuel cell is selected from a group consisting of a cube, a rectangular prism and a solid cylinder. 3. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs ate comprised of at least one material. 4. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs comprise a porous metal ceramic material. 5. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs are comprised of walls and channels within said walls. 6. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said catalyst is platinum of approximately 2 nm particle size. 7. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said carbon is approximately 10 nm particle size. 8. A monolithic fuel cell, comprising: a) a plurality of triplex anode layer-electrolyte layer-cathode layer sandwiches, said triplex sandwiches further comprising a plurality of anode layers, a plurality of cathode layers, and a plurality of electrolyte layers; and b) a plurality of substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs, further comprising a plurality of fuel passages and a plurality of oxidizer passages, said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs comprising a substrate means for providing electrical interconnection between adjacent anode and cathode layers, providing gas diffusion, and providing a flow field for reaction by-products, said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs being interposed between said anodes and cathodes and containing said fuel and oxidizer passages, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs are comprised of a porous conductive polymer doped with graphite. 9. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 8, wherein said porous conductive polymer is polypropylene. 10. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte layers are selected from a group consisting of proton conductive polymers and exchange polymers. 11. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte layers comprise a perfluorinated polymer. 12. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs are deposited from a slurry. 13. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layer constructs are deposited by a pasting process. 14. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said cathode layers comprise lanthanum strontium manganese trioxide, a binder, and a solvent. 15. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 14, wherein said solvent is terpineol. 16. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 14, wherein said binder is ethyl cellulose. 17. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said anode layers comprise a powder mixture of nickel doped yttria-stabilized zirconia, a solvent, and a binder. 18. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 17, wherein said solvent is terpineol. 19. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 17, wherein said binder is ethyl cellulose. 20. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said electrolyte layers are comprised of yttria-stabilized zirconia, a solvent, and a binder. 21. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 20, wherein said solvent is terpineol. 22. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 20, wherein said binder is ethyl cellulose. 23. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layers are comprised of a powdered material, a binder, and a solvent. 24. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 23, wherein said powdered material is selected from the group consisting of a mixture of a nickel-chromium alloy and yttria-stabilized zirconia, aluminum oxide, yttria-stabilized zirconia, calcia-stabilized zirconia and magnesium oxide. 25. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layers are made by selective laser sintering. 26. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 25, wherein the substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layers are sintered at a temperature between approximately 800.degree. C. and approximately 900.degree. C. 27. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layers are made by selective curing. 28. The monolithic fuel call of claim 1, further characterized by being fabricated from a manufacturing process selected from a group consisting of selective lamination, slurry pasting, selective thin film deposition, selective curing, and selective laser sintering. 29. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 28, wherein said selective thin film deposition is selected from the group consisting of pressing, extrusion, spraying, printing, and injection. 30. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 1, wherein said anode, electrolyte, cathode and substrate interconnect gas diffusion flow field layers comprise a powder mixture of metal ceramic compound, a solvent, and a binder. 31. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 30, wherein said solvent is selected from a group consisting of terpineol, water, ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, tetraethylene glycol, poly(ethylene glycol), glycerine, dimethyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, octyl phthalate, benzyl butyl phthalate, and diethyloxalate. 32. The monolithic fuel cell of claim 30, wherein said binder is selected from a group consisting of ethyl cellulose, polyvinyl butyral, methacrylate solution, methacrylate emulsion, ammonium polyacrylate, alginates, and gums. 