Integrated systems, apparatus, software, and methods for performing biochemical analysis, including DNA sequencing, genomic screening, purification of nucleic acids and other biological components and drug screening are provided. Microfluidic devices, systems and methods for using these devices and systems for performing a wide variety of fluid operations are provided. The devices and systems of are used in performing fluid operations which require a large number of iterative, successive or parallel fluid manipulations, in a microscale, or sealed and readily automated format.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides dried on one or more reagent storage substrates, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; and, a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the nucleic acid sample, wherein the material transport system accesses the one or more reagent storage substrate to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the nucleic acid sample. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of oligonucleotides comprises at least 90% of all possible n-mers for length n. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein n is 5. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein n is 6. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein n is between 15 and 20. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein n is less than 15. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of oligonucleotides comprise at least one oligonucleotide that is complementary to the sample nucleic acid. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of oligonucleotides comprises a plurality of oligonucleotides that are complementary to the sample nucleic acid, wherein the plurality of oligonucleotides are contiguously complementary to one or more subsequence of the sample nucleic acid. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of oligonucleotides comprise one or more oligonucleotides that hybridizes to one or more SNP in the sample nucleic acid. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of oligonucleotides comprises one or more oligonucleotide that hybridizes to one or more subsequence in the sample nucleic acid that flanks a SNP in the sample nucleic acid. 11. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a molecular beacon which hybridizes to a SNP in the sample nucleic acid. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample nucleic acid is an amplified nucleic acid. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the material transport system comprises a body structure comprising a plurality of microchannels fabricated therein. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the material transport system comprises a substrate comprising a plurality of microchannels fabricated therein, wherein the microchannels are machined, etched, or printed in or on the substrate. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the material transport system comprises one or more electrokinetic, electroosmotic or electrophoretic flow control element. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the material transport system comprises one or more pump. 17. The system of claim 1, comprising one or more microfluidic channel and a fluidic interface coupling the microfluidic channel to the oligonucleotide set or to one or more additional reagents. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the fluidic interface comprises one or more capillaries, channels, pins, pipettors, or electropipettors. 19. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a microwell plate comprising the set of oligonucleotides and a substrate comprising at least one microchannel in or one the substrate, the material transport system comprising a capillary channel that extends outward from the substrate, wherein, during operation of the system, the capillary channel is contacted to one or more well of the microwell plate, thereby permitting the material transport system to draw one or more oligonucleotide from the microwell plate into the microchannel. 20. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a reagent substrate comprising the set of oligonucleotides in dried form on the reagent substrate and a microfluidic substrate comprising at least one microchannel in or on the microfluidic substrate, the material transport system comprising a capillary channel that extends outward from the substrate, wherein, during operation of the system, the capillary channel expels fluid from the tip of the capillary channel onto one or more oligonucleotide on the reagent substrate, thereby solubilizing the oligonucleotide and draws the resulting solubilized oligonucleotide into the capillary channel, thereby permitting the material transport system to draw one or more oligonucleotide from the reagent substrate into the microchannel. 21. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a polymerase. 22. The system of claim 21, where, during operation of the system, at least one of the oligonucleotides is hybridized to the sample nucleic acid, wherein the polymerase extends the oligonucleotide using the sample nucleic acid as a template. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein at least one of the oligonucleotides is hybridized to the sample nucleic acid, wherein the polymerase extends the sample nucleic acid in one or more polymerase chain reaction directed by the system. 24. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a ligase. 25. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a ligase, which ligase ligates one or more members of the set of oligonucleotides, which oligonucleotides are ligated while hybridized to the sample nucleic acid. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the oligonucleotides are ligated in one or more LCR reaction. 27. A microfluidic system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and a temperature control element, which element is configured to direct the system to thermocycle the oligonucleotides or the sample nucleic acid, or both. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the material transport system comprises a body structure comprising a plurality of microchannels fabricated therein, wherein one or more of the microchannels is operably coupled to the temperature control element, which control element controllably heats the one or more microchannels. 29. the system of claim 1, further comprising one or more nucleic acid sequencing or PCR reagents. 30. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detector, which detector is configured to detect hybridization of one or more oligonucleotide to the sample nucleic acid, ligase-mediated extension of one or more oligonucleotide hybridized to the sample nucleic acid, or polymerase-mediated extension of one or more oligonucleotide hybridized to the sample nucleic acid. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the detector directly detects an amplified product of the hybridization. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the detector directly detects the amplified product by detecting competitive hybridization of one or more of the oligonucleotides in the oligonucleotide set with the sample nucleic acid. 33. The system of claim 30, wherein the detector is configured for fluorescence polarization spectroscopy. 34. The system of claim 30, wherein detecting hybridization comprises determining a sequence of the sample nucleic acid. 35. The system of claim 34 further comprising a computer, which computer is operably coupled to the detector. 36. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the computer converts one or more signals from the detector into one or more nucleic acid sequences. 37. A system, comprising: a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; a sample nucleic acid; a material transport system configured to flow members of the set of oligonucleotides into contact with the sample nucleic acid; and one or more microchannels coupled to the material transport system and one or more DNA size-separation matrices in the one or more microchannels. 38. A method of detecting a nucleic acid in a microfluidic system, the method comprising: providing a set of oligonucleotides dried on one or more reagent storage substrates, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; providing a sample nucleic acid; flowing at least one oligonucleotide member of the set into contact with the sample nucleic acid; hybridizing the at least one oligonucleotide member and the sample nucleic acid; and, detecting hybridization of the oligonucleotide member to the sample nucleic acid, thereby determining a sequence of nucleotides of the sample nucleic acid. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein providing the set of oligonucleotides comprises synthesizing the set of oligonucleotides. 40. The method of claim 38, wherein providing the set of oligonucleotides comprises providing at least 90% of all possible oligonucleotides for a length n. 41. The method of claim 38, wherein n is 5. 42. The method of claim 38, wherein n is 6. 43. The method of claim 38, wherein n is between 15 and 20. 44. The method of claim 38, wherein n is less than 15. 45. The method of claim 38, wherein providing the sample nucleic acid comprises performing one or more amplification reactions to produce the sample nucleic acid. 46. A method of detecting a nucleic acid in a microfluidic system, the method comprising: providing a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; performing one or more amplification reaction to produce a sample nucleic acid; flowing at least one oligonucleotide member of the set into contact with the sample nucleic acid; hybridizing the at least one oligonucleotide member and the sample nucleic acid; and detecting hybridization of the oligonucleotide member to the sample nucleic acid, thereby determining a sequence of nucleotides of the sample nucleic acid, wherein the one or more amplification reaction comprises a ligase-mediated amplification reaction. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the ligase-mediated amplification reaction comprises a ligase chain reaction (LCR). 48. The method of claim 45, wherein the one or more amplification reaction comprises a polymerase-mediated amplification reaction. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the polymerase-mediated amplification reaction comprises a polymerase chain reaction (PCR). 50. The method of claim 38, wherein flowing the at least one oligonucleotide member of the set into contact with the sample nucleic acid comprises contacting the at least one oligonucleotide member to the sample nucleic acid in a microscale channel. 51. The method of claim 38, wherein hybridizing the at least one oligonucleotide member of the set into contact with the sample nucleic acid comprises contacting the at least one oligonucleotide member to the sample nucleic acid in a microscale channel under conditions that permit hybridization of the member and the sample nucleic acid. 52. The method of claim 38, wherein hybridization of the oligonucleotide member comprises direct detection of the hybridization of the oligonucleotide member and the sample nucleic acid. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the direct detection comprises differentially labeled competitive probe hybridization, molecular beacon detection, single nucleotide polymerase extension, or fluorescence polarization. 54. The method of claim 38, wherein detecting a hybridization comprises performing one or more sequencing reactions, whereby a sequence of at least a portion of the sample nucleic acid is determined. 55. A method of detecting a nucleic acid in a microfluidic system, the method comprising: providing a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; providing a sample nucleic acid; flowing at least one oligonucleotide member of the set into contact with the sample nucleic acid; hybridizing the at least one oligonucleotide member and the sample nucleic acid; and detecting hybridization of the oligonucleotide member to the sample nucleic acid, thereby determining a sequence of nucleotides of the sample nucleic acid, wherein detecting hybridization comprises performing one or more extension reaction by extending the hybridized oligonucleotide member and detecting the resulting extension product. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein the extension reaction comprises one or more dideoxy sequencing reactions. 57. The method of claim 55, wherein detecting the extension product comprises separating the extension product from one or more additional component by size. 58. A method of detecting a nucleic acid in a microfluidic system, the method comprising: providing a set of oligonucleotides, the set comprising at least 70% of all possible n-mers for a length n, wherein n is at least 4; providing a sample nucleic acid; flowing at least one oligonucleotide member of the set into contact with the sample nucleic acid; hybridizing the at least one oligonucleotide member and the sample nucleic acid; and detecting hybridization of the oligonucleotide member to the sample nucleic acid, thereby determining a sequence of nucleotides of the sample nucleic acid, wherein detecting hybridization comprises amplifying the sample nucleic acid by extending the oligonucleotide member with a polymerase in one or more PCR or LCR reaction. 59. The method of claim 54, further comprising selecting one or more additional member of the set for hybridization to the sample nucleic acid based upon the sequence hybridizing the one or more additional member to the sample nucleic acid. 60. The method of claim 59, comprising extending the one or more additional member while hybridized to the sample nucleic acid with a polymerase or a ligase. 61. The method of claim 38, comprising heating the at least one oligonucleotide member and sample nucleic acid, before, during or after hybridization of the at least one oligonucleotide member and sample nucleic acid. 