A data processing device comprising a storage circuit accessible by assertion of addresses, an arithmetic logic unit connected to the storage circuit operative to perform an arithmetic operation on data received by the arithmetic unit. Further included is an address register for storing an initial address word indicative of a storage circuit address. An instruction decode and control unit, connected to the storage circuit and having an instruction register operative to hold a program instruction is operative to decode the program instruction into control signals to control the operations of the data processing device and location codes to control data transfers according to predetermined sections of the program instruction wherein at least one of the sections includes a location section selecting the address register and a displacement section containing address data. Further included is an address generating unit connected to the storage circuit, the instruction register, and the address register responsive to the control signals from the instruction decode and control unit combining the initial address word from the address register and the address data from the displacement section to generate a storage circuit address. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing system comprising: A. a memory having a plurality of addressable memory locations containing instructions and operands; and B. a data processing device coupled to the memory, the data processing device including: i. an arithmetic logic unit arranged to obtain a result from an operation on operands applied to said arithmetic logic unit; ii. a register file coupled to the arithmetic logic unit and receiving the result of the operation performed in the arithmetic and logic unit; iii. an address register file; iv. an instruction register coupled to the memory and operative to hold a program instruction; and v. an instruction unit coupled to the register file, the address register file and the arithmetic logic unit, the instruction unit including circuits producing control signals to control the operations of the data processing device in response to decoding a program instruction contained in the instruction register, the instruction unit including operation circuits responsive to an operation field in an instruction, destination circuits responsive to a destination field in the instruction, first operand circuits responsive to a first operand field in the instruction, and second operand circuits responsive to a second operand field in the instruction: a. the operation circuits producing operation control signals to control operation of the arithmetic logic unit; b. the destination circuits producing destination control signals to select a register in the register file to contain a result; c. the first operand circuits producing first operand control signals selecting one of: the contents of a register in the register file, and the contents of a first memory location addressed by a first displacement value combined with an address in a first register in the address register file; and d. the second operand circuits producing second operand control signals selecting one of: immediate data contained in the second operand field, and the contents of a second memory location addressed by a second displacement value to be combined with an address in a second register in the address register file. 2. The system of claim 1 including a semiconductor integrated circuit carrying the memory and the data processing device. 3. The system of claim 1 including a first auxiliary arithmetic logic unit coupled to the instruction unit, the address register file and the memory, the first auxiliary arithmetic logic unit receiving the first operand control signals to combine the first displacement value with the address in the first register in the address register file to produce the address of the first memory location, and a second auxiliary arithmetic logic unit coupled to the instruction unit, the address register file and the memory, the second auxiliary arithmetic logic unit receiving the second operand control signals to combine the second displacement value with the address in the second register in the address register file to produce the address of the second memory location. 4. The system of claim 3 including a semiconductor integrated circuit carrying the memory and the data processing device. 5. The system of claim 3 including a first set of address leads between the first auxiliary arithmetic logic unit and the memory, and a second set of address leads between the second auxiliary arithmetic logic unit and the memory, the second set of address leads being separate from the first set of address leads. 6. The system of claim 1 in which the instruction unit circuits producing control signals to control the operations of the data processing device in response to decoding a program instruction of 32 bits. 7. A data processing system comprising: A. a memory having a plurality of addressable memory locations containing instructions and operands; and B. a data processing device coupled to the memory, the data processing device including: i. an arithmetic logic unit arranged to obtain a result from an operation on operands applied to said arithmetic logic unit; ii. a register file coupled to the arithmetic logic unit and receiving the result of the operation performed in the arithmetic and logic unit; iii. an address register file; iv. an instruction register coupled to the memory and operative to hold a program instruction; and v. an instruction unit coupled to the register file, the address register file and the arithmetic logic unit, the instruction unit including circuits producing control signals to control the operations of the data processing device in response to decoding a program instruction contained in the instruction register, the instruction unit including operation circuits responsive to an operation field in an instruction, destination circuits responsive to a destination field in the instruction, first operand circuits responsive to a first operand field in the instruction, and second operand circuits responsive to a second operand field in the instruction, the first operand field being separate from the second operand field: a. the operation circuits producing operation control signals to control operation of the arithmetic logic unit; b. the destination circuits producing destination control signals to select a register in the register file to contain a result; c. the first and second operand circuits producing respective first and second operand control signals selecting one of: (i.) the contents of a register in the register file and immediate data contained in an operand field; (ii.) the contents of a register in the register file and the contents of a memory location addressed by a displacement value combined with an address in a register in the address register file; (iii.) the contents of a memory location addressed by a in the address register file and immediate data contained in an displacement value to be combined with an address in a register operand field; and (iv.) the contents of one memory location addressed by one displacement value to be combined with an address in one register in the address register file and the contents of another memory location addressed by another displacement value to be combined with an address in another register in the address register file. 8. The system of claim 7 including a semiconductor integrated circuit carrying the memory and the data processing device. 9. The system of claim 7 in which the instruction unit circuits producing control signals to control the operations of the data processing device in response to decoding a program instruction of 32 bits. 10. A data processing system comprising: A. a memory having a plurality of addressable memory locations containing instructions and operands; and B. a data processing device coupled to the memory, the data processing device including: i. an arithmetic logic unit arranged to obtain a result from an operation on operands applied to said arithmetic logic unit; ii. a register file coupled to the arithmetic logic unit and receiving the result of the operation performed in the arithmetic and logic unit; iii. an address register file; iv. an instruction register coupled to the memory and operative to hold a program instruction; and v. an instruction unit coupled to the register file, the address register file and the arithmetic logic unit, the instruction unit including means producing control signals to control the operations of the data processing device in response to decoding a program instruction contained in the instruction register, the instruction unit including operation means responsive to an operation field in an instruction, destination means responsive to a destination field in the instruction, first operand means responsive to a first operand field in the instruction, and second operand means responsive to a second operand field in the instruction: a. the operation means producing operation control signals to control operation of the arithmetic logic unit; b. the destination means producing destination control signals to select a register in the register file to contain a result; c. the first operand means producing first operand control signals selecting one of: the contents of a register in the register file, and the contents of a first memory location addressed by a first displacement value combined with an address in a first register in the address register file; and d. the second operand means producing second operand control signals selecting one of: immediate data contained in the second operand field, and the contents of a second memory location addressed by a second displacement value to be combined with an address in a second register in the address register file. 11. The system of claim 10 including a semiconductor integrated circuit carrying the memory and the data processing device. 12. The system of claim 10 in which the instruction unit means producing control signals to control the operations of the data processing device in response to decoding a program instruction of 32 bits. 