A haptic feedback control device, such as a handheld remote control or handheld game controller, for controlling a graphical object within a graphical display and for outputting forces to a user. A housing includes a button, wherein the user engages the button with a finger. The button is depressible along a degree of freedom by the user. An actuator applies forces to the user through the button along the degree of freedom. A sensor detects displacement of the button along the degree of freedom when the button is depressed by the user. A processor, local to the device, controls the actuator to generate the forces upon the button in the degree of freedom to provide a tactile sensation to the user contacting the button.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A handheld remote control for controlling a device having a graphical object within a graphical display and for outputting forces to a user of the handheld remote control, the handheld remote control comprising: a housing including at least one button, wherein said user engages said button with a finger of said user for the purpose of accessing a function of said device, said button being depressable along a degree of freedom; an actuator coupled to said button, said actuator operative to apply forces in said degree of freedom of said button; a sensor for detecting displacement of said button along said degree of freedom when said button is depressed by said user, said sensor providing an output indicative of said user's engagement, said output being transmitted to said device; and control circuitry, local to said handheld remote control, controlling said actuator to generate said forces, said forces dependant on said function accessed by said user, thereby providing a tactile sensation to said user engaging said button. 2. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator is a voice coil. 3. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 2 wherein a coil is coupled to said button and moves with said button along said degree of freedom, and wherein a magnet is fixed to said housing. 4. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 2 wherein a magnet is fixed to said botton and moves with said button along said degree of freedom, and wherein a coil is fixed to said housing. 5. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said sensor is an analog sensor that provides data indicating a degree of displacement of said button along said degree of freedom. 6. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said forces include vibratory forces that are produced as a function of time. 7. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said forces include spring forces that are produced as a function of said button. 8. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said forces include damping forces that are produced as a function of velocity of said button. 9. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 further comprising a flexure coupling said button to said housing. 10. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said button is integrated as part of a multi-directional pad for controlling said graphical object in a plurality of directions. 11. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said graphical display is a web page and wherein tactile sensations inform the user of interactions with said web page. 12. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 further comprising a trackball coupled to said housing that enables said user to control the position of a cursor upon said display in a plurality of directions. 13. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 further comprising a joystick provided on said housing and allowing the user to control the motion of said graphical object in a plurality of directions. 14. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said graphical object is a cursor and wherein said tactile sensations aid the user in the selection of functions with said cursor upon said graphical display. 15. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 wherein said processor communicates with a host computer by a wireless transmission means, reporting data indicative of the displacement of said button. 16. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 15 wherein said processor receives force information from said host computer over said wireless transmission means. 17. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 further including a second actuator imparting a vibration upon said housing. 18. A handheld remote control as recited in claim 1 further including an isometric controller enabling said user to control the position of a cursor upon said display. 19. A handheld game controller for controlling a game device having a graphical object within a graphical display and for outputting forces to a user of the handheld game controller, the handheld game controller comprising: a housing including at least one button, wherein the user engages said button with a finger of said user for the purposes of accessing a function of said game device, said button being moveable by said user to a plurality of positions along a degree of freedom; an actuator coupled to said button, said actuator operative to apply forces in said degree of freedom of said button; a sensor for detecting displacement of said button along said degree of freedom when said button is depressed by said user, said sensor providing an output indicative of said user's engagement, said output being transmitted to said device; and a processor, local to said handheld game controller, controlling said actuator to generate said forces, said forces dependant on said function accessed by said user, thereby providing a tactile sensation to said user engaging said button. 20. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said actuator is a voice coil. 21. A handheld hame controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said sensor is an analog sensor that provides data indicating a degree of displacement of said button along said degree of freedom. 22. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said forces include vibratory forces that are produced as a function of time. 23. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said forces include spring forces that are produced as a function of displacement of said button. 24. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said forces include damping forces that are produced as a function of velocity of said button. 25. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 further comprising a flexure coupling said button to said housing. 26. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said button is integrated as part of a multi-directional pad for controlling said graphical object in a plurality of directions. 27. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 further comprising a joystick provided on said housing and allowing the user to control the motion of said graphical object in a plurality of directions. 28. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said processor communicates with a host computer by a wireless transmission means, reporting data indicative of the displacement of said button. 29. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said button is coupled to a pivoting member, wherein said forces are rotary forces to pivot said pivoting member. 30. A handheld game controller as recited in claim 19 wherein said housing includes a stationary portion and a moving portion, wherein a moving portion actuator is coupled to said moving portion and outputs forces on said moving portion to cause said moving portion to move relative to said stationary portion, wherein said user contacts said moving portion to feel a haptic sensation. 31. A handheld remote control for controlling a device having a graphical object within a graphical display and for outputting forces to a user of the handheld remote control, the handheld remote control comprising: a housing including at least one button means, wherein said user engages said button means with a finger of said user for the purpose of accessing one of a selection of functions of said device, said button being depressible along a degree of freedom; means for applying forces in said degree of freedom of said button; means for sensing displacement of said button along said degree of freedom when said button is depressed by said user, said means for sensing providing an output indicative of said user's engagement, said output being transmitted to said device; and processor means, local to said handheld remote control, for controlling said means for applying forces to generate said forces, said forces dependant on said one of a selection of functions accessed by said user, thereby providing a tactile sensation to said user engaging said button means. 