A method of stripping coating from a portion of a coated surface of a component. The method includes fastening a mask sheet to the component over a region adjacent the portion of the coated surface. The mask sheet has a contour generally corresponding to a contour of the surface of the component. A high pressure fluid jet is sprayed from a spray head toward the portion of the coated surface after the mask sheet is fastened to the component to strip the coating from the portion of the surface. After the coating is stripped from the portion of the surface, the mask sheet is removed from the component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for masking a surface of a component to permit selective stripping of coating therefrom, said apparatus comprising: a flexible sheet sized and shaped for positioning over a region of the surface of the component adjacent a portion of the coated surface to be stripped; a clamp adapted for forming the flexible sheet to a non-planar contour generally corresponding to a contour of the surface of the component and for holding the sheet in position adjacent the surface of the component; and a fastener for fastening the clamp to at least one of the surface of the component and the sheet. 2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the clamp comprises an elongate body sized for spanning at least a portion of the sheet. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the fastener includes a bolt threaded through the clamp. 4. Apparatus for masking a surface of a component to permit selective stripping of coating therefrom, said apparatus comprising: a flexible sheet sized and shaped for positioning over a region of the surface of the component adjacent a portion of the coated surface to be stripped; a clamp for forming the flexible sheet to a contour generally corresponding to a contour of the surface of the component and for holding the sheet in position adjacent the surface of the component, the clamp comprising a plurality of jack screws threaded through the body for biasing the sheet toward the surface of the component; and a fastener for fastening the clamp to at least one of the surface of the component and the sheet. 5. Apparatus for masking a surface of a component to permit selective stripping of coating therefrom, said apparatus comprising: means for fastening a mask sheet to the component over a region adjacent said portion of the coated surface, said mask sheet having a contour generally corresponding to a contour of the surface of the component; means for spraying a high pressure fluid jet from a spray head toward the portion of the coated surface after the mask sheet is fastened to the component to strip the coating from the portion of the surface; and means for removing the mask sheet from the component after the coating is stripped from the portion of the surface. 