A system and method for managing, switching, and reconfiguring physical connections of telecommunications services that provides improved cost and timeliness. The method comprises the steps of: providing telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber via a cross-connect switch connected to a telecommunications network, the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber connected to a first telecommunications service; receiving, at a network operations center connected to the cross connect switch, an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service; in response to receiving, at the network operations center, an indication that the first subscriber has changed service, transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to switch the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service to a second service; and in response to receiving the command at the cross-connect switch, switching the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a second telecommunications service.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing telecommunications service comprising the steps of: providing telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber via an automated, physical, metallic, matrix cross-connect switch connected to telecommunications network, the automated cross-connect switch remotely operable to break and establish physical connections under control by a processor, the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber physically connected to a first telecommunications service; receiving, at a network operations center remote from and communicatively connected to the automated cross connect switch, an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or hanged service; in response to receiving, at the network operations center, the indication that the first subscriber has changed service, transmitting a command to the automated cross connect witch to automatically switch the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a second telecommunications service; and in response to receiving the command at the automated cross-connect switch, automatically under control by a processor breaking the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the first telecommunications service and to establish a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the second telecommunications service. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the steps of: in response to receiving, at the network operations center, an indication that the first subscriber has terminated service, transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service; and in response to receiving the command at the cross-connect switch, switching out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located n a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the method further comprises the steps of: receiving, at the network operations center, an indication that a second subscriber has initiated service; in response to receiving the indication at the network operations center, transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to connect data processing equipment of the second subscriber to a new telecommunication service; and in response to receiving the command at the cross-connect switch, connecting the data processing equipment of second subscriber to the telecommunication service. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 10. A system for providing telecommunications service comprising: means for providing telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber connected to a first telecommunications service, the means for providing telecommunications service including an automated, physical, metallic, matrix cross-connect switch connected to a telecommunications network, the automated cross-connect switch remotely operable to break and establish physical connections under control by a processor; means for receiving indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service, the means or receiving remote from and communicatively connected to the means for providing telecommunications service; means for transmitting a command to the means for providing telecommunications service to automatically switch a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a second telecommunications service, the means operable in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has changed service; and means for automatically under control by a processor breaking the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the first telecommunications service and to establish a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the second telecommunications service, the means operable in response to receiving the command. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of the communications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the system further comprises: means for transmitting a command to means for providing telecommunications service switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service, the means operable in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has terminated service; and means for switching out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service, the means operable in response to receiving the command. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the system further comprises: means for receiving a indication that a second subscriber has initiated service; means for transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to connect data processing equipment of the second subscriber to a second service, the means operable in response to receiving the indication; and means for connecting the data processing equipment of second subscriber to the new telecommunication service, the means operable in response to receiving the command. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 19. A system for providing telecommunications service comprising: an automated, physical, metallic, matrix cross-connect switch connected to a telecommunications network, the automated cross-connect switch remotely operable to break and establish physical connections under control by a processor and to provide telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber physically connected to a first telecommunications service; and a network operations enter remote from and communicatively connected to the automated cross connect switch, operable to receive an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service and operable to, in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has changed service, transmit a command to the automated cross connect switch to automatically switch the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a second telecommunications service; and wherein the automate cross-connect switch is further operable to, in response to receiving the command, automatically under control by a processor break the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the first telecommunications service and to establish a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the second telecommunications service. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein: the network operations center is further operable to, in response to receiving an indication that t e first subscriber has terminated service, transmit a command to the cross connect switch to switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service; and the cross-connect switch is further operable to, in response to receiving the command, switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 25. The system of claim 22, wherein: the network operations center is further operable to receive an indication that a second subscriber has initiated service and operable to, in response to receiving the indication, transmit a command to the cross connect switch to connect data processing equipment of the second subscriber to a telecommunication service; and the cross-connect switch is further operable to connect the data processing equipment of second subscriber to the telecommunication service, in response to receiving the command. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality oft telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 