A method for determining an HLA genotype of a subject is disclosed. The method comprises (a) isolating template nucleic acid from the subject; (b) amplifying the template nucleic acid to generate sufficient product for each allele of at least one gene locus to be determined; (c) hybridizing the template nucleic acid with an immobilized array of capture oligonucleotides, each having a known nucleic acid sequence of an HLA allele; and (d) determining the particular capture oligonucleotide to which the template nucleic acid hybridizes, thereby determining the genotype of the subject. A number of additional methods that can eliminate or abbreviate additional steps are also described. Moreover, the present invention provides a method for determining tissue compatibility using the determined HLA genotype.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying an HLA genotype of a subject, the method comprising: (a) obtaining a sample comprising a template nucleic acid from said subject; (b) amplifying said template nucleic acid with a plurality of HLA allele-specific forward primers and HLA allele-specific reverse primers to form amplification products, wherein said forward primers or reverse primers comprise a detectable label; (c) hybridizing said amplification products with an HLA locus-specific capture oligonucleotide immobilized on a solid phase to form a plurality of detectable complexes, wherein the HLA locus-specific capture oligonucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO:277; and (d) detecting said detectable complexes to identify said HLA genotype of said subject. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said capture oligonucleotides further comprise a 5' amine group or a 5'(T)5-20 oligonucleotide sequence. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the HLA locus-specific capture oligonucleotide consists of SEQ ID NO:277. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said capture oligonucleotides further comprise a 5' amine group or a 5'(T)5-20 oligonucleotide sequence. 5. A method for identifying an HLA genotype of a subject, the method comprising: (a) obtaining a sample comprising a template nucleic acid from said subject; (b) amplifying said template nucleic acid with a plurality of HLA allele-specific forward primers and HLA allele-specific reverse primers to form amplification products, wherein said forward primers or reverse primers comprise a detectable label; (c) hybridizing said amplification products with an HLA locus-specific capture oligonucleotide to form a plurality of detectable complexes, wherein the HLA locus-specific capture oligonucleotide comprises SEQ ID NO:277; (d) immobilizing said detectable complexes on a solid phase; and (e) detecting said detectable complexes to identify said HLA genotype of said subject. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said capture oligonucleotides further comprise a 5' amine group or a 5'(T)5-20 oligonucleotide sequence. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the HLA locus-specific capture oligonucleotide consists of SEQ ID NO:277. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said capture oligonucleotides further comprise a 5' amine group or a 5'(T)5-20 oligonucleotide sequence. 