A buffer apparatus includes a vertically moving mechanism containing a plurality of horizontally moving mechanisms to store carriers and transfer carriers to and from a load port, and one or more buffer load ports adjacent to the buffer apparatus to charge and uncharge the buffer apparatus by means of a guided vehicle, an overhead vehicle, or a human. A buffer system includes a buffer apparatus and a processing system load port to transfer carriers from the buffer apparatus to a processing system load port. An arrayed buffer system includes a plurality of buffer systems where each buffer system interacts with an individual set of load ports or a pair of buffer systems interacts with a shared set of load ports. A combination of arrayed buffer systems includes a plurality of adjacent arrayed buffer systems capable of sharing a single, environmental front-end mechanism maintenance space and capable of being serviced from the front.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of first mechanisms capable of horizontally moving through a first distance; a second mechanism capable of moving vertically through a second distance, each first mechanism in the plurality being mounted on the second mechanism; and a frame comprising a foot on which the second mechanism is fixedly supported, the frame further comprising a shelf fixedly attached to the foot by a support, the shelf having three pins arranged to form a kinematic mount capable of capturing a carrier in a repeatable fashion, wherein the kinematic mount is horizontally separated from the foot by approximately the first distance and the kinematic mount is vertically separated from the foot by approximately the second distance. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each first mechanism comprises: a guide mechanism; a drive mechanism guided by the guide mechanism; and a carrier receiver mounted at an end of the drive mechanism. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the carrier receiver comprises a forked end effector. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vertically moving mechanism comprises a guide mechanism and a drive mechanism. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a kinematic mount attached to an upper surface of the shelf. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the foot comprises: a cleanroom floor-mounted part of a docking mechanism. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the foot comprises: slide mechanism including at least one item selected from a group consisting of casters and skids. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the foot comprises: at least one mechanism selected from a group consisting of a freewheeling mechanism and a driven wheeled mechanism. 9. A method of storing a plurality of carriers adjacent to a processing station, the method comprising: vertically moving a carrier to be included in a vertical stack of said plurality of carriers, from an overhead transport to an upper load port; horizontally transferring the carrier from upper load port to a column of space in a buffer apparatus adjacent to the processing station, thereby to form at least a portion of said vertical stack within said column of space; vertically moving said vertical stack of said plurality of carriers including said carrier at least within the column of space in said buffer apparatus; horizontally transferring the carrier from the column of space to a lower load port that is located vertically underneath the upper load port, thereby to remove the carrier from said vertical stack within said column of space in said buffer apparatus. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising: transferring another carrier from the lower load port to a personal guided vehicle (PGV), an automated guided vehicle (AGV), or a rail guided vehicle (RGV). 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the column of space is enclosed within a buffer apparatus, and the method further comprising: docking the buffer apparatus to the processing station; and servicing the buffer apparatus from the front while docked. 12. The method of claim 9 further comprising: opening the carrier at the lower port. 13. A system comprising: a box opener/loader having a load port; and an apparatus located adjacent to the box opener/loader, the buffer apparatus comprising a plurality of first mechanisms capable of horizontally moving through a first distance, a second mechanism supporting each first mechanism and capable of moving each first mechanism vertically through a second distance, the second mechanism being fixedly supported on a foot of the apparatus, the apparatus further comprising a first shelf fixedly attached to the foot by a support, the shelf having three pins arranged to form a kinematic mount capable of capturing a carrier in a repeatable fashion, wherein the kinematic mount is horizontally separated from the foot by approximately the first distance and the kinematic mount is vertically separated from the foot by approximately the second distance; wherein a transfer position for the apparatus is at a second shelf of the box opener/loader, and the second distance is larger than the vertical distance between the foot and the second shelf. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the buffer apparatus is placed adjacent to the box opener/loader such that said load port is the processing system load port and the buffer apparatus has an additional load port formed by the kinematic mount and located above the processing system load port. 15. The system of claim 13 wherein the load port is capable of receiving a carrier from and presenting a carrier to an overhead vehicle (OHV). 16. The system of claim 13 wherein the load port is capable of receiving a carrier from and presenting a carrier to a vehicle selected from a group consisting of a personal guided vehicle (PGV), an automated guided vehicle (AGV), and a rail guided vehicle (RGV). 17. A The system of claim 13 comprising a plurality of load ports capable of simultaneously receiving a carrier from and presenting a carrier to an overhead vehicle on said uppermost load port and to: a vehicle selected from a group consisting of a personal guided vehicle (PGV), an automated guided vehicle (AGV), and a rail guided vehicle (RGV). 