An assembly line control system, and more particularly, an automotive assembly line storage and lot controlled system is disclosed. A communications network is overlaid onto a manufacturing assembly line. The assembly line includes a number of readers and processing stations to determine and confirm the identity of vehicles passing proximate to the readers and processing stations, and the vehicles' build instructions, status, position, condition, defect and repair history, etc. This information is stored in a computer database. Based on the information stored about the vehicles, the status of inventories, production schedules and the like, a routing of the vehicles through the manufacturing process is determined and implemented. The assembly line incorporates various storage loop and shunting lanes so that members of a lot of vehicles, having similar build instructions, are more likely to be placed into contact with each other, reducing possible parts changeovers, meeting production schedules, accommodating a shortfall in parts availability, etc.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An assembly line for processing assemblies, said assemblies formed into lots, and each lot having a manufacturing priority, said assembly line comprising: a plurality of conveyors to move said assemblies from a first point to a second point; a plurality of switching points interconnecting said plurality of conveyors to form a plurality of paths from said first point to said second point, at least some of said plurality of paths conveying said assemblies to different sets of assembly line workstations; and a controller for controlling said plurality of switching points such that a lot of assemblies moves along a path to a set of assembly line workstations and reaches said second point according to the manufacturing priority of said lot and such that said assemblies of said lot are substantially contiguous upon reaching said second point, wherein said controller is for controlling such that a first lot of assemblies having a higher priority than a second lot of assemblies by-passes said second lot of assemblies. 2. The assembly line of claim 1 wherein said controller is also for controlling said plurality of conveyors. 3. The assembly line of claim 2 wherein said controller is in communication with said plurality of conveyors and said plurality of switching points and is adapted to determine a routing path for directing said assemblies of said lot along one of said plurality of paths between said first point and said second point. 4. The assembly line of claim 1 further comprising an assembly identifier for obtaining assembly identity information for a given assembly on a first conveyor of said plurality of conveyors, as said given assembly passes said assembly identifier, and transmitting said assembly identity information to said controller. 5. The assembly line of claim 4 wherein said assembly identifier comprises an optical reader. 6. The assembly line of claim 5 wherein said optical reader comprises a bar code reader. 7. The assembly line of claim 4 wherein said first conveyor is operable to transmit information relating to said first conveyor speed to said controller. 8. The assembly line of claim 7 wherein said controller is operable to track a location for said given assembly upon receipt of said assembly identity information and said first conveyor speed information. 9. The assembly line of claim 1, wherein said controller is for controlling such that any separated assembly of said first lot by-passes intervening assemblies of other lots to rejoin said first lot. 10. The assembly line of claim 1 wherein said assemblies are automotive assemblies. 11. The assembly line of claim 1 wherein said assembly line workstations are for inspection or repair of assemblies. 12. A method of operating an assembly line, where said assembly line includes a plurality of conveyors to move assemblies from a first point to a second point and a plurality of switching points interconnecting said plurality of conveyors to form a plurality of paths from said first point to said second point, at least some of said plurality of paths conveying said assemblies to different sets of assembly line workstations, said method comprising: determining a manufacturing priority of a lot of assemblies; and controlling said plurality of switching points such that said assemblies of said lot move along a path to a set of assembly line workstations and reach said second point according to said manufacturing priority of said lot and such that said assemblies of said lot are substantially contiguous upon reaching said second point, wherein said lot is a first lot and said first lot has a higher priority than a second lot, said method further comprising controlling such that said first lot by-passes said second lot. 13. The method of claim further comprising controlling said plurality of conveyors. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising controlling such that any separated assembly of said first lot by-passes intervening assemblies of other lots to rejoin said first lot. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said assemblies are automotive assemblies. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein said assembly line workstations are for inspection or repair of assemblies. 