A method and device of treating an irregularly shaped article to prepare the article for painting is provided. The device includes a burner which can produce an adjustable flame tongue which can fit into crevices, openings and other irregular topographical features of an item to be painted or otherwise coated. The burner device further provides means to apply a grafting chemical on a freshly oxidized surface. Further, the invention provides means to colorize treated objects so that they may be recognized as having been treated. In another embodiment, the grafting chemicals may be enhanced with electrolytic solutions such that electrostatic methods of painting may be subsequently employed on the item. In an alternate embodiment, the burner is adapted to spray a powder inside of a generally enclosed flame, and is used in conjunction with chop guns to manufacture glass or carbon fiber preforms. In a preferred embodiment all of the main systems of the present invention are provided with redundancies that allow the continuous operation of the device. Further, the device provides means to run and modify the process either locally or by remote communication means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for flame treating or manufacturing a product, comprising the steps of: detachably coupling a flame jet forming ring to a body portion of a gas burner assembly, said flame jet forming ring generally fully enclosing a chamber that is at least partially defined within said body portion, said gas burner assembly including an air/gas inlet that communicates with said chamber, said flame jet forming ring including at least one port defined therein that communicates with said chamber; mounting said gas burner assembly on an end of arm tool; feeding an air/gas mixture into said chamber through said air/gas inlet to cause said air/gas mixture to be generally evenly distributed throughout said chamber and said at least one port, and to cause substantially all of said air/gas mixture to flow from said air/gas inlet to ambient atmosphere through said chamber and said at least one port; igniting said air/gas mixture to create a generally enclosed flame that projects from said gas burner assembly; moving said gas burner assembly with respect to a substrate while directing said generally enclosed flame towards the substrate, said flame jet forming ring being detachable from said body portion without removing said gas burner assembly from said end of arm tool. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one port is generally parallel with respect to said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one port is generally circular in shape. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one port is generally concentric with said longitudinal axis of said body portion. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one port comprises two or more individual flame jet ports each of which communicates with said chamber when said flame jet forming ring is attached to said body portion. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said gas burner assembly further comprises a discharge tube having an inlet and an outlet, said outlet being generally peripherally surrounded by said at least one port. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said discharge tube is generally concentric with a longitudinal axis of said body portion. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein said discharge tube is generally parallel to a longitudinal axis of said body portion. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of projecting an inert gas from the outlet of said discharge tube at various velocities as desired to cause the geometry of said generally enclosed flame to be changed in proportion to the velocity of the inert gas that is projected from said discharge tube. 10. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of spraying a mixture from the outlet of said discharge tube as desired while said generally enclosed flame is projected from said gas burner assembly. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said mixture comprises a powder, and wherein said method further comprises the step of propelling a slurry towards the surface of said substrate while spraying said powder from said discharge tube and while projecting said generally enclosed flame from said at least one flame jet. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said slurry comprises a chopped fiberglass slurry. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said powder comprises a material selected from a group consisting of: a polyester resin and/or an epoxy resin. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said mixture comprises a liquid mixture that includes a quantity of a coupling agent at least a portion of which is chemically bonded onto an oxidized surface of a product that is created by flame treating at least a portion of a surface of the product. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said liquid mixture further includes a quantity of a colorizing agent that causes a treated surface of the product to be a different color after it has been flame treated and sprayed with said coupling agent and said colorizing agent. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said liquid mixture further includes a quantity of electrolytes to facilitate electrostatic painting of a treated surface of the product after it has been flame treated and sprayed with said coupling agent and said electrolytes. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein said coupling agent comprises a multi-functional organic compound. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said multi-functional organic compound comprises polyethyline imine. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein gas burner assembly further comprises a ring member for detachably coupling said flame jet fanning ring to said body portion. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein both of said ring member and said body portion include threads that correspond to each other to allow said ring member to couple said flame jet forming ring onto said body portion. 