To provide versatile radioactive implants and methods of radiation therapy, plating methods such sputtering, as are used to coat single elements such as microspheres, wires and ribbons with radioactive metals, protective layers and identification layers. The resulting solid, radioactive, multilayered seamless elements are implanted individually or combined in intercavity applicators, with fabrics and in ribbons. Because they have selected half-lives and intensities, they provide flexibility in treatment, permitting low intensity or high intensity treatment using temporary or permanent implants and implants with high intensity or low intensity or contoured intensity to permit different therapies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of producing multilayer coats of a microsphere for mass-production of multilayer one-piece seamless radioactive seeds, comprising the steps of: coating a central sphere having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter with a plurality of layers in succession; one of which is a radioactive layer that contains a therapeutic amount of radioactivity, one of which is a diffusion barrier layer that provides a diffusion barrier coat, and one of which is a protective layer that provides an outer protective coat no more than 0.1 millimeters thick; the step of coating a central sphere having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter with a plurality of layers in succession including the substeps of applying radioactive material to form said radioactive layer, applying said diffusion layer, applying said protective layer and applying a material that reacts chemically with said radioactive material in the radioactive layer. 2. A manufacturing process according to claim 1 in which at least one of the substeps of applying comprises applying the layer by electronic means, whereby the need for assembly of separate seed parts and welding of titanium tubing containing the radioactive material are eliminated. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1 in which the substep of applying a material that reacts chemically includes the step of applying silver in conjunction with the application of the radioactive material whereby the silver and the radioactive material interact. 4. A method of producing multilayer coats of a microsphere for mass-production of multilayer one-piece seamless radioactive seeds in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the steps of: selecting at least two levels of radioactivity energy and half-lives; selecting radioactive materials for the target and the operating conditions of a vacuum sputtering or plasma deposition apparatus corresponding to the radioactivity and half-life selected; and sputtering or plasma deposition of the coats onto a central sphere from the selected target material and with the selected operating conditions. 5. A method for producing coats for multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 4 wherein dc sputtering is used to produce radioactive microspherical coat from a radioactive metal target. 6. A method in accordance with claim 4 in which the step of sputtering or plasma deposition includes the steps of: laminating coats of low boiling point elements that are likely to vacuum weld with high boiling point elements that are unlikely to vacuum weld; levitating microspheres; and biasing a levitating bouncing pan that is levitating the microspheres with an electric charge, whereby the tendency of the microspheres to vacuum weld together is reduced. 7. A method according to claim 6 in which the step of sputtering or plasma deposition includes the steps of: introducing the microspheres into a vacuum chamber; and applying material under vacuum pressure to the microspheres while the microspheres are levitated. 8. A method according to claim 7 in which the step of levitating microspheres includes the step of vibrating the bouncing pan by vibrating the bouncing pan at an ultrasonic frequency between 1 and 10 percent of a resonant frequency of the bouncing pan. 9. A method of making radioactive microspheres in a plurality of application steps comprising the steps of: forming microspheres having a diameter less than 0.1 micron: applying an isotope to the microspheres whereby the microspheres are radioactive; and applying one or more protective coats to protect the microspheres with no substantial voids between the microspheres and the protective coats and no end welds. 10. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying the isotope includes the step of applying silver in conjunction with the application of the isotope whereby the silver and the isotope interact. 11. A method in accordance with claim 9 further including the steps of applying a central spherical diffusion barrier coat and an optional special purpose spherical coat designed to enhance diagnostic imaging before applying said protective coat. 12. A method in accordance with claim 9 further comprising the step of applying an optional thin outermost special-purpose coat. 13. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying said protective coats comprises the step of applying protective coats that are no thicker than 0.20 millimeters thick. 14. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope to the microspheres includes the step of applying a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV, and with a half-life of less than 130 days, wherein the microspheres are low energy permanent radioactive microspheres for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 15. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope to the microspheres includes the step of applying a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seeds are high energy permanent multilayered radioactive microspheres for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 16. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope to the microspheres includes the step of applying a radionuclide that has a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV, with a half-life of greater than 15 to 20 days, or an average energy less than 100 KeV and a half-life of greater than 130 days, wherein the multilayer radioactive microspheres are temporary removable multilayered radioactive microspheres for temporary removable interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 17. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the isotope emits a high energy electron particle without significant high-energy gamma-ray components, wherein the multilayer radioactive microspheres are electron-producing or beta multilayered radioactive microspheres for permanent or temporary removable interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 18. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that includes a compound dielectric material containing at least one non-radioactive and at least one radioactive component. 19. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive dielectric compound coat having two or more radioactive components. 20. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that is laminated with a nonradioactive material and a radioactive material. 21. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that is uniformly covered by a spherical diffusion barrier. 22. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that includes a diffusion barrier that comprises a metallic coat. 23. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that comprises several layers of metals. 24. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that includes several layers of compounds and metals. 25. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of applying a radioactive coat that includes a chemically resistant human tissue-compatible metal having sufficiently low atomic weight to minimize X-ray shielding. 26. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying a protective coat comprises the step of applying protective coat composed of a chemically resistant human tissue-compatible metal compound. 27. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying a protective coat comprises the step of applying protective coat composed of a resistant human tissue-compatible metal coat less than 0.1 millimeters thick which has a high atomic weight. 28. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying a protective coat includes the step of applying a protective coat of a human tissue-incompatible metal that is covered by a tissue-compatible thin coat, whereby a tissue-compatible outermost coat applied over the protective spherical metal coat permits more toxic but low atomic weight metals to be used as the spherical protective coat. 29. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying a protective coat includes the step of applying a tissue-compatible thin coat of sputtered diamond. 30. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying a protective coat includes the step of applying a tissue-compatible thin coat of sputtered platinum. 31. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying a protective coat includes the step of applying a tissue-compatible thin coat of sputtered metal used to produce different seed identification colors. 32. A method according to claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the steps of: selecting levels of radioactivity energy and half-lives; selecting radioactive materials for the target and the operating conditions of a vacuum sputtering or plasma deposition apparatus corresponding to the radioactivity and half-life selected; and sputtering or plasma deposition of the coats onto the microspheres from the selected target material and with the selected operating conditions. 33. A method in accordance with claim 9 in which the step of applying an isotope includes the step of dc sputtering from a radioactive metal target. 34. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the step of applying the isotope includes the step of rf or magnetron sputtering using a radioactive dielectric target. 35. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the step of applying an isotope includes the step of sputtering a metal in the presence of a gaseous radionuclide such as a radioactive hydride gas or monoatomic gas wherein a radioactive metal compound coat is formed by combining the metal with the radioactive component of the gas. 36. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein sputtering is produced by magnetron sputtering using a radioactive dielectric target. 37. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the isotope is applied by reactive sputter-deposition in an excited radioactive gas to produce a coat which is a radioactive compound of the radioactive gas and a sputtered target material. 38. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the isotope is applied by reactive cathodic arc plasma deposition in an excited radioactive gas producing a coat which is a radioactive compound of the radioactive gas and a sputtered target material. 39. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the isotope is applied by reactive ion beam sputtering using a cathodic arc ion source in an excited radioactive gas to produce a coat which is a radioactive compound of the radioactive gas and a sputtered target material. 40. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the isotope is applied by reactive ion-plating using an electron-beam in an excited radioactive gas producing a coat which is a radioactive compound of the radioactive gas and a sputtered target material. 41. A method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the isotope is applied by cathodic arc plasma deposition using a radioactive dielectric target. 