A user of a modeling application modifies an initial virtual object using a sketch drawn on one or more construction planes. Typically, construction planes are connected by an axis that intersects the virtual object. The user can draw a sketch on each construction plane, and the modeling application interpolates a shape along the axis between the sketches to determine what material in the virtual object is to be removed from it. In this manner, material may be removed to create a recess or hole in the virtual object or otherwise to slice away material from the object. A user can use two or more axes and construction planes to produce complex shapes from the initial virtual object. A user can also select a portion of a virtual object and mirror the selected portion. Modifications that the user makes in the selected portion are made correspondingly in the mirrored portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating a virtual model in a haptic virtual environment, the method comprising the steps of: defining an initial block of virtual material having a shape within the haptic virtual environment when operative within a computer; overlaying the initial block with a construction plane that occupies a selected one of the same space as the initial block, a larger space and a smaller space; defining a virtual drawing tool responsive to a haptic interface device, the haptic interface device communicating with the computer to provide interaction with a user in real space; drawing a sketch on the construction plane with the virtual tool in response to commands issued by the user; and modifying the shape of the initial block by removing virtual material from the initial block according to the sketch to prepare a virtual model of an object. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of defining an initial block comprises one of selecting a previously-created virtual model as the initial block and defining an initial block having a desired shape. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of overlaying the initial block with a construction plane comprises positioning the construction plane in a selected one of a location external to the initial block, a location adjacent the initial block, and a location within the initial block. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the virtual drawing tool comprises a handle and an end, the end used to perform one or more of creating the sketch, feeling the construction plane, selecting the construction plane, manipulating the construction plane, and manipulating the virtual block of material. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the haptic interface device comprises a stylus and a switch, both of which are subject to manipulation by the user. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the drawing step comprises a selected one of drawing the sketch directly on the construction plane and moving a previously-created sketch onto the construction plane. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein drawing a sketch comprises one or more of drawing in freehand form, drawing one or more of a line segment, a circle, an arc, a box, and a spline, and erasing a portion of a sketch. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein drawing comprises, during a time when a characteristic geometric primitive mode of the virtual drawing tool is active, identifying a first location on a construction plane, issuing a first command, identifying a second location, and issuing a second command, thereby rendering a corresponding geometric shape as a portion of the sketch. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of drawing a sketch comprises outlining a desired shape using a plurality of views of the virtual block. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein a plurality of views comprises at least two of a top view, a side view and a front view. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying the shape of the initial block comprises cutting the initial block according to a shape of the sketch on the construction plane. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of modifying the shape comprises a selected one of removing material outside the sketch and removing material inside the sketch. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing haptic force feedback to the user, in response to a command from the user. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising at least one of saving the modified virtual object to a data storage medium, displaying the modified virtual object on a visual display, transmitting a copy of the modified virtual object over a network, providing the modified virtual object as a printed representation, and creating a real representation of the modified virtual object as a three-dimensional physical model. 15. A method of generating a virtual model in a haptic virtual environment, the method comprising the steps of: defining an initial block of virtual material having a shape within the haptic virtual environment when operative within a computer; providing a plurality of construction planes in a parallel configuration, spaced apart one from the other, to form a stack of planes; overlaying the initial block with at least one of the plurality of construction planes; defining a virtual drawing tool responsive to a haptic interface device, the haptic interface device communicating with the computer to provide interaction with a user in real space; drawing a sketch with the virtual tool in response to commands issued by the user on each of at least two of the planes selected from the stack of planes; and modifying the shape of the initial block by removing virtual material from the initial block according to an interpolation among the sketches to prepare a virtual model of an object. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of defining an initial block comprises one of selecting a previously-created virtual model as the initial block and defining an initial block having a desired shape. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of overlaying the initial block with at least one of the plurality of construction planes comprises overlaying the initial block with a construction plane that occupies a selected one of the same space as the initial block, a larger space and a smaller space. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of overlaying the initial block with at least one of the plurality of construction planes comprises positioning the construction plane in a selected one of a location external to the initial block, a location adjacent the initial block, and a location within the initial block. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the virtual drawing tool comprises a handle and an end, the end used to perform one or more of creating the sketch, feeling the construction plane, selecting the construction plane, manipulating the construction plane, and manipulating the virtual block of material. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the haptic interface device comprises a stylus and a switch, both of which are subject to manipulation by the user. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein the drawing step comprises a selected one of drawing the sketch directly on the construction plane and moving a previously-created sketch onto the construction plane. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein drawing a sketch comprises one or more of drawing in freehand form, drawing one or more of a line segment, a circle, an arc, a box, and a spline, and erasing a portion of a sketch. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein drawing comprises, during a time when a characteristic geometric primitive mode of the virtual drawing tool is active, identifying a first location on a construction plane, issuing a first command, identifying a second location, and issuing a second command, thereby rendering a corresponding geometric shape as a portion of the sketch. 24. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of drawing a sketch comprises outlining a desired shape using a plurality of views of the virtual block. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein a plurality of views comprises at least two of a top view, a side view and a front view. 26. The method of claim 15, wherein modifying the shape of the initial block comprises cutting the initial block according to a shape of the sketch on the construction plane. 27. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of modifying the shape comprises a selected one of removing material outside the interpolation and removing material inside the interpolation. 28. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing haptic force feedback to the user, in response to a command from the user. 29. The method of claim 15, further comprising at least one of saving the modified virtual object to a data storage medium, displaying the modified virtual object on a visual display, transmitting a copy of the modified virtual object over a network, providing the modified virtual object as a printed representation, and creating a real representation of the modified virtual object as a three-dimensional physical model. 