A space module has an outer structure designed for traveling in space, a docking mechanism for facilitating a docking operation therewith in space, a first storage system storing a first propellant that burns as a result of a chemical reaction therein, a second storage system storing a second propellant that burns as a result of electrical energy being added thereto, and a bi-directional transfer interface coupled to each of the first and second storage systems to transfer the first and second propellants into and out thereof. The space module can be part of a propellant supply architecture that includes at least two of the space modules placed in an orbit in space.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A space module, comprising: an outer structure for traveling in space; at least one docking mechanism coupled to an end of said outer structure for facilitating a docking operation therewith in space; a first storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a first propellant that burns as a result of a chemical reaction therein; a second storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a second propellant that burns as a result of electrical energy being added thereto; and a bi-directional transfer interface coupled to said first storage system for transferring said first propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface further coupled to said second storage system for transferring said second propellant into and out thereof. 2. A space module as in claim 1 wherein said at least one docking mechanism comprises: a first docking mechanism positioned at one longitudinal end of said outer structure; and a second docking mechanism positioned at an opposing longitudinal end of said outer structure. 3. A space module as in claim 1 wherein said first propellant comprises a fuel and an oxidizer, and wherein said first storage system includes a first tank for storing said fuel and a second tank for storing said oxidizer. 4. A space module as in claim 3 wherein each of said fuel and said oxidizer are stored in a liquid form. 5. A space module as in claim 4 wherein said fuel is liquid hydrogen and said oxidizer is liquid oxygen. 6. A space module as in claim 1 wherein said second propellant is selected from the group consisting of xenon and krypton. 7. A space module as in claim 2 wherein said bi-directional transfer interface terminates at one of said first and second docking mechanisms wherein, when a visiting module is coupled to said one of said first and second docking mechanisms, each of said first propellant and said second propellant can be transferred to and from the visiting module via said bi-directional transfer interface. 8. A space module as in claim 1 further comprising means coupled to said outer structure for controlling attitude of said outer structure while traveling in space. 9. A space module as in claim 3 wherein said second storage system includes a third tank for storing said second propellant, and wherein said first tank, said second tank, and said third tank are aligned along a longitudinal axis of said outer structure. 10. A space module as in claim 1 further comprising means coupled to said first storage system and said second storage system for cryogenically cooling said first propellant and said second propellant. 11. A space module as in claim 1 wherein said outer structure comprises: a skeletal frame; and a skin coupled to and covering said skeletal frame, said skin including means for deflecting space debris impacting said skin. 12. A space module as in claim 11 wherein said skeletal frame comprises: a plurality of rings spaced apart from one another along a longitudinal axis of said outer structure; and a plurality of longerons coupled between and to each pair of adjacent ones of said plurality of rings. 13. A space module for transport to an orbit in space in the cargo bay of a launch vehicle and for deployment in the orbit by the launch vehicle, said space module comprising: an outer structure that is generally cylindrical and tapers at opposing longitudinal ends thereof; a first docking mechanism positioned at one of said longitudinal ends of said outer structure; a second docking mechanism positioned at an opposing one of said longitudinal ends of said outer structure; a first storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a first propellant that burns as a result of a chemical reaction therein; a second storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a second propellant that burns as a result of electrical energy being added thereto; and a bi-directional transfer interface coupled to said first storage system for transferring said first propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface further coupled to said second storage system for transferring said second propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface terminating at one of said first and second docking mechanisms wherein, when a visiting module is coupled to said one of said first and second docking mechanisms, each of said first propellant and said second propellant can be transferred to and from the visiting module via said bi-directional transfer interface. 14. A space module as in claim 13 wherein said first propellant comprises a fuel and an oxidizer, and wherein said first storage system includes a first tank for storing said fuel and a second tank for storing said oxidizer. 15. A space module as in claim 14 wherein each of said fuel and said oxidizer are stored in a liquid form. 16. A space module as in claim 15 wherein said fuel is liquid hydrogen and said oxidizer is liquid oxygen. 17. A space module as in claim 16 wherein said second propellant is selected from the group consisting of xenon and krypton. 18. A space module as in claim 17 wherein said second storage system includes a third tank for storing said second propellant, and wherein said first tank, said second tank, and said third tank are aligned sequentially along a longitudinal axis of said outer structure with said third tank being closest to said one of said first and second docking mechanisms at which said bi-directional transfer interface terminates, said second tank being positioned between said first tank and said third tank. 19. A space module as in claim 13 further comprising means coupled to said outer structure for controlling attitude of said outer structure after deployment thereof in the orbit by the launch vehicle. 20. A space module as in claim 13 further comprising means coupled to said first storage system and said second storage system for cryogenically cooling said first propellant and said second propellant. 21. A space module as in claim 13 wherein said outer structure comprises: a skeletal frame; and a skin coupled to and covering said skeletal frame, said skin including means for deflecting space debris impacting said skin. 22. A space module as in claim 21 wherein said skeletal frame comprises: a plurality of rings spaced apart from one another along a longitudinal axis of said outer structure, said plurality of rings including i) a first ring to which said first docking mechanism is coupled, ii) a second ring to which said second docking mechanism is coupled, and iii) at least one additional ring positioned between said first ring and said second ring; and a plurality of longerons coupled between and to each pair of adjacent ones of said plurality of rings. 23. A propellant supply architecture for in-space transportation comprising: at least two space modules with each of said space modules being transported to an orbit in space in the cargo bay of a launch vehicle and deployed in the orbit by the launch vehicle; each of said space modules comprising i) an outer structure, ii) a first docking mechanism positioned at a first longitudinal end of said outer structure, iii) a second docking mechanism positioned at a second longitudinal end of said outer structure, iv) a first storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a first propellant that burns as a result of a chemical reaction therein, v) a second storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a second propellant that burns as a result of electrical energy being added thereto, and vi) a bi-directional transfer interface coupled to said first storage system for transferring said first propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface further coupled to said second storage system for transferring said second propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface terminating at one of said first and second docking mechanisms wherein, when a space vehicle is coupled to said one of said first and second docking mechanisms, each of said first propellant and said second propellant can be transferred to and from the space vehicle via said bi-directional transfer interface; wherein a first of said space modules is coupled toward a first space vehicle via said one of said first and second docking mechanisms associated with said first of said space modules, and wherein the first space vehicle travels toward a destination in space using said first propellant to generate thrust; and wherein a second of said space modules is coupled to a second space vehicle via said one of said first and second docking mechanisms associated with said second of said space modules, and wherein the second space vehicle travels toward said destination in space using said second propellant to generate thrust. 24. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 23 wherein, for each of said space modules, said first propellant comprises a fuel and an oxidizer, and wherein said first storage system includes a first tank for storing said fuel and a second tank for storing said oxidizer. 25. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 24 wherein, for each of said space modules, each of said fuel and said oxidizer are stored in a liquid form. 26. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 25 wherein, for each of said space modules, said fuel is liquid hydrogen and said oxidizer is liquid oxygen. 27. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 26 wherein, for each of said space modules, said second propellant is selected from the group consisting of xenon and krypton. 28. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 27 wherein, for each of said space modules, said second storage system includes a third tank for storing said second propellant, and wherein said first tank, said second tank, and said third tank are aligned sequentially along a longitudinal axis of said outer structure with said third tank being closest to said one of said first and second docking mechanisms at which said bi-directional transfer interface terminates, said second tank being positioned between said first tank and said third tank. 29. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 23 wherein each of said space modules further comprises means coupled to said outer structure for controlling attitude of said outer structure after deployment thereof in the orbit by the launch vehicle. 30. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 23 wherein each of said space modules further comprises means coupled to said first storage system and said second storage system for cryogenically cooling said first propellant and said second propellant. 31. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 23 wherein, for each of said space modules, said outer structure comprises: a skeletal frame; and a skin coupled to and covering said skeletal frame, said skin including means for deflecting space debris impacting said skin. 32. A propellant supply architecture as in claim 31 wherein said skeletal frame comprises: a plurality of rings spaced apart from one another along a longitudinal axis of said outer structure, said plurality of rings including i) a first ring to which said first docking mechanism is coupled, ii) a second ring to which said second docking mechanism is coupled, and iii) at least one additional ring positioned between said first ring and said second ring; and a plurality of longerons coupled between and to each pair of adjacent ones of said plurality of rings. 33. A method of providing propellant for in-space transportation, comprising the steps of: providing at least two space modules with each of said space modules comprising i) an outer structure, ii) a first docking mechanism positioned at a first longitudinal end of said outer structure, iii) a second docking mechanism positioned at a second longitudinal end of said outer structure, iv) a first storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a first propellant that burns as a result of a chemical reaction therein, v) a second storage system mounted within said outer structure for storing a second propellant that burns as a result of electrical energy being added thereto, and vi) a bi-directional transfer interface coupled to said first storage system for transferring said first propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface further coupled to said second storage system for transferring said second propellant into and out thereof, said bi-directional transfer interface terminating at one of said first and second docking mechanisms wherein, when a space vehicle is coupled to said one of said first and second docking mechanisms, each of said first propellant and said second propellant can be transferred to and from the space vehicle via said bi-directional transfer interface; transporting each of said space modules to an orbit in space; deploying each of said space modules in the orbit; coupling a first of said space modules to a first space vehicle via said one of said first and second docking mechanisms associated with said first of said space modules; propelling said first space vehicle toward a destination in space using said first propellant to generate thrust; coupling a second of said space modules to a second space vehicle via said one of said first and second docking mechanisms associated with said second of said space modules; propelling said second space vehicle toward said destination in space using said second propellant to generate thrust; switching, at approximately said destination, said first space vehicle with said second space vehicle, wherein said first space vehicle is coupled to said second of said space modules and wherein said second space vehicle is coupled to said first of said space modules; propelling said first space vehicle toward a second destination in space using said first propellant in said second of said space modules to generate thrust; and propelling said second space vehicle toward said second destination in space using said second propellant in said first of said space modules to generate thrust. 34. A method according to claim 33 wherein said second destination is the orbit where said first and said second of said space modules were deployed. 35. A method according to claim 33 wherein, for each of said space modules, each of said first propellant and said second propellant are stored in a liquid form. 36. A method according to claim 35 further comprising the step of cryogenically cooling said first propellant and said second propellant stored in said liquid form. 