A system-level (SLT) of a CPU device is performed in an automated test environment. Each device under test is automatically placed an SLT station and a test is performed at an initial operating speed. A CPU device which passes the test is then automatically removed and placed in a storage container based on that operating speed, also known as a rating (or rated) speed. If the device fails the test, however, then it remains in the test station and the operating speed of the station is adjusted until the device is able to pass the test. Once successful, the device is automatically removed and placed in a storage container based on the operating speed at which it finally was successful. A device which is unable to pass a system-level test at any speed is automatically removed and placed in a reject bin. This testing procedure is repeated for a number of devices without requiring manual intervention to place the device in the SLT station, adjust the test operating speed, or binning the CPU device according to its rated speed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated system level test apparatus comprising: a test station configured to receive a device under test; a test controller configured: to operate the device under test at an adjustable operating speed; to perform a system-level test on the device when operated at the adjustable operating speed; to determine if the system-level test is successfully completed and if successful, stop the test; and to automatically reduce the adjustable operating speed to a new operating speed and repeat the system-level test at the new operating speed, if the system-level test is not successfully completed; and a sorter configured to place the device under test at a location according to the adjustable operating speed at which the system-level test is successfully completed. 2. The automated system level test apparatus of claim 1, wherein the device under test is a microprocessor. 3. The automated system level test apparatus of claim 1, wherein the test controller is further configured to determine if a failure condition is met and to stop the system-level test if the failure condition is met, and the sorter is further configured to place the device at a location according to the failure condition. 4. The automated system level test apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a picker/placer configured to acquire the device under test and position the device on the test station. 5. The automated system level test apparatus of claim 4, wherein the picker/placer is further configured to operate as the sorter. 6. An automated system level testing (SLT) system for a device under test comprising: a test station configured to receive a device under test; the test station further configured to operate the device under test at an adjustable operating speed; a robotic arm configured to pick the device under test and place the device under test on the test station; a tester configured to perform a test on the device under test, when operated at the adjustable operating speed, until the device under test successfully completes the test or a failure condition is met; a test evaluator which determines a test result from at least the following conditions: 1) a passing operating speed at which the device under test successfully completes the test; 2) the device under test does not successfully complete the test, and 3) the failure condition is met; a clock adjuster configured to reduce the adjustable operating speed to a new speed and further configured to signal the tester to repeat the test at the new speed, if the device under test does not successfully complete the test, and the robotic arm further configured to place the device in a location according to the test result. 7. The automated system level testing (SLT) system of claim 6, wherein the device is a microprocessor. 8. The automated system level testing (SLT) system of claim 7, wherein the adjustable operating speed varies from a maximum of 1 GHz to a minimum of substantially 100 MHz. 9. The automated system level testing (SLT) system of claim 6, wherein the test station further comprises: a motherboard, including a data bus; a storage medium connected to the motherboard and storing procedures for conducting the test; a clock circuit board configured to operate at an adjustable speed, and a daughtercard configured to: connect with the data bus; receive the device under test, and receive the clock circuit board. 10. The automated system level testing (SLT) system of claim 6, wherein the test station further comprises a voltage controlled oscillator to adjust the adjustable operating speed. 11. A method of automating a system level test of a device at a test station comprising the steps: repeating the following steps until the device successfully completes the system level test or a failure condition is reached: a) operating the device at an adjustable operating speed; b) performing the system level test of the device when operated at the adjustable operating speed; c) determining if the system level test is successfully completed or if the failure condition is reached; d) if the system level test is not successfully completed, then automatically adjusting the adjustable operating speed; if the system level test is successfully completed, then associating with the device an operating speed at which the system level test is successfully completed, wherein the conditional step of associating with the device an operating speed includes automatically placing the device at a location based on the operating speed at which the system level test is successfully completed; and if the failure condition is reached, then rejecting the device. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the device is a microprocessor. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the conditional step of rejecting the device includes: automatically placing the device in a rejection container. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising the steps: automatically picking the device from a set of devices, and automatically placing the device onto the test station. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the conditional step of automatically adjusting the adjustable operating speed includes: selecting a voltage for a voltage controlled oscillator. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of: repeating all the steps of the method for each of a plurality of devices. 