A system and method for distributing electrical power to an automated robotic device for transporting media cartridges in a data storage library. A power distributor includes multiple sections having first and second electrical conductors. A first power supply powers the first and second conductors of each section of the power distributor, and is connected to the first and second conductors of at least two section of the power distributor. A second power supply powers the first and second conductors of each section of the power distributor, and is connected to the first and second conductors of at least two sections of the power distributor. Power to each section of the power distributor is maintained in the event of a failure of one of the power supplies, and in the event of an electrical discontinuity in the power distributor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for holding media cartridges for use in storing data, at least one media drive, and an automated robotic device for transporting cartridges between the plurality of cells and the at least one media drive in the data storage library, a system for distributing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the system comprising: a power distributor comprising a plurality of sections, each section having first and second electrical conductors for use in providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second conductors to be provided with opposite electrical charges, wherein the first conductors of the plurality of sections are electrically connected and the second conductors of the plurality of sections are electrically connected so that electrical power is provided to at least a portion of the data storage library, and wherein the automated robotic device has a plurality of contacts for making electrical contact with the first and second conductors as the automated robotic device moves in the at least a portion of the data storage library; a first power supply for supplying electrical power to the first and second conductors of each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor, the first power supply electrically connected to the first and second conductors of at least two of the plurality of sections of the power distributor; and a second power supply for supplying electrical power to the first and second conductors of each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor, the second power supply electrically connected to the first and second conductors of at least two of the plurality of sections of the power distributor, wherein electrical power to each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor is maintained in the event of a failure of one of the first and second power supplies, and wherein electrical power to each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor is maintained in the event of an electrical discontinuity in the power distributor. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the power distributor comprises a power distribution strip, the strip comprising a substantially planar insulating member having opposed first and second sides, the first and second electrical conductors disposed on the opposed first and second sides, respectively, for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, and wherein the plurality of contacts comprises a first pair of brushes for making electrical contact with the first conductor and a second pair of brushes for making electrical contact with the second conductor, at least one of the first pair of brushes and at least one of the second pair of brushes maintaining contact with the first and second conductors, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the at least a portion of the data storage library. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the power distribution strip is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the power distributor comprises a power distribution rail assembly, the assembly comprising first and second electrically conductive rails for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second rails to be provided with opposite electrical charges, wherein the plurality of contacts comprises a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first rail and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second rail, at least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintaining contact with the first and second rails, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the at least a portion of the data storage library. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the power distribution rail assembly is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the power distributor supplies DC power to the robotic device. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the power distributor supplies AC power to the robotic device. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of sections of the power distributor are connected in a grid to provide electrical power in the at least a portion of the data storage library in at least two dimensions. 9. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for holding media cartridges for use in storing data, at least one media drive, and an automated robotic device for transporting cartridges between the plurality of cells and the at least one media drive in the data storage library, a method for distributing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the method comprising: providing a power distributor comprising a plurality of sections, each section having first and second electrical conductors for use in providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second conductors to be provided with opposite electrical charges, wherein the first conductors of the plurality of sections are electrically connected and the second conductors of the plurality of sections are electrically connected so that electrical power is provide to at least a portion of the data storage library, and wherein the automated robotic device has a plurality of contacts for making electrical contact with the first and second conductors as the automated robotic device moves in the at least a portion of the data storage library; providing a first power supply for supplying electrical power to the first and second conductors of each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor, the first power supply electrically connected to the first and second conductors of at least two of the plurality of sections of the power distributor; and providing a second power supply for supplying electrical power to the first and second conductors of each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor, the second power supply electrically connected to the first and second conductors of at least two of the plurality of sections of the power distributor, wherein electrical power to each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor is maintained in the event of a failure of one of the first and second power supplies, and wherein electrical power to each of the plurality of sections of the power distributor is maintained in the event of an electrical discontinuity in the power distributor. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the power distributor comprises a power distribution strip, the strip comprising a substantially planar insulating member having opposed first and second sides, the first and second electrical conductors disposed on the opposed first and second sides, respectively, for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, and wherein the plurality of contacts comprises a first pair of brushes for making electrical contact with the first conductor and a second pair of brushes for making electrical contact with the second conductor, at least one of the first pair of brushes and at least one of the second pair of brushes maintaining contact with the first and second conductors, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the at least a portion of the data storage library. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the power distribution strip is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the power distributor comprises a power distribution rail assembly, the assembly comprising first and second electrically conductive rails for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second rails to be provided with opposite electrical charges, wherein the plurality of contacts comprises a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first rail and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second rail, at least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintaining contact with the first and second rails, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the at least a portion of the data storage library. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the power distribution rail assembly is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the power distributor supplies DC power to the robotic device. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the power distributor supplies AC power to the robotic device. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the plurality of sections of the power distributor are connected in a grid to provide electrical power in the at least a portion of the data storage library in at least two dimensions. 