A remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly having detachable accessories has an axle connected to a toy vehicle chassis. A generator is detachably electrically connectable to a conventional battery. The generator is drivingly coupled to the axle and is for recharging the battery when the axle is rotating. A motor is detachably electrically connectable to the conventional battery and is drivingly coupled to the axle.
Claims I claim: 1. A remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly comprising: a toy vehicle chassis; an axle connected to said toy vehicle chassis; a generator detachably electrically connectable to a conventional battery, said generator drivingly coupled to said axle, said generator for recharging said battery when said axle is rotating; and a motor detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery, said motor drivingly coupled to said axle. 2. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a wireless remote control capable of sending a remote control signal; and wherein said motor is capable of receiving said remote control signal and responding to said remote control signal. 3. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a muffler lamp detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said muffler lamp detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery. 4. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a headlight detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said headlight detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery. 5. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a taillight detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said taillight detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery. 6. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a front end bumper detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis. 7. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a hood scoop detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis. 8. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a spoiler detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis. 9. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a rim detachably connectable to said axle. 10. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 1 wherein: said chassis is comprised of plastic. 11. A remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly comprising: a toy vehicle chassis; a wireless remote control capable of sending a remote control signal; an axle connected to said toy vehicle chassis; a generator detachably electrically connectable to a conventional battery, said generator drivingly coupled to said axle, said generator for recharging said battery when said axle is rotating; and a motor detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery, said motor drivingly coupled to said axle, said motor is capable of receiving said remote control signal and responding to said remote control signal. 12. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 11 further comprising: a muffler lamp detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said muffler lamp detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery. 13. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 12 further comprising: a headlight detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said headlight detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery. 14. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 13 further comprising: a taillight detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said taillight detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery. 15. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 14 further comprising: a front end bumper detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis. 16. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 15 further comprising: a hood scoop detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis. 17. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 16 further comprising: a spoiler detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis. 18. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 17 further comprising: a rim detachably connectable to said axle. 19. The remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly of claim 18 wherein: said chassis is comprised of plastic. 20. A remote control convertible toy vehicle assembly comprising: a toy vehicle chassis, said chassis is comprised of plastic; a wireless remote control capable of sending a remote control signal; an axle connected to said toy vehicle chassis; a generator detachably electrically connectable to a conventional battery, said generator drivingly coupled to said axle, said generator for recharging said battery when said axle is rotating; a motor detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery, said motor drivingly coupled to said axle, said motor is capable of receiving said remote control signal and responding to said remote control signal; a muffler lamp detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said muffler lamp detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery; a headlight detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said headlight detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery; a taillight detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis, said taillight detachably electrically connectable to said conventional battery; a front end bumper detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis; a hood scoop detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis; a spoiler detachably connectable to said toy vehicle chassis; and a rim detachably connectable to said axle. 