A deep storage cell for a data library that allows stacking of cartridges behind one another. Effective wall area is increased by stacking the cartridges two or three deep (or more) in a single storage slot. A spring provides force to expel the cartridges, and a toggle block with a catch lip holds the spring back when cartridges are inserted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library, comprising: a plurality of storage cells for storing data storage elements; wherein at least one of the storage cells has sufficient volume to contain at least two data storage elements and a biasing mechanism for ejecting at least one of the data storage elements; and wherein the biasing mechanism is a spring. 2. The data storage library of claim 1, further comprising a retrieval unit capable of removing storage elements from the storage cell. 3. A storage system, comprising: a plurality of storage cells for storing data storage elements; and a retrieval unit capable of removing data storage elements from the plurality of storage cells; wherein at least one of the storage cells has sufficient volume to contain a plurality of data storage elements and a biasing mechanism with a catch and release mechanism; wherein when a first data storage element is positioned in the at least one of the storage cells, the biasing mechanism is held at a first position by the catch and release mechanism such that the first data storage element is accessible to the retrieval unit; and wherein when a second data storage element is added to the at least one of the storage cells, the biasing mechanism is held at a second position by the catch and release mechanism such that the second data storage element is accessible to the retrieval unit. 4. The storage system of claim 3, wherein the biasing mechanism is a spring. 5. The storage system of claim 3, wherein the catch and release mechanism comprises a toggle block and first and second catch lips upon which the toggle block catches. 6. The storage system of claim 5, wherein the toggle block catches on the first catch lip when a first data storage element is placed in a first storage cell of the plurality of storage cells, and wherein the toggle block catches on the second catch lip when a second data storage element is placed in the first storage cell. 7. The storage system of claim 3 wherein the retrieval unit is a robotic manipulator capable of clamping on a data storage element. 8. A storage cell for a data storage library, comprising: first and second catch lips; a biasing mechanism having a toggle block attached thereto; whereby when a first data storage element is inserted into the storage cell at a first position, the toggle block catches the first catch lip; whereby when a second data storage element is inserted into the storage cell at the first position, the first data storage element is moved to a second position and the toggle block catches a second catch lip. 9. The storage cell of claim 8, wherein the biasing mechanism is a spring. 10. The storage cell of claim 8, wherein when the second data element is removed from the storage cell, the toggle block is released from the second catch lip and the first data storage element is moved to the first position. 11. The storage cell of claim 8, wherein any data storage element in the first position is accessible to a retrieval unit that can remove that data storage element from the storage cell. 12. A storage cell for a data storage library, comprising: a front end having an opening for insertion of data storage elements; a rear end opposite the front end having a biasing mechanism attached thereto by a first end, the biasing mechanism having a toggle block attached to a second end; a plurality of catch lips; whereby when a first data storage element is inserted through the front end to a first position, the toggle block catches a first catch lip; whereby when a second data storage element is inserted through the front end to the first position, the first data storage element moves to a second position and adjusts the biasing mechanism such that the toggle block catches a second catch lip. 13. The storage cell of claim 12, wherein the biasing mechanism is a spring. 14. The storage cell of claim 12, wherein any data storage element in the first position is accessible to a retrieval unit that can remove that data storage element from the storage cell. 15. The storage cell of claim 12, wherein when the second data storage element is removed from the storage cell, the toggle block is released from the second catch lip and the first data storage element is moved to the first position. 16. A storage cell for a data storage library, comprising: an opening for insertion and ejection of data storage elements; an ejection mechanism, which provides force to eject data storage elements; wherein the ejection mechanism resides in a first position when there is one data storage element inserted into the storage cell; and wherein the ejection mechanism resides in a second position when there are two data storage elements inserted into the storage cell. 17. The storage cell of claim 16, wherein the ejection mechanism is a spring. 