A steering mechanism for a track-mounted robot is provided. The steering mechanism comprises guide wheels, which are fixed to yokes that pivot around secondary drive wheels. The pivot action of the yokes allows the guide wheels to maintain full contact with the track and steer as the robot traverses straight and curved portions of the track. Linkage components attach the yokes to a cam follower which follows a cam surface in the track in order to force the proper angle of steering for the guide wheels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A steering mechanism for a track-mounted robot, the steering mechanism comprising: an articulated robot chassis, wherein the chassis is divided into at least a first section and a second section that pivot about at least a first axis; at least one guide component coupled to each of the first section and the second section, wherein each guide component runs along the track; at least one cam follower coupled to each the first section and the second section, wherein each cam follower follows a cam surface of the track; and a first drive component coupled to the first section and a second drive component coupled to the second section, wherein the first drive component and the second drive component move the track-mounted robot along the track; wherein rotation of the first section and the second section causes the guide component to maintain a movement path tangent to the track as the cam followers move along the cam surface of the track. 2. The steering mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the guide components are wheels. 3. The steering mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the cam followers are wheels. 4. The steering mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the robot moves along straight and curved track. 5. The steering mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first drive component and the second drive component are drive wheels. 6. The steering mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first component and the second component pivot with respect to each other about the first axis. 7. The steering mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the first section is coupled to a central chassis section and pivots with respect to the central chassis section about the first axis, and wherein the second section is coupled to the central chassis section and pivots with respect to the central chassis section about a second axis. 