A multiple orifice applicator system for dispensing a plurality of rows of fluid material onto a work piece is disclosed. A source of fluid material is in fluid communication with the multiple orifice applicator. The multiple orifice applicator is mounted to a robotic arm, which positions the multiple orifice applicator relative to the work piece to enable the multiple orifice applicator to dispense fluid material onto the work piece. Fluid material is caused to flow from the source of fluid material into the multiple orifice applicator. The fluid material enters the multiple orifice applicator through an inlet port and is dispersed and spread out in a dispersing chamber. The fluid material is dispensed onto the work piece through a plurality of outlet orifices in the multiple orifice applicator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for applying a fluid material to a work piece, comprising: a source of fluid material; a multiple orifice applicator remotely located from said source of fluid material, said multiple orifice applicator having: an inlet port; a dispersing chamber in fluid communication with said inlet port; a plurality of outlet orifices in fluid communication with said source of fluid material; an integrated flow control valve positioned between said inlet port and said dispersing chamber; and wherein a fluid flow path between said valve and said dispersing chamber is substantially linear; and an electronically-controlled robotic arm having said multiple orifice applicator attached thereto, said electronically-controlled robotic arm being configured to selectively move said multiple orifice applicator relative to the work piece. 2. The system of claim 1, including a means for applying sufficient pressure to said fluid material such that said fluid materials is streamed from said multiple orifice applicator. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispersing chamber of said multiple orifice applicator includes a plurality of cascading shoulders between said inlet port and said outlet orifices. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an electronic motion controller that provides signals to control the movement of said electronically-controlled robot. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a metering system in fluid communication with said fluid source and said multiple orifice applicator for metering desired volumes of the fluid material. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a temperature-conditioning device for temperature-conditioning the fluid material prior to the fluid material being dispensed from said multiple orifice applicator. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said temperature-conditioning device is a temperature exchanger positioned between said source of fluid material and said multiple orifice applicator. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a source of air pressure to cause the fluid to flow from said source of fluid material to said multiple orifice applicator. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of outlet orifices are positioned so as to dispense a plurality of adjacent rows of the fluid material that collectively create a continuous band of material on said work piece. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the work piece a component of an automobile/transportation vehicle. 11. A system for applying a fluid material to a work piece, comprising: a source of fluid material; a multiple orifice applicator having a plurality of outlet orifices disposed in a detachable applicator plate, said outlet orifices being in fluid communication with said source of fluid material; an electronically-controlled robotic arm having said multiple orifice applicator attached thereto, said electronically-controlled robotic arm being configured to selectively move said multiple orifice applicator relative to the work piece; and wherein said source of fluid material is remote from said multiple orifice applicator. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said applicator plate includes at least one locating hole for engaging with a dowel to position said applicator plate relative to said multiple orifice applicator. 13. A system for applying fluid material to a work piece, comprising: a source of fluid material; a multiple orifice applicator in fluid communication with said source of fluid material, wherein said multiple orifice applicator has: an inlet port; at least two rows of outlet orifices for dispensing the fluid material onto the work piece, wherein said orifices that comprise adjacent ones of said rows are laterally offset from each other; and a dispersing chamber in fluid communication with said inlet port and said plurality of outlet orifices, said dispersing chamber having a plurality of cascading shoulders between said inlet port and said outlet orifices; and a mechanism for controlling relative positioning of said multiple orifice applicator and the work piece. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising a temperature-conditioning device for temperature-conditioning the fluid material prior to the fluid material being dispensed from said multiple orifice applicator. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said multiple orifice applicator further comprises a valve that selectively allows the fluid material to flow into said dispersing chamber. 16. A system for applying fluid material to a work piece, comprising: a source of fluid material; a multiple orifice applicator in fluid communication with said source of fluid material; a mechanism for controlling relative positioning of said multiple orifice applicator and the work piece; and wherein said multiple orifice applicator includes: an inlet port; a plurality of outlet orifices having inlet ends, said inlet ends being tapered; and a dispersing chamber positioned in a flow path between said inlet port and said outlet orifices, said dispersing chamber having a plurality of cascading shoulders between said inlet port and said outlet orifices. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said multiple orifice applicator further includes a valve that selectively allows the fluid material to flow into said dispersing chamber. 18. The system of claim 16, further comprising a temperature-conditioning device for temperature-conditioning the fluid material prior to the fluid material being dispensed from said multiple orifice applicator. 