A system for providing cash to users in a merchandise delivery environment such as a fast food drive-through environment. The system includes a customer request station (212, 262, 288, 300, 322, 378) at which the customer is enabled to input a request for merchandise as well as an input corresponding to a request to receive cash. The customer is further enabled to input to the customer request station information corresponding to a source of monetary value which the customer may charge against for ordered merchandise or for the amount of cash requested. The customer may then move to a cash delivery station (216, 338) to receive a portion or all of the requested cash. The customer is enabled to receive the ordered merchandise at a merchandise delivery station (222, 292, 304, 316, 324, 342).
Claims We claim: 1. A customer-accessible facility, wherein the facility includes: an order location adapted to receive a customer order for a merchandise, a request location, wherein the request location includes a self-service machine, wherein the self-service machine is adapted to receive a customer request for a cash withdrawal, a pickup location, wherein the pickup location is disposed from the request location, wherein the pickup location includes an automated dispensing machine, wherein the automated dispensing machine is customer accessible, wherein the pickup location is operatively interfaced with the request location, wherein the dispensing machine is adapted to dispense at least one item of monetary value which is dependent on the value of a merchandise order and the value of a cash request, a merchandise delivery location, wherein the merchandise delivery location is disposed from the order location and the request location, wherein at least one of the order location, request location, pickup location, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to a customer while another of the order location, request location, pickup location, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to another customer. 2. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the dispensing machine is operative to dispense cash. 3. The facility according to claim 2 wherein the dispensing machine is operative to dispense cash corresponding to the difference between the value of a cash request and the value of a merchandise order. 4. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the dispensing machine is operative to dispense a voucher. 5. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the request location includes a card reader. 6. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the request location includes a cash accepting device. 7. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the request location includes a check reading device. 8. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the request location includes a biometric reading device. 9. The facility according to claim 8 wherein the biometric reading device is operative to receive data corresponding to appearance features of a customer's face. 10. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the request location is operative to receive an input corresponding to a vehicle appearance feature of a vehicle adjacent the request station. 11. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the request station is adapted to receive at least one input corresponding to a source of monetary value. 12. The facility according to claim 11 wherein the input corresponding to the source of monetary value includes an RF signal. 13. The facility according to claim 1 wherein the order location and the request location are located at a customer request station, and wherein the customer request station, the pickup location, and the merchandise delivery location are arranged along a drive-through lane. 14. A facility including: a merchandise ordering location, wherein the merchandise ordering location includes at least one customer accessible input device, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive an input related to a merchandise order, a cash request location, wherein the cash request location includes at least one customer accessible input device, wherein the at least one input device at the cash request location is operative to receive an input related to a cash withdrawal request from an account, a cash dispensing location, wherein the cash dispensing location is remote from the cash request location, wherein the cash dispensing location is selectively operative to dispense cash, wherein the cash dispensing location is operative to dispense only a portion of requested cash dependent on the value of a merchandise order and the value of a cash request. 15. A facility including: a vehicle drive-through lane, at least one customer order station and a cash delivery station arranged along the vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the cash delivery station is remote from at least one customer order station, wherein the cash delivery station is accessible to a customer while a customer order station is accessible to another customer, wherein a customer order station is operative to receive at least one merchandise order, wherein a customer order station includes at least one customer-accessible input device operative to receive a cash request order, wherein the cash delivery station includes a customer-accessible automated cash dispensing device, wherein the cash dispensing device is selectively operative to dispense cash, wherein the cash dispensing device is operative to dispense cash responsive to both a merchandise order and a cash request order. 16. The facility according to claim 15 wherein a customer order station is operative to receive at least one merchandise order comprising a food product order. 17. A facility accessible to customers, wherein the facility includes: a customer order station, wherein the customer order station is adapted to receive a customer order for merchandise, and wherein the customer order station is adapted to receive a customer request for a cash withdrawal from an account via at least one customer accessible input device; a cash pickup station, wherein the cash pickup station includes an automated cash dispensing device, wherein the cash dispensing device is customer accessible, wherein the cash pickup station is operatively connected to the customer order station, wherein the cash dispensing device is operative to dispense at least a portion of requested cash responsive to a cash withdrawal request, and wherein the cash pickup station is disposed from the customer order station; a merchandise pickup station, wherein the merchandise pickup station is disposed from the customer order station and the cash pickup station; wherein at least one of the customer order station, cash pickup station, and merchandise pickup station is accessible to a customer while another of the customer order station, cash pickup station, and merchandise pickup station is accessible to another customer. 18. The facility according to claim 17 wherein the facility includes a vehicle drive-through lane, and wherein the customer order station, the cash pickup station, and the merchandise pickup station are arranged along the vehicle drive-through lane. 19. The facility according to claim 18 wherein the cash pickup station is arranged intermediate of the customer order station and the merchandise pickup station. 20. The facility according to claim 17 wherein the dispensing machine is operative to dispense a value of cash dependent on the value of a cash request and the value of a merchandise order. 21. The facility according to claim 20 wherein the dispensing machine is operative to dispense cash corresponding to the difference between the value of a cash request and the value of a merchandise order. 22. A facility including: a cash request station, wherein the cash request station includes at least one customer accessible input device, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive an input related to a cash withdrawal request from an account, a cash pickup station, wherein the cash pickup station is disposed from the cash request station, wherein the cash pickup station includes an automated cash dispensing device, wherein the cash dispensing device is customer accessible, wherein the cash pickup station is operatively connected to the cash request station, and wherein the cash dispensing device is operative to dispense only a portion of a requested cash withdrawal. 23. The facility according to claim 22 and further including vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the cash request station and the cash pickup station are arranged along the vehicle drive-through lane. 24. A facility including: a request station, wherein the request station is adapted to receive a customer request for a cash withdrawal, a computer, wherein the computer is operative to correlate a cash request with an identifier, a cash delivery station, wherein the cash delivery station includes an automated cash dispensing device, wherein the cash delivery station is operatively connected to the request station, wherein the cash delivery station includes at least one customer accessible input device, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive an input associated with the identifier, and wherein the cash dispensing device is operative to dispense cash responsive to receiving the identifier input, wherein the request station and the cash delivery station are arranged along a path, and wherein at least one of the request station and the cash delivery station is accessible to a customer while another of the request station and the cash delivery station is accessible to another customer. 25. The facility according to claim 24 wherein the request station is operative to deliver an identifier serving as a code, wherein the cash delivery station input device is operative to receive an input associated with the code. 26. The facility according to claim 24 wherein the identifier input includes an RF signal. 27. The facility according to claim 24 wherein the cash dispensing device is operative to dispense only a portion of requested cash responsive to receiving the identifier input. 28. A facility including: a path; a merchandise order location adapted to receive a customer order for a merchandise; a cash request location, wherein the cash request location includes at least one customer accessible input device, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive an input related to a cash withdrawal request from an account; a cash delivery location, wherein the cash delivery location includes a customer accessible automated cash dispensing device, wherein the automated cash dispensing device is operative to dispense cash relating to a cash withdrawal request, and wherein the cash delivery location is disposed along the path from the merchandise order location and the cash request location; a merchandise delivery location; wherein at least one of the merchandise order location, cash request location, cash delivery location, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to a customer while another of the merchandise order location, cash request location, cash delivery location, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to another customer. 29. The facility according to claim 28 further comprising a delivery station, wherein the delivery station includes the cash delivery location and the merchandise delivery location. 30. The facility according to claim 29 wherein merchandise delivery location includes a fast food delivery window. 31. The facility according to claim 29 wherein the path comprises a vehicle drive-through lane. 32. The facility according to claim 31 wherein the cash delivery location and the merchandise delivery location are both accessible to a customer in a stationary vehicle in the vehicle drive-through lane. 33. The facility according to claim 29 wherein the cash delivery location is disposed vertically below the merchandise delivery location. 34. The facility according to claim 28 wherein the automated cash dispensing device is operatively connected to a cash accepting device, wherein the cash accepting device is operative to accept cash from a customer. 35. The facility according to claim 34 wherein the automated cash dispensing device is operative to dispense cash accepted by the cash accepting device. 36. A facility including: a vehicle drive-through lane; a merchandise order location adapted to receive a customer order for merchandise; a cash request location, wherein the cash request location includes at least one customer accessible input device, wherein the at least one input device is operative to receive an input related to a cash withdrawal request from an account; a delivery station, wherein the delivery station includes a cash delivery location and a merchandise pickup location, wherein the delivery station is disposed from the merchandise order location along the vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the delivery station is disposed from the cash request location along the vehicle drive-through lane, and wherein the cash delivery location and the merchandise pickup location are accessible to a customer at the delivery station, wherein the cash delivery location includes a customer accessible automated dispensing machine, wherein the automated dispensing machine is operative to dispense at least one item of monetary value relating to a cash withdrawal request, wherein at least one of the merchandise order location, cash request location, and delivery station is accessible to a customer while another of the merchandise order location, cash request location, and delivery station is accessible to another customer. 37. The facility according to claim 36 wherein the at least one item of monetary value comprises cash, wherein the automated dispensing machine includes an automated cash dispensing device, wherein the automated cash dispensing device is operative to dispense the cash. 38. The facility according to claim 37 wherein the automated dispensing machine is operative to receive cash from a first customer, and wherein the automated cash dispensing device is operative to dispense cash received from the first customer to a second customer. 