Method and apparatus for three-dimensional mapping for automotive diagnostics and repair and other uses enables mapping of separate regions of a vehicle with a linking mapping step between the apparatus used for mapping the two regions, the linking mapping step using the transmission of an energy signal between the two sets of apparatus to establish their relative three-dimensional coordinates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of three-dimensional coordinate determination adapted for mapping operations in relation to vehicles, the method comprising: carrying out first and second series of coordinate data evaluation steps employing two sets of coordinate data evaluation apparatus respectively in relation to first and second regions of a vehicle, and transmitting an energy signal establishing the relative coordinates of the regions, the energy signal being transmitted between transfer components forming respective parts of the two sets of apparatus, the energy signal being transmitted while each of the transfer components is in a defined positional relationship to its respective one of the first and second regions of the vehicle. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the transmitting of the energy signal establishing the relative coordinates of the regions is effected via an intermediate transmitter or receiver disposed between the transfer components of the two sets of apparatus. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein both of the transfer components receive an energy signal transmitted by an intermediate transmitter. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the intermediate transmitter emits energy signals simultaneously to both transfer components. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the intermediate transmitter is hand held. 6. A method according to claim 3, wherein the intermediate transmitter emits energy signals non-simultaneously to both receiver means. 7. The method according to claim 2, wherein both of the transfer components transmit an energy signal to an intermediate receiver. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein both of the transfer components emit energy signals simultaneously to the intermediate receiver. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the intermediate receiver is hand held. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein the transfer components emit energy signals non-simultaneously to the intermediate receiver. 11. Apparatus for three-dimensional coordinate determination adapted for mapping operations in relation to vehicles, the apparatus comprising: first and second sets of coordinate data evaluation apparatus for respectively carrying out first and second series of coordinate data evaluation steps respectively in relation to first and second regions of a vehicle; and transmission means for the transmission of an energy signal, establishing the relative coordinates of the regions, between the first and second sets, the transmission means including transfer components respectively included in the sets and each disposed in a defined positional relationship to its respective one of the first and second regions of the vehicle during transmission of the energy signal. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the transmission means includes an intermediate transmitter or receiver between the transfer components and in communication with each. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein both of said the transfer components are energy signal receiver means and the intermediate transmitter or receiver means is an energy signal emitter means adapted to emit energy signals to both such receiver means. 14. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein both of the transfer components are energy signal emitter means and the intermediate transmitter or receiver means is an energy signal receiver means adapted to receive energy signals from both such emitter means. 15. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the intermediate transmitter or receiver is a hand-held device. 