A rail restraining, robotic welding and weld delivery device uses a frame for supporting a welding head with a clamp for restraining a first rail end and a second rail end and a base twist assembly for aligning said first end and second end. An interconnected weld containment apparatus pivotally connects to the clamp by use of a cam actuated linear pin. This arrangement is operable in an environment in clearance between rails and sufficiently compact that it may be operated from and carried in a truck based on a standard over the road truck or from a container.
Claims We claim: 1. A rail restraining, weld containment, robotic welding apparatus and weld delivery apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head, said apparatus comprising: a first frame for supporting a clamp, a robotic welding apparatus and a weld containment apparatus and adapted for aligning a welding head; said clamp adapted for restraining the first and second ends; said weld containment apparatus connected to said clamp and engageable with said ends by movement having a pivotal and longitudinal component; a mobile weld delivery unit delivering materials through an umbilical to said robotic welding apparatus having a welding device proximate said ends so that a weld can be made joining said ends. 2. The weld delivery unit of claim 1 further comprising: said mobile weld delivery unit comprising a separate body and robotic welding apparatus; said mobile weld delivery unit carrying said rail restraint, wherein said rail restraint has said weld containment apparatus and said robotic welding apparatus releasably attached thereto; said rail restraint and said attachments being retractably and deployably carried in said body; said robotic welding apparatus being connected to said mobile weld delivery unit by use of a coupling; said robotic welding apparatus being automatically controlled by a controller through said coupling, said controller calibrating the operation of said weld relative to the location of said rails. 3. The weld delivery unit of claim 2 further comprising: said weld operation calibration being performed based on touch sensing different locations on said rails. 4. The weld delivery unit of claim 3 further comprising: said controller coacting with said robotic welding apparatus through said umbilical to position a welding device based on said calibrated reference; said robot welding apparatus having a base and a main axis, said main axis being aligned with the longitudinal axis of said rail. 5. The weld delivery unit of claim 4 further comprising: said weld delivery unit including an induction heater for preheating said rails prior to welding. 6. The induction heater of claim 5 further comprising, said induction heater is usable for post weld heat treating. 7. A rail restraining apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail heads said apparatus comprising; a first frame for supporting a clamp and adapted to support a weld containment apparatus and having an alignment fixture; said first frame having a fixed downwardly depending arm and a movable downwardly depending arm spaced therefrom defining a rail receiving space therebetween; said movable arm being eccentrically pivoted on said first frame to enable capturing of a rail in said space; said clamp adapted for restraining the first and second ends; said fixture being formed and arranged for receiving and providing a base for a robotic welding apparatus; said welding apparatus moves in a selected pattern during the welding operation, said movement being automatically controlled. 8. The rail restraint of claim 7 further comprising: said movable arm being pivoted about a first pivot and a clamping force being applied to and released from a second pivot displaced from said first pivot. 9. A rail weld delivery apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head, said apparatus comprising: a mobile weld delivery unit delivering a rail restraint, a weld containment apparatus and a robotic welding apparatus having a welding device proximate said ends so that a weld can be made joining said ends; said mobile weld delivery unit attachable to a body or container; said robotic welding apparatus is connected to said mobile weld delivery unit by use of a coupling; said robotic welding apparatus, having a robotic arm, performs a welding operation by starting said robotic arm at a calibrated point and moving said robotic arm in a controlled pattern while welding; said robotic arm movement while welding being automatically controlled by a controller through said coupling, said controller calibrating the operation of said weld relative to the location of said rails. 10. The weld delivery unit of claim 9 further comprising: said weld operation calibration being performed based on touch sensing different locations on said rails. 11. The weld delivery unit of claim 10 further comprising: said controller coacting with a robotic welding apparatus through an umbilical to position a welding device based on said calibrated reference; said robotic welding apparatus having a base and a main axis, said main axis being aligned with the longitudinal axis of said rail. 12. The weld delivery unit of claim 11 further comprising: said weld delivery unit including an induction heater for preheating said rails prior to welding. 13. The induction heater of claim 12 further comprising, said induction heater is usable for post weld heat treating. 14. A robotic welding apparatus for enabling the joining of a first rail end and a second rail end, each end being formed in a sectional profile with a rail base, a rail web and a rail head comprising: said robotic welding apparatus being connectable to a rail wherein said robotic welding apparatus having a base and main axis, said main axis being aligned with the longitudinal axis of said rail, said robotic welding apparatus having a robotic arm that can be programmed to weld together said first rail end and said second rail end. 15. The robotic welding apparatus in claim 14 further including an umbilical attached to a weld delivery unit wherein said umbilical transmits information to and from said weld delivery unit and further transfers welding materials to said robotic welding apparatus. 16. The robotic welding apparatus in claim 15 further including an attachment so said robotic welding apparatus can be releasably attached to a rail restraint device. 17. The robotic welding apparatus in claim 16 wherein movement of said robotic welding apparatus while welding is being automatically controlled by a controller through said umbilical, said controller calibrating the operation of said weld relative to the location of said rails; said weld operation calibration being performed based on touch sensing different locations on said rails. 18. The robotic welding apparatus in claim 15 further including an attachment so said robotic welding apparatus can be releasably attached to one of a rail restraint device or a weld containment device. 19. The robotic welding apparatus in claim 15 further including an attachment so said robotic welding apparatus can be releasably attached to a rail restraint device and a weld containment device. 