An advanced process for moving a Device under Test (DUT) from surface mount to completion and shipping. The process takes a raw populated Printed Circuit Board (PCB) panel or similar article of manufacture and conducts all possible solder, electrical, boundary scan and flashed self-testing. Individual panels are routed out of larger panels and placed into basic electronic device chassis on a motorized and power delivering fixture carrying a fixture adapter to interface with the electronic device. Power is provided as soon as is feasible in order to leverage the DUTs ability to facilitate it's own functional certification. Without power, the "wake-up" time for an electronic device may be extensive. Additionally, the addition of power would otherwise have to be done numerous times throughout the process. Conditions for impending measurement can be set up on a powered electronic device so that measurements may be made the moment the testing instrumentation is ready to take measurements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for handling an electronic device under test, comprising: a platform to mount said electronic device; a power supply; means coupled to said power supply for said motorized transport of said apparatus on a track and to power said electronic device while said electronic device is being tested; and a low power addressable RE transmit/receiver to provide a wireless interface to the apparatus and the electronic device under test. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a removable adapter interface/mounting assembly to provide for universal mounting of electronic device on a conductive interface to the electronic device; and a galvanic socket to provide a conductive path from a piece of test equipment to said electronic device. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claims 1 or 2, further comprising: a diagnostics port to provide status of said apparatus and to configure said apparatus. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claims 1 or 2 wherein said power supply is provide by a power rail coupled to said track. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claims 1 or 2 wherein said power supply is a battery pack. 6. A method for distributive testing of an electronic device mounted on a moving handling system using short range communication, said method comprising the steps of: signaling approach of an impending test by having movable handling system in communication of a master control system; directing said electronic device to place itself in a required state thereby ready to receive a plurality wireless testing signals from at least one of a plurality of short range communication devices when said electronic device enters said at least one of a plurality of short range communication devices range; and performing a selected series of actions after said electronic device crosses into effective communication range said at least one of said plurality of short range communication devices. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of monitoring by a means for inspection which confirm/deny presence and placement of a plurality of components. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein said actions are performed in an RF shielded cell further comprising the step of: inserting a male jack of a robotic arm in a receivable radio frequency galvanic socket on said moving handling system, wherein said male jack and said robotic arm provide an unbroken calibrated galvanic connection with said electronic device; interfacing said moving handling system with test equipment via said unbroken calibrated galvanic connection with said electronic device via said male jack and said robotic arm wherein said robotic arm moves with said moving handling system; and extraction of said jack of said robotic when said actions are completed. 9. An power delivering fixture to transport a mobile station during testing, comprising: a platform to mount said mobile station; a power supply to provide power to said power delivering fixture and said mobile station during testing; means coupled to said power supply for said motorized transport of said power delivering fixture on a track; and a low power addressable RF transmit/receiver to provide a wireless interface to said power delivering fixture and said mobile station during testing. 10. The power delivering fixture as set forth in claim 9, further comprising: a removable adapter interface/mounting assembly to provide for universal mounting of said mobile station on a conductive interface to said mobile station; and a galvanic socket to provide a conductive path from a piece of test equipment to said mobile station. 11. The power delivering fixture as set forth in claims 9 or 10, further comprising: a diagnostics port to provide status of said power delivering fixture and to configure said power delivering fixture. 12. The power delivering fixture as set forth in claims 9 or 10 wherein said power supply is provide by a power rail coupled to said track. 13. The power delivering fixture as set forth in claims 9 or 10 wherein said power supply is a battery pack. 