An oxide and an oxynitride films and their methods of fabrication are described. The oxide or the oxynitride film is grown on a substrate that is placed in a deposition chamber. A silicon source gas (or a silicon source gas with a nitridation source gas) and an oxidation source gas are decomposed in the deposition chamber using a thermal energy source. A silicon oxide (or an oxynitride) film is formed above the substrate wherein total pressure for the deposition chamber is maintained in the range of 50 Torr to 350 Torr and wherein a flow ratio for the silicon source gas (or the silicon source gas with the nitridiation source gas) and the oxidation source gas is in the range of 1:50 to 1:10000 during a deposition process.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming a silicon oxynitride film including: placing a substrate in a deposition chamber and obtaining a desired process temperature and a desired process pressure; flowing an oxidation source gas into said deposition chamber at a first desired flow rate for a first predetermined amount of time after said desired process temperature and said desired process pressure are obtained; diverting a silicon source gas away from said deposition chamber, said diverting having said silicon source gas flow at a second desired flow rate and said diverting occurring before forming said silicon oxynitride film; stopping said diverting and flowing said silicon source gas at said second desired flow rate into said deposition chamber; decomposing said silicon source gas and said oxidation source gas in said deposition chamber using a thermal energy source; forming said silicon oxynitride film above said substrate wherein said desired process pressure is between of 50 to 350 Torr, wherein said desired process temperature is between 400.degree. to 800.degree. C., and wherein a flow ratio for said silicon source gas and said oxidation source gas is between 1:50 to 1:10000; wherein said silicon source gas is mixed with a nitridation source gas; terminating said silicon source gas into said deposition chamber while maintaining said flowing of said oxidation source gas in said deposition chamber for a second predetermined amount of time; and purging said deposition chamber with a cleaning gas. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said silicon source gas is selected from the group consisting of silane, disilane, methylsilane, and halogenated silanes. 3. A method as in claim 1 further including mixing said silicon source gas with said oxidation source gas prior to said forming of said silicon oxynitride film. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein said oxidation source gas is selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide, ozone, and TEOS. 5. A hod as in claim 1 wherein said nitrogen source gas is selected from the group consisting of an ammonium source gas, ammonia, and hydrazine. 6. A process of forming an oxide film including: depositing a substrate in a deposition chamber, said deposition chamber designed such that thermal low-pressure chemical vapor deposition process is utilized to form said oxide film on said substrate said deposition chamber further includes a water passage to create a cold wall deposition chamber, a resistively heated heater pocket to heat up said substrate wherein said substrate is horizontally placed on said heater pocket and a gas distribution point for injecting reactant gases into said deposition chamber; flowing a silicon source gas and an oxidation source gas into said distribution point wherein said distribution point is located above said resistively heated heater pocket; decomposing said silicon source gas and said oxidation source gas using a thermal energy source from said deposition chamber; and forming said oxide film on said substrate. 7. A method as in claim 6 wherein said silicon source gas is selected from the group consisting of silane, disilane, methylsilane, and halogenated silanes. 8. A method as in claim 6 further including mixing said silicon source gas with said oxidation source gas prior to said forming of said silicon oxynitride film. 9. A method as in claim 6 wherein said oxidation source gas is selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide, ozone, and TEOS. 10. A method as in claim 6 wherein said nitrogen source gas is selected from the group consisting of an ammonium source gas, ammonia, and hydrazine. 