A method of stripping coating from a portion of a coated surface of a component. The method includes fastening a mask sheet to the component over a region adjacent the portion of the coated surface. The mask sheet has a contour generally corresponding to a contour of the surface of the component. A high pressure fluid jet is sprayed from a spray head toward the portion of the coated surface after the mask sheet is fastened to the component to strip the coating from the portion of the surface. After the coating is stripped from the portion of the surface, the mask sheet is removed from the component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of stripping coating from a portion of a coated surface of a component, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a mask sheet over a coated region of the component adjacent said portion of the coated surface; fastening the positioned mask sheet to the component, at least a portion of said fastened sheet having a contour corresponding to a contour of the surface of the component; spraying a pressurized fluid jet from a spray head toward the portion of the coated surface after the mask sheet is fastened to the component to strip the coating from the portion of the surface without removing coating from the coated region protected by the mask sheet; and removing the mask sheet from the component after the coating is stripped from the portion of the surface. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of biasing the mask sheet toward the surface to shape the sheet to have the contour corresponding to the contour of the surface of the component. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the step of biasing the mask sheet toward the surface is performed at discrete locations along the mask sheet. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the discrete locations are located within at least one edge margin of the mask sheet. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the mask sheet covers substantially all of the coated surface of the component except the portion to be stripped. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the high pressure fluid jet is only sprayed toward the portion of the coated surface and edge margins of the mask sheet during the spraying step. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: spraying a thermal barrier system on the portion of the coated surface after said portion is stripped. 8. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of spraying the thermal system is performed after the mask sheet is removed from the component. 