A system and method of obtaining perfusion data for cerebral tissue is described. The system includes a C-arm X-ray device and a computing system configured to obtain sets of rotational projection X-ray data suitable for reconstructing 3D voxel data sets. A first data set is obtained of the patient, and then contrast material is injected into the vascular system to obtain a second 1 data set. A first voxel data set is subtracted from the second voxel data set, and the resultant data set is processed so as to segment the contrast-enhanced vasculature from the remaining data. The segmented voxels are subtracted from the resultant voxel data set, so as to yield a functional data set representing the difference between the attenuation of the tissues after administering contrast agent and the tissues prior to administering the contrast agent, without the contrast enhanced vasculature. The attenuation of the functional data set represents the perfusion or cerebral blood volume (CBV).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for obtaining perfusion images comprising: a C-arm X-ray device; and a computer operative to: accept a plurality of projection X-ray images representing a first data set of a patient and a second data set of a patient; convert each of the first data set and the second data set to form a first volumetric data set and a second volumetric data set, respectively; process the second volumetric data set to form a data set of segmented contrast-enhanced blood vessels; excise the segmented contrast-enhanced blood vessels from the second volumetric data set to form a third volumetric data set; and subtract the first volumetric data set from the third volumetric data set to form a fourth volumetric data set that represents a cerebral blood volume (CBV) on a voxel-by-voxel basis, wherein the second data set is contrast-enhanced data. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computation of the CBV is performed on a voxel-by-voxel basis. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer is operative to process the data set of segmented contrast-enhanced blood vessels to form a set of projection radiographs corresponding to projection radiographs of the second data set. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the computer is operative to subtract a plurality of projection images formed from the data set of segmented contrast-enhanced blood vessels from corresponding projection radiographs of the second data set. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the computer is operative to: interpolate projection images resulting from the subtraction of the plurality of projection images from the corresponding projection radiographs between values at internal boundaries of the images corresponding to outer boundaries of the projected, segmented, contrast-enhanced blood vessels to form new projection images; and reconstruct the new projection images to form the third volumetric data set. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer is operative to subtract the first volumetric data set from the third volumetric data set on a voxel-by-voxel basis to form a functional voxel data set. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the functional voxel data set is used to compute the CBV. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the third volumetric data set is used to compute a CT-slice, a 3D image, or a combination thereof. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the CT-slice, the 3D image, or the CT-slice and the 3D images are displayed in false color, the false color being representative of the CBV of voxels of a functional voxel data set. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the computer is operative to superimpose the segmented contrast-enhanced blood vessels on images produced from the functional data set. 11. A method of computing perfusion of a patient, the method comprising: obtaining a first computed tomographic (CT)-like data set and processing the first CT-like data set so that a first voxel data set is produced; administering a contrast agent; obtaining a second CT-like data set and processing the second CT-like data set so that a second voxel data set of contrast-enhanced data is produced; subtracting the first voxel data set from the second voxel data set to form a third voxel data set; segmenting the third voxel data set so as to obtain a fourth voxel data set representing contrast-enhanced vasculature; excising the fourth voxel data set from the third voxel data set to form a fifth voxel data set; and interpreting an attenuation of each voxel of the fifth voxel data set as representing a perfusion value of a parenchyma. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein administering the contrast agent includes vascularly administering the contrast agent and stabilizing a density of the contrast agent in a cerebral volume such that the density remains stable during a period of time when the second CT-like data set is obtained. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the fifth voxel data set is processed to form CT-slice images. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the fourth voxel data set is processed to overlay the segmented contrast-enhanced vasculature on at least some of the CT-slice images formed from the fifth voxel data set. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: processing the fourth voxel data set to form a first plurality of 2-dimensional radiographic mask images, and subtracting the first plurality of 2-dimensional radiographic mask images from a corresponding second plurality of 2-dimensional radiographic images obtained during the obtaining of the second CT-like data set to form a third plurality of 2-dimensional radiographic images; reconstructing a sixth voxel data set from the third plurality of 2-dimensional radiographic images; and subtracting the first voxel data set from a seventh voxel data set for computing the perfusion. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein each 2-dimensional radiographic image of the third plurality of 2-dimensional radiographic images is interpolated within a region where the segmented contrast-enhanced vasculature is subtracted. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the perfusion is measured quantitatively as cerebral blood volume (CBV). 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the patient remains on a patient support table of a C-arm X-ray device during the obtaining of the first CT-like data set and the second CT-like data set. 19. A computer program product, the product being stored or distributed on a non-transitory computer readable medium, the product comprising: instructions executable on a computer so as to configure the computer to: obtain a first computed tomographic (CT)-like data set and process the first CT-like data set so that a first voxel data set is produced; obtain a second CT-like data set where the patient has been administered an intravascular contrast agent and process the second CT-like data set so that a second voxel data set is produced; subtract the first voxel set from the second voxel set to produce a third voxel set, the third voxel data set including contrast enhanced vasculature; form a fourth voxel data set from the contrast-enhanced vasculature of the third voxel data set by segmenting the contrast-enhanced vasculature of the third voxel data set; and excise the fourth voxel data set from the third voxel data set to form a fifth voxel data set. 