Two independently articulated arms, each having at least two independent axes of motion, support an X-ray tube and X-ray detector, respectively, are mounted offset to the patient and controlled to simulate a wide variety of conventional X-ray positioners. The two arms are each supported at one end by a common base wherein the common base provides at least one common axis of motion for both the first and second articulated arms. Further, an axis controller sends movement signals to the common axis and independent axes and receives position signals from the common axis and independent axes to coordinate movement of the first and second arms according to a predefined program.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-operating mode x-ray imaging system comprising: an x-ray source producing an x-ray beam directed along a source axis; an x-ray detector detecting x-rays received along a detector axis; a first and second articulated arm each having at least two independent axes of motion, the first articulated arm holding the x-ray source at its first end, the second articulated arm holding the x-ray detector at its first end; a common base supporting second ends of the first and second articulated arms providing at least one common axis of motion for both the first and second articulated arms; and an axis controller sending movement signals to the common axis and independent axes and receiving position signals from the common axis and independent axes to coordinate movement of the first and second arms according to a predefined program. 2. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the common axis of motion is rotation. 3. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the common axis of motion is translation along a direction selected from the group consisting of horizontal direction and vertical direction. 4. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the independent axes of motion are angulation. 5. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 4 wherein the independent axes of motion are parallel. 6. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 where each articulated arm has three independent axes of motion. 7. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 6 wherein one of the independent axes of motion is translation. 8. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 5 wherein the axis of translation effects a separation between a first axis providing axes of angulation positioned near the first end of the articulated arm and a second axis providing an axis of angulation next removed from the first end of the articulated arm. 9. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to simulate a rigid arm joining the x-ray source with the x-ray detector during movement of both the x-ray detector and x-ray source. 10. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to hold the axes of the x-ray source and x-ray detector in alignment with movement of the x-ray source and x-ray detector. 11. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 10 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to maintain the axes of the x-ray source and x-ray detector in alignment with a direction selected form the group consisting of vertical and horizontal during motion of the x-ray source. 12. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the independent axes to orbit about a point not intercepted by any individual of axes of angular movement of the first and second articulated arm. 13. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 1 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the first and second arms to change the distance separating the x-ray detector and x-ray source by controlling the angulation of at least two axes of motion. 14. A multi-operating mode x-ray imaging systemic comprising: a patient support; an x-ray source producing an x-ray beam directed along a source axis; an x-ray detector detecting x-rays received along a detector axis; a first and second articulated arm each having at least two independent axes of motion, the first articulated arm holding the x-ray source at its first end, the second articulated arm holding the x-ray detector at its first end, wherein second ends of the first and second arms are positioned on a common side of the patient support; and an axis controller sending movement signals to the common side and independent axes and receiving position signals from the common side and independent axes to coordinate movement of the axes of the first and second arms according to a predefined program. 15. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the independent axes of motion are angulation. 16. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the independent axes of motion are parallel. 17. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 where each articulated arm has three independent axes of motion. 18. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 17 wherein one of the independent axes of motion is translation. 19. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 18 wherein the axis of translation effects a separation between a first axis providing axes of angulation positioned near the first end of the articulated arm and a second axis providing an axis of angulation next removed from the first end of the articulated arm. 20. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to simulate a rigid arm joining the x-ray source with the x-ray detector during movement of both the x-ray detector and x-ray source. 21. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to hold the axes of the x-ray source and x-ray detector in alignment with movement of the x-ray source and x-ray detector. 22. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the axes of motion of the articulated arms so as to maintain the axes of the x-ray source and x-ray detector in alignment with a direction selected from the group consisting of vertical and horizontal during motion of the x-ray source. 23. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the independent axes to orbit about a point not intercepted by any individual of axes of angular movement of the first and second articulated arm. 24. The multimode x-ray imaging system recited in claim 14 wherein the axis controller coordinates movement of the first and second arms to change the distance separating the x-ray detector and x-ray source by controlling the angulation of at least two axes of motion. 