The invention provides a method for inhibiting proliferation of neural cells. The neural cells can be tumor cells, glial cells, neuronal cells, and cells of the central or peripheral nervous systems. The method comprises contacting a neural cell with a molecule that disrupts the biological activity of a granulin molecule. In one embodiment, the molecule is an antibody directed against a granulin peptide. In other embodiments, the molecule is an antisense nucleotide directed against a granulin nucleic acid molecule, or a vaccine comprising a granulin peptide or a polynucleotide encoding a granulin peptide. The invention additionally provides methods for detecting and treating cancer in a neural tissue using granulin-related molecules. Also provided is a method for identifying differentially expressed gene products that are translated from mRNA species, using antibody-based screening of a cDNA expression library. This method, termed differential immuno-absorption (DIA), can be coupled to cDNA microarray hybridization and used in the identification of genes that play a role in the malignant progression of cancer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for inhibiting proliferation of neural tumor cells comprising contacting neural tumor cells with a molecule that disrupts the biological activity of granulin D, wherein the molecule is selected from an antibody directed against granulin D or an antisense polynucleotide which disrupts expression of acrogranin. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural tumor cells comprise glial cells. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural tumor cells comprise central nervous system (CNS) cells. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is an antibody directed against granulin D. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is an antisense polynucleotide which disrupts expression of acrogranin. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are glioblatoma, astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma cells. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are ependymoma, choroids plexus papilloma or medulloblastoma. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are Schwannonma, neurofibroma, or neuroilemmoma. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are neuronal, meningial, pineal or pituitary tumor cells. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are human cells. 11. A method for treating cancer of the nervous system in a subject, comprising administering to the subject having cancer of the nervous system an antibody directed against granulin D. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the cancer comprises glioblastoma, astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the cancer comprises ependymoma, choroid plexus papilloma or medulloblastoma. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the cancer comprises Schwannoma, neurofibroma, or neurilemmoma. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the cancer comprises a neuronal, meningial, pineal or pituitary tumor. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the cells are glioblastoma cells. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the cancer comprises glioblastoma. 