When extracting the castings (5, 6) produced in a mould foundry plant, comprising an extraction station receiving the moulds (1, 2, 3) with solidified castings (5, 6) positioned in the mould cavities at the mould-parting surface between mould parts a part of the casting (5) to be extracted is gripped in a fixed position and orientation before opening the mould cavity containing said casting, said gripping providing a positive, fixed engagement between the gripping tool (8) and the casting (5), the mould cavity containing the gripped casting (5) is opened by removing a first mould part (1), the gripped casting (5) is extracted from the mould cavity, and the casting (5) is moved to a delivery position for further processing thereof. This provides a possibility of delivery of the extracted casting (5) in a well-defined position and orientation for the further processing thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Method for extracting the castings produced in a mould foundry plant, comprising an extraction station receiving the mould parts with solidified castings positioned in the mould cavities at the mould-parting surface between mould parts, characterized by comprising the steps of: a) gripping a part of the casting to be extracted in a fixed position and orientation before opening the mould cavity containing said casting, said gripping providing a positive, fixed, direct engagement between a gripping tool and the casting, b) opening the mould cavity containing the gripped casting by removing a first mould part from the casting, c) after opening the mould cavity, extracting the gripped casting from the mould cavity, and d) moving the casting to a delivery position for further processing thereof. 2. Method in accordance with claim 1, characterized by comprising removing selected parts of the mould parts before step a) in order to provide a certain clearance for bringing the gripping tool into engagement with the part of the casting to be gripped in step a). 3. Method in accordance with claim 1, characterized by comprising insertion of a supporting structure under the casting before step c), said supporting structure following the subsequent movements of the gripping tool and the casting. 4. Method in accordance with claim 1, characterized by step b) comprising gripping the first mould part and removal thereof substantially in one piece and delivery of the removed mould part to a mould sand regeneration system. 5. Method in accordance with claim 1, characterized by comprising detecting the position of the moulds before step a) in order to correctly position the gripping toot relative to the part of the casting to be gripped. 6. Apparatus for extracting the castings produced in a mould foundry plant at an extraction station, said apparatus comprising: a conveying means for advancing the mould parts containing castings in a solid state in the casting cavities formed at the parting surfaces between mould parts, a gripping tool adapted to grip the casting to be extracted in a fixed position and orientation between the mould parts without opening the mould cavity containing said casting and to provide a positive, fixed, direct engagement with the casting, and means for removing a first mould part to open the mould cavity, said gripping tool being adapted to extract the gripped casting from the opened mould cavity and to move the gripped casting to a position in which the casting is delivered in a well-defined position and orientation for further processing. 7. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, characterized by further comprising means for removing parts of the mould adjacent the part of the casting to be gripped by the gripping tool. 8. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, characterized, by further comprising a supporting structure adapted to be inserted underneath the casting after removal of the first mould part, for supporting the casting during extraction and movement to the delivery position, said supporting structure being associated with the gripping tool. 9. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, characterized, by the means for removing the first mould part comprising a robot gripper adapted to grip and carry the first mould part and deliver the gripped mould part ainly in one piece to a mould-sand-regeneration system. 10. Apparatus in accordance with claim 6, characterized, by comprising means for detecting the position of the mould parts, said detecting being used to correctly position the gripping tool relative to the part of the casting to be gripped. 