A system for directing robot movement in a storage library is provided, the library comprising at least one horizontal array of storage cells and at least one robot that moves along the horizontal array and can retrieve objects from and place objects into the storage cells. The system comprises a guide rail that runs along the length of the horizontal array and loops around from one end of the horizontal array to the other end. The robot may move along the guide rail in a continuous, unidirectional loop. If multiple robots are added to the library, they can be made to move in the same direction along looping guide rail, thus elimination contention among robot movements. If multiple horizontal arrays are stacked vertically within the library, the looping guide rail allows robots to loop around and return to the same level or move onto a different horizontal level.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for directing robot movement in a storage library, the library comprising at least one horizontal array of storage cells, at least one media cartridge player and a plurality of robots that move along the horizontal array and can mount cartridges from storage cells into the cartridge player and dismount cartridges from cartridge player into cartridge storage cells, the system comprising: a return track that runs the length of the horizontal storage cell array, wherein the return track loops from one end of the horizontal array to the other end; and a direction control mechanism that permits the robots to move in only one direction along the horizontal array, wherein the return track serves as a return path in the opposite direction such that the robots avoid contention with access to the storage cells and cartridge player. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the direction-control mechanism comprises control software. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the storage library further comprises: a plurality of stacked horizontal storage cell arrays connected by vertical guide rails that allow the robots to move between the horizontal arrays. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the storage library is contained within an enclosure. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein part of the return track runs outside of the library enclosure. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the return track runs above the library enclosure. 7. A system for directing robot movement in a storage library, the library comprising at least one horizontal array of storage cells, at least one media cartridge player and a plurality of robots that move along the horizontal array and can mount cartridges from storage cells into the cartridge player and dismount cartridges from cartridge player into cartridge storage cells, the system comprising: return track that runs the length of the horizontal storage cell array, wherein the return track loops from one end of the horizontal array to the other end; and a direction control mechanism that permits the robots to move in only one direction along the horizontal array, wherein the return track serves as a return path in the opposite direction such that the robots avoid contention with access to the storage cells and cartridge player, wherein the cartridge player is located at one end of the horizontal storage cell array, wherein robots on the horizontal array move toward the cartridge player, and wherein robots on the return track move away from the cartridge player. 8. The system according to claim 7, further comprising a plurality of media cartridge players, wherein all of the cartridge players are located at the same end of the horizontal storage cell array. 9. A system for directing robot movement in a storage library, the library comprising at least one horizontal array of storage cells, at least one media cartridge player and a plurality of robots that move along the horizontal array and can mount cartridges from storage cells into the cartridge player and dismount cartridges from cartridge player into cartridge storage cells, the system comprising: a return track that runs the length of the horizontal storage cell array, wherein the return track loops from one end of the horizontal array to the other end; and a direction control mechanism that permits the robots to move in only one direction along the horizontal array, wherein the return track serves as a return path in the opposite direction such that the robots avoid contention with access to the storage cells and cartridge player, wherein the direction-control mechanism comprises unidirectional track switches connecting the return track and horizontal storage cell array. 