An interface block (300) carries a removable electrical connection (310, 312) that can be quickly connected and removed from a high speed machine for picking and placing electronic components. The interface block is attached to a vacuum ported tool changer (200) which further couples to a heated end effector (100) to create a removable heated nozzle assembly (50). The entire assembly can be easily plugged into and removed from a high speed placement machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a high speed machine for picking and placing electronic components, a heated nozzle assembly, comprising: a vacuum ported tool changer, a replaceable heated end effector, and an interface block; and the interface block mechanically mounted on the vacuum ported tool changer and electrically connected to the replaceable heated end effector, and having one or more electrical contacts arranged to be removably connected to the high speed machine. 2. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 1, wherein the one or more electrical contacts comprise pluggable connections. 3. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 1, wherein the one or more electrical contacts comprise surface mount connections. 4. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 1, wherein the one or more electrical contacts are selected from the group consisting of power, ground, temperature measurement, pressure sensing, and optical sensors. 5. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 4, wherein the power and ground connections are a male connector, and wherein the temperature measurement connection is a female connector. 6. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 1, further comprising a force compliant electrical contact assembly between the interface block and the replaceable heated end effector. 7. In a high speed machine for picking and placing electronic components, a heated nozzle assembly, comprising: a vacuum ported tool changer, a replaceable heated end effector, and an interface block; the interface block mechanically mounted on the vacuum ported tool changer and electrically connected to the replaceable heated end effector; and the interface block having power and ground electrical contacts and temperature measuring contacts arranged to provide pluggable connections to the high speed machine. 8. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 7, wherein the power and ground contacts are a male connector, and wherein the temperature measuring contacts are a female connector. 9. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 7, further comprising a force compliant electrical contact assembly between the interface block and the replaceable heated end effector. 10. In a high speed machine for picking and placing electronic components, a heated nozzle assembly, comprising: a vacuum ported tool changer, a replaceable heated end effector, and an interface block; the interface block mechanically mounted on the vacuum ported tool changer and electrically connected to the replaceable heated end effector, and having one or more electrical contacts arranged to be removably connected to the high speed machine; the replaceable heated end effector comprising an adapter flange, a heater plate and a heated tip; said heater plate having one or more heating elements disposed thereon and arranged to thermally communicate with said heated tip; said adapter flange having an upper side arranged to removably couple to said vacuum ported tool changer, and having one or more electrical contacts arranged to communicate with said heating elements; said heated tip having a vacuum pickup portion for picking up said electronic components; wherein apertures in each of said adapter flange said heater plate and said heated tip are arranged so as to communicate a vacuum from said vacuum ported tool changer to said vacuum pickup portion; and fastening means to connect said adapter flange, said heater plate and said heated tip together. 11. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 10, wherein the one or more electrical contacts comprise pluggable connections. 12. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 10, wherein the one or more electrical contacts comprise surface mount connections. 13. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 10, wherein the one or more electrical contacts are selected from the group consisting of power, ground, temperature measurement, pressure sensing, and optical sensors. 14. The heated nozzle assembly as described in claim 13, wherein the power and ground connections are a male connector, and wherein the temperature measurement connection is a female connector. 15. The heated noble assembly as described in claim 10, further comprising a force compliant electrical contact assembly between the interface block and the replaceable heated end effector. 