A drive mechanism is provided for omnidirectional and holonomic motion control of a vehicle. The drive mechanism may be used in a wide variety of applications where omnidirectional vehicles are advantageous, such as forklifts, aircraft maintenance platforms, robotic systems, wheelchairs, and recreational vehicles. The drive mechanism includes at least one wheel assembly rotatably coupled to a vehicle chassis, the wheel assembly including at least two wheels coupled to a wheel assembly chassis. The drive mechanism further includes a wheel constraint module configured to control the orientation of the wheels and a power module configured to rotate the wheel assembly. Vehicle motion may be controlled by actuation of the wheel constraint and power modules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drive mechanism: at least one tracking device assembly rotatably coupled about a tracking device assembly axis to a chassis; said tracking device assembly including a plurality of tracking devices coupled to a tracking device assembly chassis; each of said plurality of tracking devices configured for mutually distinct orientation; a tracking device constraint module coupled to said tracking devices, said tracking device constraint module being configured to control orientation of said tracking devices; and said tracking device assembly configured for being rotationally driven about the tracking device assembly axis. 2. The drive mechanism of claim 1 wherein: said tracking device assembly is a wheel assembly; said tracking device assembly axis is a wheel assembly axis; said plurality of tracking devices is a plurality of wheels, each of said plurality of wheels including a wheel axis; said tracking device assembly chassis is a wheel assembly chassis; said tracking device constraint module is a wheel constraint module; and said chassis is a vehicle chassis. 3. The drive mechanism of claim 2 being a substantially omnidirectional drive mechanism. 4. The drive mechanism of claim 2 being a substantially holonomic drive mechanism. 5. The drive mechanism of claim 2 comprising two wheel assemblies rotatably coupled about mutually distinct wheel assembly axes to said vehicle chassis. 6. The drive mechanism of claim 2 wherein said wheel assembly includes three wheels. 7. The drive mechanism of claim 6 wherein said three wheels are disposed in a substantially equilateral triangular pattern about said wheel assembly. 8. The drive mechanism of claim 2 comprising a plurality of wheel assemblies rotatably coupled about mutually distinct wheel assembly axes to said vehicle chassis and wherein each of said wheel assemblies includes three wheels. 9. The drive mechanism of claim 2 wherein each of said wheels are rotatably mounted to a wheel housing, said wheel housing being rotatably mounted to said wheel assembly chassis. 10. The drive mechanism of claim 2 wherein said wheel assembly comprises an intercept point, the wheel axes of said wheels being constrained by said wheel constraint module to intercept at said intercept point. 11. The drive mechanism of claim 10 wherein the position of said intercept point relative to said wheel assembly axis is adjustable. 12. The drive mechanism of claim 11 wherein said position of said intercept point relative to said wheel assembly axis is adjustable in two dimensions, said two dimensions defining a plane substantially perpendicular to said wheel assembly axis. 13. The drive mechanism of claim 10 wherein a change of the position of said intercept point relative to said wheel assembly axis effects a change in drive velocity of said drive mechanism. 14. The drive mechanism of claim 2 wherein said wheel constraint module comprises a constraint ring coupled to said wheels, said constraint ring including a central axis. 15. The drive mechanism of claim 14 wherein the wheel axes of said wheels intercept at said central axis of said constraint ring. 16. The drive mechanism of claim 14 wherein the position of said constraint ring relative to said wheel assembly axis is adjustable in two dimensions, said two dimensions defining a plane substantially perpendicular to said central axis. 17. The drive mechanism of claim 14 wherein movement of said constraint ring effects a change in the orientation of at least one of said wheels. 18. The drive mechanism of claim 14 wherein each of said wheels is coupled to said constraint ring by a follower arm extending in a direction substantially parallel to said wheel axis but offset therefrom by a distance substantially equal to an outer radius of said constraint ring. 19. The drive mechanism of claim 18 wherein said follower arm is offset from said wheel axis and coupled to said wheel by an offset link. 20. The drive mechanism of claim 18 wherein said follower arm is biased against said constraint ring. 21. The drive mechanism of claim 14 wherein: said constraint ring is mounted in a housing; the position of said housing relative to said wheel assembly axis being adjustable in two dimensions, said two dimensions defining a plane substantially perpendicular to said central axis. 22. The drive mechanism of claim 21 wherein: said housing is slidably mounted on one or more longitudinal guides; an actuator coupled to said housing; and actuation of said actuator adjusts the position of said housing along said longitudinal guide. 23. The drive mechanism of claim 22 wherein: said housing, said one or more longitudinal guides, and said actuator comprise a frame assembly; said frame assembly is slidably mounted on one or more transverse guides, said transverse guide being disposed in a substantially perpendicular orientation to said longitudinal guide; said frame assembly is coupled to an other actuator; and actuation of said other actuator adjusts the position of said frame assembly along said transverse guide. 24. The drive mechanism of claim 2 wherein rotation of said wheel assembly about said wheel assembly axis propels said vehicle. 25. The drive mechanism of claim 2 further comprising a power module coupled to said wheel assembly, said power module configured to rotate said wheel assembly about said wheel assembly axis. 26. The drive mechanism of claim 25 wherein said power module comprises an electric motor. 27. The drive mechanism of claim 25 wherein said power module comprises an internal combustion motor. 28. The drive mechanism of claim 2 further comprising a power module coupled to at least one of said plurality of wheels, said power module configured to rotate said wheel about its wheel axis. 29. The drive mechanism of claim 2 further including a controller coupled to said wheel constraint module. 30. The drive mechanism of claim 29 further including a control device coupled to said controller. 31. The drive mechanism of claim 1 wherein said plurality of tracking devices comprises a plurality of fins. 32. The drive mechanism of claim 1 wherein said plurality of tracking devices comprises a slidable device. 33. A vehicle comprising: at least one wheel assembly rotatably coupled about a wheel assembly axis to a vehicle chassis; said wheel assembly including at least two wheels coupled to a wheel assembly chassis, each of said wheels including a wheel axis; said wheels configured for mutually distinct orientation; a wheel constraint module coupled to said wheels, said wheel constraint module being configured to control orientation of said wheels; and a power module coupled to said wheel assembly, said power module configured to rotate said wheel assembly about said wheel assembly axis. 34. The vehicle of claim 33 wherein said vehicle is selected from the group consisting of forklifts, scissorlifts, aircraft support and maintenance platforms, motorized dollies, delivery trucks, industrial material handling vehicles, robotic systems, aircraft maintenance vehicles, wheelchairs, and recreational vehicles. 35. The vehicle of claim 33 wherein said vehicle chassis is a portion of a vehicle frame. 36. The vehicle of claim 33 wherein said vehicle is omnidirectional. 37. The vehicle of claim 33 wherein said vehicle is holonomic. 38. The vehicle of claim 33 comprising at least one additional wheel. 39. The vehicle of claim 38 wherein said at least one additional wheel comprises a caster wheel. 40. A method of propelling a vehicle comprising: using a vehicle including: at least one wheel assembly rotatably coupled about a wheel assembly axis to a vehicle chassis; the wheel assembly including at least two wheels coupled to a wheel assembly chassis; said wheels configured for mutually distinct orientation; and a wheel constraint module coupled to the wheels, the wheel constraint module being configured to control orientation of the wheels; rotating the wheel assembly about the wheel assembly axis; and actuating the constraint module to effect a change in orientation of at least one of the wheels. 