Implantable medical devices (IMDs) and their various components, particularly a simplified, miniature capacitor connector block and wiring harness utilizing an epoxy droplet and method of making same are disclosed. An electrode stack comprises a plurality of capacitor layers stacked in registration upon one another, each capacitor layer comprising a cathode layer having a cathode tab, an anode sub-assembly comprising at least one anode layer having an anode tab, and a separator layer located between adjacent anode and cathode layers. A connector assembly is electrically attached to the anode connection terminal for making electrical connection with anode tabs and to the cathode connection terminal for making electrical connection with cathode tabs. The connector block is formed on an encapsulation area of a case side wall of epoxy that is cured for a period of time under elevated temperature conditions while rotating the capacitor assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of making an electrolytic capacitor comprising: providing a capacitor case defining an interior case chamber, the case having a case side wall extending to a side wall upper opening edge, providing a cover adapted to be sealed against the side wall upper opening edge to enclose the interior case chamber, forming an electrode stack assembly, the electrode stack further comprising a plurality of capacitor layers stacked in registration upon one another, each capacitor layer comprising a cathode layer having a cathode tab, an anode sub-assembly comprising at least one anode layer having an anode tab, and a separator layer located between adjacent anode and cathode layers, whereby all adjacent cathode layers and anode layers of the stack are electrically insulated from one another by a separator layer, disposing the electrode stack assembly within the interior case chamber; electrically connecting the anode tabs to an anode terminal pin; extending the anode terminal pin through an anode opening of the capacitor case side wall providing an anode connection terminal at the exterior of said case in relation to an external encapsulation area of the case side wall; electrically connecting the cathode tabs to a cathode terminal pin; extending the cathode terminal pin to one of the capacitor case or through a cathode opening of the capacitor case side wall providing a cathode connection terminal in relation to said external encapsulation area; attaching a connector assembly comprising a wiring harness having lead wires with exposed ends to said anode and cathode connection terminals thereby making electrical connection with said anode and cathode tabs and forming a capacitor assembly; and forming a connector block comprising an epoxy droplet adhered to the encapsulation area of the capacitor side wall surrounding and encapsulating the anode and cathode connection terminals and the attached exposed ends of the wiring harness lead wires. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of extending an anode terminal pin further comprises: providing an anode feedthrough assembly further comprising a feedthrough pin having internal and external pin ends and a pin supporting insulating spacer; coupling said internal pin end with said plurality of anode tabs; fitting said pin supporting insulating spacer in the anode opening in said encapsulation area of said capacitor case side wall; and extending said external pin end through said pin supporting insulating spacer thereby disposing an external pin end away from said case to provide said anode connection terminal. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the epoxy droplet connector block fills any spaces and gaps of the supporting insulating spacer, the feedthrough pin and the anode opening. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of extending a cathode terminal pin further comprises: providing a cathode feedthrough assembly further comprising a feedthrough pin having internal and external pin ends and a pin supporting insulating spacer; coupling said internal pin end with said plurality of cathode tabs; fitting said pin supporting insulating spacer in the cathode opening in said encapsulation area of said capacitor case side wall; and extending said external pin end through said pin supporting insulating spacer thereby disposing an external pin end away from said case to provide said cathode connection terminal. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the epoxy droplet connector block fills any spaces and gaps of the supporting insulating spacer, the feedthrough pin and the cathode opening. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of extending a cathode terminal pin comprises: extending the cathode terminal pin through said cathode opening of the capacitor case side wall providing a cathode connection terminal extending outward in relation to said external encapsulation area; and welding the cathode terminal pin in the cathode opening to seal the cathode opening thereby disposing an external pin end away from said case to provide said cathode connection terminal. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of forming the epoxy droplet connector block comprises: applying a metered amount of uncured liquid epoxy to said external encapsulation area; and rotating said capacitor assembly during curing of said applied epoxy to form an epoxy droplet having a bulbous droplet shape. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of forming the epoxy droplet connector block comprises: applying a metered amount of uncured liquid epoxy to said external encapsulation area; and disposing said capacitor assembly in an elevated temperature environment and rotating said capacitor assembly during curing of said applied epoxy for a predetermined time to form an epoxy droplet having a bulbous droplet shape. 