A system for recognizing various human and creature motion gaits and behaviors is presented. These behaviors are defined as combinations of "gestures" identified on various parts of a body in motion. For example, the leg gestures generated when a person runs are different than when a person walks. The system described here can identify such differences and categorize these behaviors. Gestures, as previously defined, are motions generated by humans, animals, or machines. Multiple gestures on a body (or bodies) are recognized simultaneously and used in determining behaviors. If multiple bodies are tracked by the system, then overall formations and behaviors (such as military goals) can be determined.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of behavior recognition, comprising the steps of: storing a dynamic motion model representative of designated human behaviors in a form of differential equations having position and velocity components; sensing at least one human subject to be analyzed; representing the body of the subject as a plurality of connected, non-deformable links; determining the dynamic motion of the body, if any, by monitoring the position of the links in space as a function of time; using the dynamic motion to derive kinematic link relationships at specific body locations; comparing the kinematic link relationships to the position and velocity components; and, if a match is found, outputting the results of the comparison as the designated behavior. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior provides a generalized discrimination of suspicious or otherwise curious behaviors from normal activities. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior is used to identify an object or class of objects. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior is used to determine if a subject enters or leaves a field of view. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior represents a threat. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior represents a collision. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior represents loitering. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior represents the climbing of a barrier. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior represents the transfer of an object. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated behavior represents the use of a weapon. 