A miniature mobile robot provides a relatively inexpensive mobile robot. A mobile robot for searching an area provides a way for multiple mobile robots in cooperating teams. A robotic system with a team of mobile robots communicating information among each other provides a way to locate a source in cooperation. A mobile robot with a sensor, a communication system, and a processor, provides a way to execute a strategy for searching an area.
Claims We claim: 1. A miniature mobile robot, comprising: a) a robot body, comprising a plurality of circuit boards directly forming at least four sides of, and enclosing, the robot body; b) a sensor, mounted with the body; c) a communication system, responsive to the sensor, and communicating a sensor reading; and d) a processor, interfacing to the communication system, and generating a strategy for searching the area determined from the sensor reading. 2. The miniature mobile robot of claim 1, further comprising an energy source, housed within the robot body. 3. The miniature mobile robot of claim 2, further comprising: a) two drive wheels, powered by the energy source, and driving the robot; and b) a ball wheel, adapted as a motion contact point for the robot; c) wherein the robot has a tricycle configuration, determined by the two drive wheels and the ball wheel. 4. The miniature mobile robot of claim 3, further comprising a motor, driving the drive wheel. 5. The miniature mobile robot of claim 3, further comprising a converter, converting power from the energy source, and supplying power to the robot. 6. The miniature mobile robot of claim 3, wherein the energy source is a battery. 7. The miniature mobile robot of claim 1, further comprising a memory, accessible by the processor, for storing a plurality of sensor readings. 8. The miniature mobile robot of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a temperature sensor, measuring a temperature of the source. 9. The miniature mobile robot of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a locator, identifying a position of the robot. 10. The miniature mobile robot of claim 1, further comprising a base station, wherein the communication system communicates with the base station. 11. The miniature mobile robot of claim 10, wherein the communication system comprises a robot transceiver, and wherein the base station comprises a base station transceiver, responsive to the robot transceiver. 