A method is provided for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops by taking images of the drops.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops by taking images of the drops. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein taking images of the drops comprises taking a single image of each drop. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein taking images of the drops is performed without having to adjust a focus of an optical system taking the images. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein taking images of the drops comprises taking a single image of each drop. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the molecule is a protein. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein the macromolecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 11. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of between about 1 nL-750 nL. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of between about 1 nL-500 nL. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the drop has a volume of between about 1 nL-250 nL. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein each microcrystallization further includes a volume of mother liquor solution separate from the drop, the mother liquor solution contained in the volume having the same composition as the mother liquor solution contained in the drop, the volume comprising less than about 500 mL of the mother liquor solution. 15. The method according to claim 1 wherein each microcrystallization further includes a volume of mother liquor solution separate from the drop, the mother liquor solution contained in the volume having the same composition as the mother liquor solution contained in the drop, the volume comprising less than about 250 mL of the mother liquor solution. 16. The method according to claim 1 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 4 components which are varied within the array. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 5 components which are varied within the array. 18. The method according to claim 1 wherein the array includes greater than 96 microcrystallizations. 19. The method according to claim 1 wherein the array includes greater than 192 microcrystallizations. 20. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 48 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 21. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 96 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 22. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 192 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 23. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the drops within a volume range of less than about 25 nL. 24. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the drops within a volume range of less than about 20 nL. 25. The method according to claim 1 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the drops within a volume range of less than about 15 nL. 26. The method according to claim 1, the method further comprising solving the molecule's crystal structure by x-ray diffraction of a detected molecule crystal. 27. The method according to claim 26 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 28. The method according to claim 26 wherein the molecule is a protein. 29. The method according to claim 26 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 30. The method according to claim 26 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 31. The method according to claim 26 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 32. The method according to claim 31 wherein the molecule is a protein. 33. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a hanging drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops by taking images of the drops. 34. The method according to claim 33 wherein taking images of the drops comprises taking a single image of each drop. 35. The method according to claim 33 wherein taking images of the drops is performed without having to adjust a focus of an optical system taking the images. 36. The method according to claim 35 wherein taking images of the drops comprises taking a single image of each drop. 37. The method according to claim 33, the method further comprising solving the molecule's crystal structure by x-ray diffraction of a detected molecule crystal. 38. The method according to claim 37 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 39. The method according to claim 37 wherein the molecule is a protein. 40. The method according to claim 37 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 41. The method according to claim 37 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 42. The method according to claim 37 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 43. The method according to claim 42 wherein the molecule is a protein. 44. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a sitting drop comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the drop having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the drops in the array; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the drops by taking images of the drops. 45. The method according to claim 44 wherein taking images of the drops comprises taking a single image of each drop. 46. The method according to claim 44 wherein taking images of the drops is performed without having to adjust a focus of an optical system taking the images. 47. The method according to claim 46 wherein taking images of the drops comprises taking a single image of each drop. 48. The method according to claim 44, the method further comprising solving the molecule's crystal structure by x-ray diffraction of a detected molecule crystal. 49. The method according to claim 48 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 50. The method according to claim 48 wherein the molecule is a protein. 51. The method according to claim 48 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 52. The method according to claim 48 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 53. The method according to claim 48 wherein the drop has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 54. The method according to claim 53 wherein the molecule is a protein. 55. A method for performing array microcrystallizations to determine suitable crystallization conditions for a molecule, the method comprising: forming an array of microcrystallizations, each microcrystallization comprising a microcrystallization volume comprising a mother liquor solution whose composition varies within the array and a molecule to be crystallized, the microcrystallization volume having a volume of less than 1 microliter; storing the array of microcrystallizations under conditions suitable for molecule crystals to form in the microcrystallization volumes; and detecting molecule crystal formation in the microcrystallization volumes by taking images of the microcrystallization volumes. 56. The method according to claim 55 wherein taking images of the microcrystallization volumes comprises taking a single image of each microcrystallization volume. 57. The method according to claim 55 wherein taking images of the microcrystallization volumes is performed without having to adjust a focus of an optical system taking the images. 58. The method according to claim 57 wherein taking images of the microcrystallization volumes comprises taking a single image of each microcrystallization volume. 59. The method according to claim 58 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 60. The method according to claim 58 wherein the molecule is a protein. 61. The method according to claim 58 wherein the macromolecule has a molecular weight of at least 500 daltons. 62. The method according to claim 58 wherein the microcrystallization volume has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 63. The method according to claim 58 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 64. The method according to claim 58 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 65. The method according to claim 58 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of between about 1 nL-750 nL. 66. The method according to claim 58 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of between about 1 nL-500 nL. 67. The method according to claim 58 wherein the microcrystalization volume has a volume of between about 1 nL-250 nL. 68. The method according to claim 58 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 4 components which are varied within the array. 69. The method according to claim 58 wherein the mother liquor solutions have at least 5 components which are varied within the array. 70. The method according to claim 58 wherein the array includes greater than 96 microcrystallizations. 71. The method according to claim 58 wherein the array includes greater than 192 microcrystallizations. 72. The method according to claim 58 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 48 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 73. The method according to claim 58 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 96 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 74. The method according to claim 58 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes using greater than 192 stock solutions to form the mother liquor solutions used in the array. 75. The method according to claim 58 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the microcrystallization volumes within a volume range of less than about 25 nL. 76. The method according to claim 58 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the microcrystallization volumes within a volume range of less than about 20 nL. 77. The method according to claim 58 wherein forming the array of microcrystallizations includes forming the microcrystallization volumes within a volume range of less than about 15 nL. 78. The method according to claim 55, the method further comprising solving the molecule's crystal structure by x-ray diffraction of a detected molecule crystal. 79. The method according to claim 78 wherein the molecule is a macromolecule. 80. The method according to claim 78 wherein the molecule is a protein. 81. The method according to claim 78 wherein the microcrystallization volume has a volume of less than about 750 nL. 82. The method according to claim 78 wherein the microcrystallization volume has a volume of less than about 500 nL. 83. The method according to claim 78 wherein the microcrystallization volume has a volume of less than about 250 nL. 84. The method according to claim 83 wherein the molecule is a protein. 