An injection-molding machine cooling tube, which cools molded plastic parts, includes a porous cooling tube having an outer surface and an inner surface. Preferably, the porous cooling tube has a porosity in the range of 3-20 microns. A cooling fluid passageway is preferably disposed adjacent the porous cooling tube outer surface and is configured to carry a cooling fluid to extract heat from the porous cooling tube. Fluid flow structure, preferably a vacuum, is configured to cause a molded plastic part inside the porous cooling tube to expand into contact with at least a portion of the inner surface of the porous cooling tube.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tube assembly for operating on a malleable molded plastic part, the tube assembly comprising: a porous tube having a profiled inside surface; and a vacuum structure configured to cooperate with said porous tube to provide, in use, a reduced pressure adjacent said inside surface to to cause an outside surface of the malleable molded plastic part, locatable within the tube assembly, to contact said inside surface of said porous insert so as to allow a substantial portion of the outside surface of the malleable part, upon cooling, to attain a profile substantially corresponding to the profile of said inside surface. 2. The tube assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a cooling structure configured for connection, in use, into a heat dissipation path. 3. The tube assembly according to claim 2, wherein said vacuum structure comprises a tube body for receiving said porous tube, and at least one vacuum channel configured to connect, in use, the porous insert to a vacuum source. 4. The tube assembly according to claim 3, wherein said cooling structure comprises at least one cooling channel provided on said tube body. 5. An injection molding machine, comprising: molding structure that in use molds at least one plastic parts; at least one porous cooling cavitys configured to in use, hold and cool the at least one plastic parts after it has been molded by said molding structure; and at least one vacuum channels respectively configured to provide in use, a lower-than-ambient pressure to said at least one porous cavitys to cause the at least one plastic parts to contact said inside surfaces of the at least porous cavity. 6. The injection-molding machine according to claim 5, wherein each said cooling cavity comprises a porous insert disposed in a tube body. 7. The injection molding machine according to claim 6, wherein said cooling cavity further includes cooling structure configured for connection, in use, into a heat dissipation path. 8. A tube assembly for receiving a molded plastic part having a profile, the tube assembly comprising: a porous substrate having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface profiled to reflect at least a portion of the profile of the molded plastic part; and a vacuum channel located adjacent the outer surface, the vacuum channel supporting, in use, an initial establishment of a differential pressure from said outside surface of said porous substrate to said inside surface thereof, to induce contact, in use, between the received molded plastic part and said inside surface. 9. The tube assembly of claim 8, wherein the porous substrate is an insert removably locatable within a body portion of the tube assembly. 10. A tube assembly for operating on a malleable molded plastic part, the tube assembly comprising: a tube body; a porous insert located in the tube body, the porous insert including an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface profiled to reflect at least a portion of the profile of the molded plastic part; at least one vacuum channel in fluid communication with said porous insert, said vacuum channel configured for connection, in use, with a vacuum source to provide a reduced pressure adjacent said inside surface to cause an outside surface of the malleable molded plastic part, locatable within the tube assembly, to contact said inside surface so as to allow a substantial portion of the outside surface of the malleable part, upon cooling, to attain a profile substantially corresponding to the profile of said inside surface; and cooling structure configured for connection, in use, with a heat dissipation path for cooling the molded plastic part in contact with said inside surface of the porous insert. 11. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the inside surface of the porous insert includes a closed end that is shaped to correspond to a domed portion of the molded plastic part. 12. The tube assembly of claim 11, further including a channel at the base thereof, in use, the channel is connected to a vacuum or suction unit to draw the molded plastic part into the tube assembly. 13. The tube assembly of claim 12, further including a plug fitted into the tube body for providing a closed end of the tube body. 14. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the porous insert is a thermally conductive porous coating applied to an inside surface of the tube body. 15. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the porous insert has porosity in the range of about 3-20 microns. 16. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the inner porous insert is made of a porous aluminum. 17. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the cooling structure is provided by at least one cooling channel provided in the tube body that is configured to carry a cooling fluid. 18. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the cooling structure is provided by thermally coupling the tube body to a heat sink. 19. The tube assembly of claim 10, further including a spacer for locating the porous insert In the tube body. 20. The tube assembly of claim 10, wherein the at least one vacuum channel is provided in the tube body adjacent the porous insert outer surface. 21. The lube assembly of claim 10, wherein the porous insert includes the at least one vacuum channel. 22. The tube assembly of claim 21, wherein the at least one vacuum channel are provided as a plurality of channels in the exterior surface of porous insert. 23. The tube assembly of claim 10, further including an end seal at the open end of the tube assembly, in use, the end seal assists in establishing the reduced pressure adjacent the inside surface of said porous insert. 24. The tube assembly of claim 10, further including a collar on top of the tube body to retain the porous insert within the tube body. 25. The tube assembly of claim 24, wherein the collar extends inwardly to conform to the inside surface of the porous insert. 26. The tube assembly of claim 24, wherein the collar further includes a lip seal. 27. A method for shaping a malleable molded plastic part including the steps of: (i) receiving the molded plastic part into the tube assembly that includes a porous tube; (ii) providing a reduced pressure adjacent a profiled Inside surface of said porous tube causing a portion of an outside surface of the molded plastic part to move into contact therewith and thereby attain a substantially corresponding shape; and (iii) extracting heat from the molded plastic part through a heat dissipation path to solidity the molded plastic part to the extent that the shape of the outside surface is preserved; and (iv) ejecting the molded plastic article; wherein the outer surface of the molded plastic part is provided with a final shape that is defined by the profiled inside surface profile of the porous tube. 28. The method according to claim 27, further including the step of maintaining the reduced pressure through the inside surface of the porous tube as the molded plastic part cools. 29. The method according to claim 27, wherein the step of ejecting the molded plastic article includes applying a positive pressure through vacuum channels in the tube assembly. 30. An end-of-arm tool comprising: a carrier plate for mounting, in use, to a robot in a molding system; and at least one tube assembly arranged on said carrier plate, and each tube assembly configured for receiving, in use, a molded plastic part; each of said tube assembly comprising: a porous tube having an inside surface and an outside surface, the inside surface profiled to reflect at least a portion of the profile of the molded plastic part; and a vacuum structure configured to cooperate with said porous tube to provide, in use, a reduced pressure adjacent said inside surface to cause an outside surface of a malleable molded plastic part, locatable within the tube assembly, to contact said inside surface of said porous insert so as to allow a substantial portion of the outside surface of the malleable part, upon cooling, to attain a profile substantially corresponding to the profile of said inside surface. 31. The end of arm tool of claim 30, wherein said tube assembly further comprises a cooling structure configured for connection, in use, into a heat dissipation path. 32. The end of arm tool of claim 31, wherein said vacuum structure comprises a tube body for receiving said porous tube, and at least one vacuum channel configured for connection, in use, to a vacuum source. 33. The end of arm tool of claim 30, wherein the number of preform tube assemblies corresponds with the number of molded plastic parts produced in each corresponding injection cycle of the molding system. 34. The end of arm tool of claim 30, wherein the number of preform tube assemblies corresponds with a multiple of the number of molded plastic parts produced in each corresponding injection cycle of the molding system. 35. The end of arm tool of claim 30, wherein the porous insert has porosity in the range of about 3-20 microns. 36. The end of arm tool of claim 35, wherein the inner porous insert is made of a porous aluminum. 37. The end of arm tool of claim 31, wherein the cooling structure is provided by at least one cooling channel provided in the tube body that is configured to connect with cooling fluid channels provided in the carrier plate. 38. The end of arm tool of claim 31, wherein the cooling structure is provided by thermally coupling the at least one tube assembly to a heat sink provided by the cooled carrier plate. 39. The end of arm tool of claim 32, wherein the at least one vacuum channel is configured to connect with vacuum channels provided in the carrier plate. 40. A tube assembly, comprising: a tube with an inside surface provided on a porous substrate; and a fluid flow structure configured to cooperate with said porous substrate to cause, in use, a malleable molded plastic part, locatable within the tube assembly, to be drawn into contact with said inside surface so as to allow a substantial portion of an outside surface of the malleable part, upon cooling, to attain an outside profile substantially corresponding to the profile of said inside surface. 