The CPU 102 detects that the posture of the apparatus main body has been shifted from the normal posture into an abnormal posture on the basis of the acceleration information obtained as detection output of the acceleration sensor 41. Then, it restores the normal posture by means of a playback technique for controlling various drivers 3D through 7D, using route planning data stored in advance in the memory 101 for restoring the normal posture from a falling posture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus comprising: at least fore legs; control means for controlling said legs; posture detection means for detecting a posture of an apparatus main body and outputting a result of said detection; and posture determination means for determining whether said apparatus main body is taking at least a right side down posture or a left side down posture on a basis of said result of said detection; said control means controlling said legs in order to recover from said right side down posture or said left down posture to a normal posture by way of a stomach side down posture at least one when said posture determination means determines that said apparatus main body takes said right side down posture or left side down posture. 2. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: memory means which stores programs for a recovery from one of the fall down postures by way of the stomach side down posture, wherein said control means controls said legs according to said programs. 3. A robot apparatus comprising: a controller for detecting when said robot apparatus has assumed an abnormal posture, said controller commanding said robot apparatus to assume a normal posture once said abnormal posture has been detected. 4. The robot apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said abnormal posture is a falling posture. 5. The robot apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising: a plurality of support members extending from a body, said plurality of support members being structurally adapted to support said body above a floor. 6. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said plurality of support members comprise a plurality of legs. 7. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said plurality of support members is more than two support members. 8. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said abnormal posture is defined by less than three of said plurality of support members being in contact with said floor. 9. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said normal posture is defined by at least three of said plurality of support members being in contact with said floor. 10. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said normal posture is defined by at least three of said plurality of support members supporting said body above said floor. 11. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said controller controls said plurality of support member. 12. The robot apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said plurality of support members urge said robot apparatus to said normal posture. 13. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein: said body includes a head side, a tail side, a left side and a right side; and said plurality of support members includes a left foreleg, a right foreleg, a left hind leg, and a right hind leg. 14. The robot apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said left foreleg is adjacent said head side and said left side. 15. The robot apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said right foreleg is adjacent said head side and said right side. 16. The robot apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said left hind leg is adjacent said tail side and said left side. 17. The robot apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said right hind leg is adjacent said tail side and said right side. 18. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein: said body includes a head side, a tail side, a left side and a right side; and said abnormal posture comprises one of a head side down posture, a tail side down posture, a left side down posture, and a right side down posture. 19. The robot apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said head side down posture is defined by said head side being closer to said floor than said left and right hind support members. 20. The robot apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said tail side down posture is defined by said tail side being closer to said floor than said left and right forelegs. 21. The robot apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said left side down posture is defined by said left side being closer to said floor than said right foreleg and said right hind leg. 22. The robot apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said right side down posture is defined by said right side being closer to said floor than said left foreleg and said left hind leg. 23. The robot apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising memory, a posture model of said abnormal posture being stored within said memory. 24. The robot apparatus according to claim 23, wherein a sensor output is compared against said posture model. 25. The robot apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said sensor output is outputs from contact sensors, a contact sensor of said contact sensors being located at the tip of each leg of said plurality of support members. 26. The robot apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said sensor output is outputs from contact sensors, said contact sensors being located on said body. 27. The robot apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said sensor output is an image output of the positional relationship of said floor relative to said robot apparatus. 28. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said abnormal posture is detected based upon the output of more than one different sensors. 29. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said abnormal posture is detected based upon an angular velocity sensor. 30. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said abnormal posture is detected based upon an angular acceleration sensor. 31. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said abnormal posture is detected based upon an inclination sensor. 32. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said abnormal posture is detected based upon acceleration information from an acceleration sensor. 33. The robot apparatus according to claim 32, wherein acceleration sensor is a 3-axial sensor. 34. The robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said plurality of support member comprises a plurality of wheels. 