A method and system for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a selected product. In one embodiment, the method includes the steps of determining at least one attribute associated with the selected product, selecting an alternative product, retrieving assertion models to describe the product and to recommend an alternative product in a natural manner, and generating a naturally reading narrative by combining the attribute and the selected alternative product with the retrieved assertion models such that the generated narrative includes a recommendation of the selected alternative product. A system is provided for implementing the described method.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer-implemented method implemented by one or more computing devices for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a specific product selected by a user, said method comprising: determining, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, at least one attribute associated with said specific product, said at least one attribute including at least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit; selecting, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, an alternative product based on said at least one attribute; and generating, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, a naturally reading narrative including assertions about the specific product and a recommendation of the alternative product. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said alternative product has a price that is at least as high as price of said specific product. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein a manufacturer of said alternative product is the same as the manufacturer of said specific product. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a manufacturer of said alternative product is different than a manufacturer of said specific product. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said narrative includes at least one sentence recommending said alternative product. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said recommendation is an advertisement, and further including the step of receiving compensation in exchange for recommending said alternative product. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein an amount of said compensation is based on at least one of frequency of said recommendation and number of recommended products sold that is attributable to said recommendation. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the naturally reading narrative is generating using assertion models that comprise a plurality of assertion templates, each assertion template including a natural sentence pattern and at least one field corresponding to said at least one attribute. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one attribute is a plurality of attributes associated with said specific product and said alternative product, said method further comprising assigning importance ratings to each of said plurality of attributes. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising designating at least one of said plurality of attributes as a key attribute, and wherein said generated naturally reading narrative is regarding said key attribute. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining attribute ranks for each of said plurality of attributes, and processing said attribute ranks together with said importance ratings to derive a severity value for each of said plurality of attributes. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said deriving said severity values includes applying an inflection algorithm. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identification of a plurality of alternative products from a plurality of candidate alternative products. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a severity differential between each of said plurality of attributes for said plurality of candidate alternative products and said specific product. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said alternative product is selected based on at least one of a predetermined near-price margin, a predetermined near-rank margin, and a predetermined severity differential threshold. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is within a predetermined near-price margin of said selected product; has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; and has the same primary scenario as said selected product. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute and for all attributes of said specific product that are above a predetermined high severity threshold; is priced lower and outside a predetermined near-price margin; and has the same primary scenario as said selected product. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; is priced lower and outside a predetermined near-price margin; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is within a predetermined near-price margin; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute and for all attributes of said specific product that are above a predetermined high severity threshold; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is within a predetermined near-price margin; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute and for all attributes of said specific product that are above a predetermined high severity threshold; and has a different primary scenario than said specific product. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is priced higher and outside a predetermined near-price margin; has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; is from the same manufacturer as said specific product; and has the same primary scenario as said selected product. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is priced higher and outside a predetermined near-price margin; has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; is from the same manufacturer as said specific product; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is priced higher than said specific product; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute; and is from a different manufacturer as said specific product. 24. The method of claim 15, wherein said selecting said alternative product includes identifying a candidate alternative product which: is priced lower than said specific product; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute; and is from the same manufacturer as said specific product. 25. A product summary generator for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a specific product selected by a user, said product summary generator comprising: a processor coupled to a memory device configured to execute: a product attribute module adapted to determine at least one attribute associated with said specific product, said attribute including at least one of an attribute name, an attribute value, and an attribute unit; an alternative product selection module adapted to select an alternative product based on said at least one attribute; and a summary generation module adapted to generate a naturally reading narrative by combining said at least one attribute and said alternative product with one or more retrieved assertion models so that said narrative includes a recommendation of said alternative product. 26. The product summary generator of claim 25, wherein said alternative product has a price that is at least as high as a price of said specific product. 27. The product summary generator of claim 25, wherein a manufacturer of said alternative product is the same as the manufacturer of said specific product. 28. The product summary generator of claim 25, wherein a manufacturer of said alternative product is different than a manufacturer of said specific product. 29. The product summary generator of claim 25, wherein said narrative includes at least one sentence recommending said alternative product. 30. The product summary generator of claim 25, wherein said recommendation is an advertisement whereby compensation is provided for recommending said alternative product. 31. The product summary generator of claim 30, wherein an amount of said compensation is based on at least one of frequency of said recommendation and number of recommended products sold that is attributable to said recommendation. 32. The product summary generator of claim 25, wherein said at least one attribute is a plurality of attributes associated with said specific product and said alternative product, said product attribute module assigns importance ratings to each of said plurality of attributes. 33. The product summary generator of claim 25, further comprising an assertion model module adapted to retrieve said one or more assertion models, wherein said one or more section models define forms in which an assertion can be used to generate the naturally reading narrative. 34. The product summary generator of claim 33, wherein said assertion models comprise a plurality of assertion templates, each assertion template including a natural sentence pattern and at least one field corresponding to said at least one attribute. 35. The product summary generator of claim 33, wherein said product attribute module designates at least one of said plurality of attributes as a key attribute, and wherein said generated naturally reading narrative is regarding said key attribute. 36. The product summary generator of claim 33, wherein said product attribute module determines attribute ranks for each of said plurality of attributes, and processes said attribute ranks together with said importance ratings to derive a severity value for each of said plurality of attributes. 37. The product summary generator of claim 36, wherein said product attribute module derives said severity values using an inflection algorithm. 38. The product summary generator of claim 36, further comprising an alternative products database for storing a plurality of candidate alternative products, wherein said alternative product selection module selects said alternative product from said alternative products database. 39. The product summary generator of claim 38, wherein said alternative product selection module determines a severity differential between each of said plurality of attributes for said plurality of candidate alternative products and said specific product. 40. The product summary generator of claim 39, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module based on at least one of a predetermined near-price margin, a predetermined near-rank margin, and a predetermined severity differential threshold. 41. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: is within a predetermined near-price margin of said specific product; has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 42. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute and for all attributes of said specific product that are above a predetermined high severity threshold; is priced lower and outside a predetermined near-price margin; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 43. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; is priced lower and outside a predetermined near-price margin; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 44. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: is within a predetermined near-price margin; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute and for all attributes of said specific product that are above a predetermined high severity threshold; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 45. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: is within a predetermined near-price margin; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute and for all attributes of said specific product that are above a predetermined high severity threshold; and has a different primary scenario than said specific product. 46. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: is priced higher and outside a predetermined near-price margin; has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; is from the same manufacturer as said specific product; and has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 47. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product in said alternative products database which: is priced higher and outside a predetermined near-price margin; has at least one attribute with a severity value that is above a predetermined severity differential threshold; is from the same manufacturer as said specific product; arid has the same primary scenario as said specific product. 48. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product which: is priced higher than said specific product; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute; and is from a different manufacturer as said specific product. 49. The product summary generator of claim 40, wherein said alternative product is selected by said alternative product selection module by identifying a candidate alternative product which: is priced lower than said specific product; is within a predetermined near-rank margin for said key attribute; and is from the same manufacturer as said specific product. 50. A computer-implemented method implemented by one or more computing devices for automatically generating a naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about a specific product selected by a user, said method comprising: receiving, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, the selection of a first product from the user, the first product associated with a plurality of attributes; identifying, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, at least one attribute of the plurality of attributes for the first product; selecting, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, a second product based on the at least one attribute, the second product being the product having the high value rating for the at least one attribute; and generating, by at least one of the one or more computing devices, the naturally reading narrative product summary including assertions about the first product and a recommendation of the second product. 51. The method of claim 50, wherein the second product is a comparable product. 52. The method of claim 50, wherein the second product is an alternative product. 