A wheeled platform 100 is disclosed, which is characterized by high mobility and reliability, and which can be used in a wide range of applications including transport and robotic devices. The wheeled platform 100 has fore and aft body portions 130, 132, each body portion 130, 132 having first and second sides 106, 108. Overlapping wheels 112, 114, 116, 118 are rotatably attached to the first side 106 and overlapping wheels 120, 122, 124, 126 are rotatably attached to the second side 108. The fore body portion 130 can be connected to the aft body portion 132 via an articulation element 133.
Claims We claim: 1. A wheeled structure, comprising: a body having at least first and second side portions; first and second sets of wheel elements rotatably attached to the first and second side portions, respectively; a flipper element pivotally coupled to a portion of the body, said flipper element having wheels elements of said first and second sets of wheels elements rotatably coupled thereto; and a drive module integrated in combination with the flipper element to control the movement of the flipper element between a stowed position and a forward position wherein said wheel elements of said flipper element can make selective contact with a ground plane; wherein each wheel element of said first and second sets of wheel elements has a defined radius, and a portion of at least one wheel element in each of the first and second sets of wheel elements overlaps a respective adjacent wheel element of said first and second sets of wheel elements with the flipper element in the forward position. 2. A wheeled structure comprising: front and back body portions; an articulation element coupling the front body portion to the back body portion; first and second sets of wheel elements rotatably attached to respective sides of the front and back body portions of the wheeled structure, wherein a forward wheel element in the first and second sets of wheel elements is attached to the front body portion, and a rear wheel element in the first and second sets of wheel elements is attached to the back body portion; a drive module including a motion control element and a drive motor coupled to the articulation element for controlling the movement of the articulation element between a stowed position and a forward position where the wheel elements of the front body portion can make selective contact with a ground planet; wherein the distance between one wheel element on the front body portion and an adjacent wheel element on the back body portion is such that the one wheel element and the adjacent wheel element overlap with the front body portion in the forward position. 3. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the articulation element is a hinge. 4. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the articulation element is a pivot. 5. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the articulation element is a flexible body portion. 6. The wheeled structure of claim 2, wherein the front body portion is a flipper element pivotally coupled to the back body portion by means of the articulation element. 7. The wheeled structure of claim 6, wherein the forward wheel elements of the fist and second set of wheel elements are rotatably coupled to the flipper element, for making selective contact with the ground plane. 8. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein each wheel element in the first and second sets of wheel elements has a respective transverse displacement from a longitudinal centerline of the body, and the transverse displacement of the forward wheel elements is smaller than that of the rear wheel elements in the first and second sets of wheel elements. 9. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the rear wheel elements include intermediate wheel elements that are always in contact with the ground plane, and the forward wheel elements and the other wheel elements are selectively in contact with the ground plane. 10. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the first and second sets of wheel elements further comprises a center wheel element set, and wherein at least one wheel in the center wheel element set is rotatably coupled to the body at a greater transverse displacement from a longitudinal centerline of the front and back body portions than at least one other wheel element in the first and second sets of wheel elements. 11. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the first and second sets of wheel elements is arrayed with a selected degree of rocker to enable the wheeled structure to turn-in-place. 12. The wheeled structure of claim 2 further comprising a drive module that includes an independent drive element arranged to drive at least one wheel element, and a motion control element for controlling rotation of each driven wheel element to enable longitudinal movement, turns or turns-in-place. 13. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the wheel elements in the first and second sets of wheel elements are geared so that the wheel elements in one set can turn independently of the other set. 14. The wheeled structure of claim 2 wherein the wheel elements of the first and second sets of wheel elements, respectively, are aligned in a row. 15. The wheeled structure as in claim 2, 8, or 10 wherein each wheel element has a defined radius, and a portion of at least one wheel element in the first and second sets of wheel elements overlaps an adjacent wheel element. 16. The wheeled structure as in claim 2 or 10 wherein each wheel element of the first and second sets of wheel elements has a defined radius such that there is no overlap between adjacent wheel elements of the first and second sets of wheel elements. 