A method and apparatus for welding with a robotic welder is disclosed. The system includes a power supply, a controller and a robotic interface. The controller includes, in a single housing, a robot-type detector and at least one power control output connected to the power supply. The robot-type detector is connected to the robot interface. An adaptor cord connects the robot controller to the power supply. The controller also has an automatic set-up control connected to the power control output.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: a power supply having at least one control input; a robot interface; and a controller, in a single housing, including, a robot-type detector, connected to the robot interface, and at least one power control output connected to the at least one control input. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot interface includes a first part of a mated connection, and the system further comprises: at least one adaptor cord having, a second part of the mated connection at a first end, and a robot connection at a second end. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one adaptor cord is a plurality of adaptor cords, each having a different robot connection. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the robot-type detector is comprised of a software implemented by a digital circuit. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the robot interface includes a first part of mated connection having a plurality of connectors, wherein the software uses the presence and absence of connections made to the plurality of connectors to determine the robot type. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller further includes an automatic set-up control having: an input connected to the robot interface; and an output connected to the at least one power control output. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the power supply is a phase controlled power supply. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising a wire feeder connected to an output of the power supply. 9. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: power means for providing welding power; interface means for interfacing with a robot; power control means for controlling the power means, the control means being connected to the power means; and detector means for detecting the robot type, the detector means being connected to the interface means and the control means; wherein the detector means and the power control means are in a single housing. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the detector means and the power control means are part of a single controller. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising cord means for connecting the interface means to a robot connection. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the cord means includes a plurality of adaptor cords, each having a different robot connection. 13. The system of claim 9 wherein the detector means includes software implemented by a digital circuit. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the interface means includes a plurality of connector means for connecting to a mated cord, and means for determining the robot type from the presence and absence of connections made to the plurality of connectors means. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the interface means includes a plurality of connector means for connecting to a mated cord, and means for determining the robot type from signals on the plurality of connectors means. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the power control means further includes a set-up means for automatically setting up the system in response to the detector means detecting the robot type. 17. The system of claim 9, wherein the power means includes means for providing phase controlled power. 18. A method of welding with a robotic welder comprising: providing welding power; interfacing with a robot; controlling the welding power; and detecting the robot type from interfacing. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein interfacing includes connecting a cord between a welding system and a robot. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein interfacing includes selecting one cord specifically designed for the robot type from a plurality of cords, each of the plurality being designed for a different robot type. 21. The method claim 18 wherein detecting includes running a software program. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein detecting includes determining the presence and absence of connections made to a plurality of connectors. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein interfacing includes determining the robot type from signals on a plurality of connectors. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein controlling includes automatically setting up a welding system in response to detecting. 25. The method of claim 18, wherein providing power includes providing phase controlled power. 26. A method of connecting a welding system to a robotic welder comprising: selecting an adaptor cord for the robot type; connecting a first end of the cord to the welding system; connecting a second end of the cord to the robot; and detecting the robot type from connection made. 27. An adaptor cord for connecting a welding system and a robotic welder comprising: a first end having a first part of a mated connection, wherein the first part of the mated connection has a plurality of connectors, and wherein the arrangement of the connector indicate the robot type; and a second end capable of mating with a connector on the robot. 28. An adaptor cord for connecting a welding system and a robotic welder comprising: a first end having a first part of a mated connection, wherein the first part of the mated connection has a plurality of connectors, and wherein the signals provided on the plurality of connectors indicate the robot type; and a second end capable of mating with a connector on the robot. 29. The cord of claim 28 wherein the arrangement of the connectors further indicates the robot type. 30. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: a power supply having at least one control input; a controller, including at least one power control output connected to the at least one control input, and an automatic set-up control connected to the power control output; a robot interface, wherein the automatic set-up control has a set-up parameter input connected to the robot interface; and a robot-type detector, connected to the robot interface. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the automatic set-up control has at least one parameter of the group consisting of: mig type, aux output, voltage, memory, mig type, arc start, arc time, wire feed, wire type, display, memory, shutdown, name, program, stick, jog ipm, robot, flow, monitor, software. 32. The system of claim 31 further comprising a wire feeder, wherein the automatic set-up control is connected to the wire feeder. 33. The system of claim 30 wherein the power supply is a phase controlled power supply. 34. The system of claim 30 wherein the robot-type detector is comprised of a software implemented by a digital circuit. 35. The system of claim 30 wherein the automatic setup control includes a microprocessor. 36. A welding system for use with a robotic welder comprising: power supply means for providing welding power; power control means for controlling the power supply means, connected to the power supply means; set-up means for automatically setting-up the system, connected to the power control means; means for interfacing with and receiving set-up parameters from a robot, connected to the set-up means; and means for detecting a robot type, connected to the interface means. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the set-up means has means for setting up at least one parameter of the group consisting of: mig type, aux output, voltage, memory, mig type, arc start, arc time, wire feed, wire type, display, memory, shutdown, name, program, stick, jog ipm, robot, flow, monitor, software. 38. The system of claim 37, further comprising a means for feeding wire, connected to the set-up means. 39. A method of welding with a robotic welder comprising: providing welding power; controlling the power provided; automatically setting-up the system; interfacing with a robot: and receiving set-up parameters from the robot detecting a robot type. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein setting up the system includes setting up at least one parameter of the group consisting of: mig type, aux output, voltage, memory, mig type, arc start, arc time, wire feed, wire type, display, memory, shutdown, name, program, stick, jog ipm, robot, flow, monitor, software. 41. The method of claim 40 further comprising a feeding wire to an arc, and automatically setting up the wire feeder. 