Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, at least four properties of a specimen such as critical dimension, overlay, a presence of macro defects, and thin film characteristics. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least four properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the plurality of measurement devices are configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, a presence of defects on the specimen, and a thin film characteristic of the specimen during use; and a processor coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least four properties of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the at least four properties comprise the critical dimension of the specimen, the overlay misregistration of the specimen, the presence of defects on the specimen, and the thin film characteristic of the specimen. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured as a cluster tool. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured as a stand alone system. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the stage is coupled to at least one of the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally during use. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the stage is coupled to at least one of the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the stage is further configured to move rotatably during use. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage configured to support the specimen during use, wherein the stage is coupled to at least one of the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a non-imaging scatterometer. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a scatterometer. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a spectroscopic scatterometer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a reflectometer. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a spectroscopic reflectometer. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise an ellipsometer. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a spectroscopic ellipsometer. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a beam profile ellipsometer. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a dual beam spectrophotometer. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a bright field imaging device. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a dark field imaging device. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a bright field and a dark field imaging device. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a double dark field device. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a bright field non-imaging device. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a dark field non-imaging device. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a bright field and a dark field non-imaging device. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a coherence probe microscope. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise an interference microscope. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise an optical profilometer. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a photo-acoustic device. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise an eddy current device. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise an X-ray reflectometer. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise a grazing X-ray reflectometer. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise an X-ray diffractometer. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices comprise at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein elements of the first measurement device comprise elements of the second measurement device. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the defects comprise macro defects. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the presence of defects on the specimen comprises a presence of defects on a bottom surface of the specimen. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fifth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the fifth property comprises a flatness measurement of the specimen. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a fifth property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the fifth property is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 36. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least four properties of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use. 37. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of measurement devices are further configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to one or more of the at least four properties at multiple locations on the surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use such that the one or more properties can be determined at the multiple locations substantially simultaneously. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare one or more of the at least four properties of the specimen and properties of a plurality of specimens during use. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare one or more of the at least four properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for the one or more properties during use. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare one or more of the at least four properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for the one or more properties during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the one or more properties of the specimen are outside of the predetermined range during use. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of at least one of the plurality of measurement devices in response to one or more of the at least four properties of the specimen during use. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to at least one of the plurality of measurement devices in response to one or more of the at least four properties using a feedback control technique during use. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to at least one of the plurality of measurement devices in response to one or more of the at least four properties using a feedforward control technique during use. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the database comprises the at least four properties of the specimen. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least four properties of the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least four properties of the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 47. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least four properties of the specimen, wherein the database further comprises the at least four properties of a plurality of specimens, wherein the at least four properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of systems, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate one or more measurement devices of the plurality of systems using the database during use. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least four properties of the specimen, wherein the database further comprises the at least four properties of a plurality of specimens, wherein the at least four properties of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of systems, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by one or more measurement devices of the plurality of systems using the database during use. 49. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 50. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 51. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the four properties of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to one or more of the at least four properties of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of the one or more properties. 52. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to one or more of the at least four properties using a feedback control technique during use. 53. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to one or more of the at least four properties using a feedforward control technique during use. 54. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the plurality of measurement devices and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 55. The system of claim 54, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the at least four properties of the specimen during use. 56. The system of claim 54, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the at least four properties of the specimen during use. 57. A method for determining at least four properties of a specimen, comprising: generating one or more output signals with a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the one or more output signals are responsive to at least four properties of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine the at least four properties of the specimen, wherein the at least four properties comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, a presence of defects on the specimen, and a thin film characteristic of the specimen. 58. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least four properties of a specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a plurality of measurement devices, comprising: controlling the plurality of measurement devices to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least four properties of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine the at least four properties of the specimen, wherein the at least four properties of the specimen comprises a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, a presence of defects on the specimen, and a thin film characteristic of the specimen. 59. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: forming a portion of the semiconductor device upon a specimen; generating one or more output signals with a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the one or more output signals are responsive to at least four properties of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine the at least four properties of the specimen, wherein the at least four properties comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, a presence of defects on the specimen, and a thin film characteristic of the specimen. 60. A system configured to determine at least four properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the plurality of measurement devices are configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to the at least four properties of the specimen; a local processor coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use and to determine the at least four properties of the specimen during use, and wherein the at least four properties comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, a presence of defects on the specimen, and a thin film characteristic of the specimen. 61. A method for determining at least four properties of a specimen, comprising: generating one or more output signals with a plurality of output signals, wherein the one or more output signals are responsive to at least four properties of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals to determine the at least four properties of the specimen, wherein the at least four properties comprise a critical dimension of the specimen, overlay misregistration of the specimen, a presence of defects on the specimen, and a thin film characteristic of the specimen, wherein processing the one or more output signals comprises: at least partially processing the one or more output signals using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the plurality of measurement devices; sending the partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 