Methods and apparatus for characterizing a polymer sample and in preferred embodiments, libraries of polymer samples, in a comprehensive, directly-coupled multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system are disclosed. The first and second dimensions are preferably high-performance liquid chromatography dimensions, such as for example, a first dimension adapted for determining composition (e.g. adapted for mobile-phase gradient elution chromatography, including reverse phase chromatography, adsorption chromatography and the like), and a second dimension adapted for determining molecular weight or particle size (e.g., adapted for size exclusion chromatography, including gel permeation chromatography).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for characterizing a polymer sample in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: injecting the polymer sample into a first-dimension mobile phase of a first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; sampling discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent at regularly recurring time intervals, such that at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled; injecting each of the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent directly into a second-dimension mobile phase of the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components from other subcomponents thereof in a second-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a second-dimension mobile phase eluent from the second-dimension column comprises two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components; and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling the sampling interval and sampling volume such that at least two discrete fractions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling the sampling interval and sampling volume such that at least three discrete fractions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a discrete volume of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent is sampled at least once every two minutes. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein a discrete volume of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent is sampled at least once every 30 seconds. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least ten discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are sampled. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one hundred discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are sampled. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are not more than about 500 .mu.l. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are not more than about 250 .mu.l. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least ten discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent are sampled with a sampling frequency of at least once every 30 seconds, and the sampled volumes are not more than about 250 .mu.l. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent has an essential absence of first-dimension separated sample components. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a property of interest from the detected property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a property of the first-dimension separated components in the first-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected using a concentration detector or mass detector. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents is detected using an evaporative light-scattering detector. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dimension or second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first dimension or second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for gel permeation chromatography. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for gel permeation chromatography. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase compositional gradient elution chromatography. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase temperature gradient elution chromatography. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for reverse phase chromatography. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for adsorption chromatography. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components, and the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a non-biological polymer sample. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a biological polymer sample. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample being characterized is a member of a library of polymer samples comprising four or more different polymer samples, the method further comprising: repeating the steps of injecting a polymer sample into the first-dimension mobile phase, separating a component of the polymer sample in the first-dimension liquid chromatography column, sampling the first-dimension mobile phase eluent, injecting sampled volumes in to the second-dimension mobile phase, separating a subcomponent of sampled portions of the first-dimension separated components in the second-dimension liquid chromatography column, and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the polymer samples of the library. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer sample is a polymerization product mixture that is untreated or pretreated only with one or more steps selected from the group consisting of non-chromatographic separation, dilution, mixing, and redissolution. 30. A method for characterizing a polymer sample in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: injecting the polymer sample into a first-dimension mobile phase of a first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for determining compositional variations of first-dimension separated sample components; chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; sampling discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent at regularly recurring time intervals, such that at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled; injecting each of the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent directly into a second-dimension mobile phase of the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, wherein the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for size exclusion chromatography; chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components from other subcomponents thereof in a second-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a second-dimension mobile phase eluent from the second-dimension column comprises two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components; and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase compositional gradient elution chromatography. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for mobile-phase temperature gradient elution chromatography. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for reverse phase chromatography. 34. The method of claim 30, wherein the first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system is a high-performance liquid chromatography subsystem adapted for adsorption chromatography. 35. A method for characterizing a polymer sample in a multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, the method comprising: injecting the polymer sample into a first-dimension mobile phase of a first dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system, wherein the polymer sample is a member of a library of polymer samples comprising four or more different polymer samples; chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected polymer sample from other sample components thereof in a first-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a first-dimension mobile phase eluent from the first-dimension column comprises two or more first-dimension separated sample components; sampling discrete volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent at regularly recurring time intervals, such that at least a portion of each of the first-dimension separated sample components are sampled; injecting each of the sampled volumes of the first-dimension mobile phase eluent directly into a second-dimension mobile phase of the second dimension of the multi-dimensional liquid chromatography system; chromatographically separating at least one subcomponent of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components from other subcomponents thereof in a second-dimension liquid chromatography column, such that a second-dimension mobile phase eluent from the second-dimension column comprises two or more second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the sampled portions of each of the first-dimension separated sample components; detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents in the second-dimension mobile phase eluent using a flow-through detector; and repeating the steps of injecting a polymer sample into the first-dimension mobile phase, separating a component of the polymer sample in the first-dimension liquid chromatography column, sampling the first-dimension mobile phase eluent, injecting sampled volumes in to the second-dimension mobile phase, separating a subcomponent of sampled portions of the first-dimension separated components in the second-dimension liquid chromatography column, and detecting a property of the second-dimension separated subcomponents for each of the polymer samples of the library. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the polymer samples of the library are non-biological polymer samples. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein the library comprises four or more different non-biological polymers on a common substrate. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein the library comprises four or more different non-biological polymers synthesized in a parallel reaction vessel. 39. The method of claim 35, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization. 40. The method of claim 35, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to one or more of reactant materials, catalysts, catalysts precursors, initiators, additives, or the relative amounts thereof. 41. The method of claim 35, wherein the four or more different non-biological polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from parallel polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 