Fastener delivery apparatus for automatically selecting and delivering fasteners such as rivets to a setting tool (1). The fasteners are pre-loaded in a package (4) and dispense via at least one fastener delivery tube (6) that interconnects the setting tool (1) to a fastener feeder device. The fastener feeder device releases selected fasteners from the package (4) into the delivery tube (6). The fasteners are transportable individually or in groups in the tube (6) from the feeder device to the tool (1). A transfer station (7) attached to the tool (1) or the delivery tube (6) transfers a fastener from the delivery apparatus into the tool (1), the transfer station (7) being moveable between a first position in which an exit of the transfer station (7) is adjacent to the tool (1) so that a delivered fastener may be inserted by the transfer station (7) into the tool (1) and a second position in which it is clear of the tool (1) so as to permit the tool (1) or a portion thereof to move towards a workpiece to insert a loaded fastener. The delivery tube (6) has wear resistant elements. The apparatus allows smooth, rapid and reliable delivery of fasteners of various sizes and types to the nose of a setting tool (1) in any particular order and provides all the fastener types for any particular work cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fastener feeder assembly for fastener delivery apparatus comprising a fastener package in the form of a plurality of sealed channels containing fasteners, the channels being interconnected by a flexible web, a release device for opening a selected channel so as to release the fasteners and an outlet for connection to a delivery tube of the delivery apparatus, the fastener package being of continuous and elongate length, wherein the fastener package is indexed past the release device. 2. A fastener feeder assembly according to claim 1, wherein the fastener package is indexed past the release device on a rotary wheel having a plurality of radial pockets spaced about its periphery the channels of the fastener package being received in said pockets. 3. A fastener feeder assembly according to claim 2, wherein the release device is a cutting member for severing a selected channel of said fastener package. 4. A fastener feeder assembly for fastener delivery apparatus comprising a fastener package in the form of a plurality of sealed channels containing fasteners, the channels being interconnected by a flexible web, a release device for opening a selected channel so as to release the fasteners and an outlet for connection to a delivery tube of the delivery apparatus, the fastener package comprising a tube in each of said channels, the tube having an integral closure member for retaining fasteners in said tube, the closure member being operable by engagement with the release member. 5. A fastener feeder assembly for fastener delivery apparatus comprising a fastener package in the form of a plurality of sealed channels containing fasteners, the channels being interconnected by a flexible web, a release device for opening a selected channel so as to release the fasteners and an outlet for connection to a delivery tube of the delivery apparatus, a rotary slotted drum over which the package is wound, the release device being a cutting member radially moveable into a slot to sever at least one selected channel of the fastener package and release the fasteners from a selected channel. 6. A fastener feeder assembly for fastener delivery apparatus comprising a fastener package in the form of a plurality of sealed channels containing fasteners, the channels being interconnected by a flexible web, a release device for opening a selected channel so as to release the fasteners and an outlet for connection to a delivery tube of the delivery apparatus, the fastener package being of continuous and elongate length and comprising a tube in each of said channels, the tube having an integral closure member for retaining fasteners in said tube, the closure member being operable by engagement with the release member. 7. A fastener feeder assembly for fastener delivery apparatus comprising a fastener package in the form of a plurality of sealed channels containing fasteners, the channels being interconnected by a flexible web, a release device for opening a selected channel so as to release the fasteners and an outlet for connection to a delivery tube of the delivery apparatus, the fastener package being of continuous and elongate length, a rotary slotted drum over which the fastener package is wound, the release device being a cutting member radially moveable into a slot to sever at least one selected channel of the fastener package and release the fasteners from a selected channel. 