A mobile communications device comprising a location sensing system, producing a location output; a memory, storing a set of locations and associated events; a telecommunications device, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to determine a priority thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An information collection system comprising: a plurality of mobile units each having a wireless communication device, each mobile unit being associated with a vehicle, means for determining a location of the vehicle, and an output for presenting traffic-related information communicated through the wireless communication device to a user; and a central monitoring station adapted for transmitting data to and receiving data from at least one of the mobile units, wherein the wireless communication device of a mobile unit communicates traffic information with the central monitoring station, and communicates prioritized traffic information directly with a corresponding mobile unit in a self-organizing communication network. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the central monitoring station generates a map of traffic conditions based on information transmitted from mobile units installed in vehicles. 3. The system of claim 2 in which the information displayed at the mobile unit is traffic information. 4. An information collection system of claim 3, wherein information received by the central monitoring station from the plurality of mobile units includes position and velocity data. 5. The information collection system recited in claim 1 wherein the means that determines location of a vehicle is a Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) system. 6. The information collection system recited in claim 1 wherein the central monitoring station includes a warning generation system which transmits warnings to mobile units installed in vehicles about to enter traffic jams. 7. The information collection system recited in claim 1 wherein the central monitoring station includes a warning generation system which transmits warnings to an Intelligent Vehicle Highway System (IVHS). 8. The information collection system recited in claim 1 wherein communications between mobile units comprise prioritized communications of a plurality of events. 9. The information collection system recited in claim 1 wherein a mobile unit communicates with the central monitoring station through a wireless cellular communications network. 10. The information collection system recited in claim 1, further comprising an environmental condition sensor, wherein mobile units communicate a sensed environmental condition and a location thereof. 11. The information collection system recited in claim 1 further comprising a graphic user interface. 12. The information collection system recited in claim 1 wherein communications comprise geographically relevant advertisements. 13. An automated traffic mapping system comprising: a plurality of mobile units installed in vehicles in traffic, each said mobile unit having both a wireless communication device and apparatus that determines location of a vehicle on which it is installed; processing means in each of said mobile units, said processing means communicating prioritized traffic information to other vehicle mobile units in a self-organizing communication network in a region via said wireless communication device and receiving traffic information from other mobile units in said region via said wireless communication device and processing said location information to evaluate local traffic of said region; and a central monitoring station receiving location information from a plurality of said mobile units. 14. The automated traffic mapping system recited in claim 13, further comprising an environmental condition sensor, wherein mobile units map a sensed environmental condition and a location thereof. 15. A computer implemented method of automated traffic mapping comprising the steps of: receiving at a central monitoring station information from a plurality of mobile units installed on vehicles; generating a map of traffic conditions at the central station and transmitting traffic information to the mobile units; receiving and displaying the traffic information at the mobile units; and communicating prioritized traffic information by communications which hop between mobile units in a self-organizing communication network. 16. The computer implemented method of automated traffic mapping recited in claim 15, wherein said communications which hop from one or more mobile units to the central monitoring station are implemented as a store and forward architecture. 