A data storage library and method of operation are disclosed wherein access at least to part of at least one robotic mechanism from the data storage library's exterior is permitted. Access is accomplished through a service port in the library's housing. Access to the storage cells, and thus the data cartridges sitting therein, from the library's exterior is blocked. Blocking access to the storage cells may be provided by a geometry of the service port itself, or by a combination of a door and the robotic mechanism being serviced filling the opening created by the service port. For robotic mechanisms operating on a track, part of the track may be routed through the service port to bring the robotic mechanisms to the exterior of the library for maintenance purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library comprising: a housing defining an exterior and interior region; a robotic mechanism disposed in the interior region; a plurality of storage cells disposed in the interior region for storing data cartridges; and a service port disposed through the housing for permitting access to at least part of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region, and for blocking access to the data cartridges from the exterior region; wherein, to block access to the data cartridges from the exterior region, the service port comprises a geometry that prohibits personnel from reaching from the exterior region through the service port into the interior region. 2. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein the service port is configured such that the robotic mechanism is movable through the service port from the interior region to the exterior region. 3. The data storage library of the claim 1 wherein, to block access to the data cartridges from the exterior region, the service port is located in the housing in a spaced relation from the plurality of storage cells disposed in the interior region. 4. The data storage library of claim 3 wherein the service port is configured such that the robotic mechanism is movable through the service port from the interior region to the exterior region. 5. The data storage library of claim 1 further comprising a track traversing the service port, wherein the robotic mechanism is movable alone the track to permit service of the robotic mechanism. 6. The data storage library of claim 5 wherein the service port is configured such that the robotic mechanism is movable through the service port from the interior region to the exterior region. 7. The data storage library of claim 6 wherein in the track comprises an open end in the exterior region, the open end allowing the robotic mechanism to be removed and installed onto the track in the exterior region. 8. The data storage library of claim 5 wherein in the track comprises an open end in the exterior region, the open end allowing the robotic mechanism to be removed and installed onto the track in the exterior region. 