An assembly for promoting the growth of plant tissues that includes a plurality of plates each defining an array of wells wherein each of the wells contains a tissue sample. Support for the plates is provided by a rack having a plurality of vertically stacked shelves that may include one or more register depressions that urge the plates into predetermined positions. Light for the tissue samples is provided by a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays each mounted on a circuit board. Each circuit board is supported by a respective card edge connector of the rack so that the light-emitting diodes are in proximity to the plates supported on one of the shelves therebelow. Preferably, the light-emitting diode array corresponds to the well array supported in the registered position on the shelf therebelow so that each light-emitting diode is centered above a respective one of the wells.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising: a plate defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; and a plurality of light-emitting diodes arranged in a light-emitting diode array corresponding to the well array such that each of the light-emitting diodes is positioned opposite a respective one of the wells so as to shine light into the respective one of the wells and promote proliferation of the tissue supported therein. 2. An assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the light-emitting diodes is centered above its respective one of the wells. 3. An assembly of claim 2, wherein each of the light-emitting diodes is one inch or less from the tissue sample in its respective one of the wells. 4. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising: a plurality of plates, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other and configured to support at least one of the plates; and a plurality of light-emitting diode array supported by the rack and cooperating respectively with the supports so that light from the light-emitting diode array shines into the wells of the plate and promotes growth of the tissue samples contained therein, wherein each of the light-emitting diode arrays comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes arranged in an array corresponding to the well array of the plate such that each of the light emitting diodes is positioned opposite a respective one of the wells. 5. An assembly of claim 4, wherein each of the supports include a register device which urges the plate supported thereon into a register position such that each of the light emitting diodes is centered opposite its respective one of the wells. 6. An assembly of claim 5, wherein the support comprises a shelf and the register device is a register depression defined in the shelf. 7. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising; a plurality of plates, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other and configured to support at least one of the plates; and a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays supported by the rack and cooperating respectively with the supports so that light from the light-emitting diode array shines into the wells of the plate and promotes growth of the tissue samples contained therein, wherein each of the light-emitting diode arrays includes a circuit board and plurality of light-emitting diodes carried by the circuit board and wherein the rack further includes a plurality of card edge connectors each configured to receive the circuit board of one of the light-emitting diode arrays and support the circuit board and light-emitting diodes above the respective one of the shelves. 8. An assembly of claim 7, wherein the supports are spaced at most two inches apart. 9. An assembly for housing a plurality of plates and supplying light to a plurality of tissue samples, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells supporting one of the tissue samples, said assembly comprising: a rack including a plurality of supports spaced from each other; and a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays each including a plurality of light-emitting diodes arranged in an array corresponding to the well array wherein each of the light-emitting diode arrays is supported by the rack opposite a respective one of the shelves so that light from each of the light-emitting diodes shines into a respective one of the wells of the plate supported on the shelf. 10. An assembly of claim 9, wherein each of the shelves is configured to urge at least one of the plurality of plates into a register position. 11. An assembly of claim 9, wherein each of the shelves defines a register depression shaped to urge the plate into a register position. 12. A system for high-throughput processing of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said system comprising: a plurality of plates, each plate defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to isolate and hold one of the tissue samples; a rack having a plurality of shelves vertically spaced from each other, each of the shelves supporting at least one of the plates; a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays, each of the light-emitting diode arrays positioned above a respective one of the plurality of shelves so as to shine light into the wells of the plates; and an automated manipulation system including at least one plate manipulator having a range of motion wherein the rack is positioned so that the plates are within the range of motion of the plate manipulator and wherein the plate manipulator is capable of supporting and removing each plate from the rack for automated processing of the tissue samples contained therein. 13. A method of promoting growth of tissue samples contained in multiple well plates having a plurality of wells arranged in an array, wherein each well isolates and supports one of the tissue samples, said method comprising: loading the wells of the well plates with the tissue samples; positioning each well plate on a support opposite an array of light-emitting diodes; shining light from the light-emitting diodes into the respective wells of the well plates; removing each well plate from the support for additional downstream processing; and urging the well plate into a registered position on the support until each light-emitting diode is centered opposite a respective one of the wells of the well plates. 14. A method of promoting growth of tissue samples contained in multiple well plates having a plurality of wells arranged in an array, wherein each well isolates and supports one of the tissue samples, said method comprising: loading the wells of the well plates with the tissue samples; positioning each well plate on a support opposite an array of light-emitting diodes; shining light from the light-emitting diodes into the respective wells of the well plates; and removing each well plate from the support for additional downstream processing; wherein loading, positioning and supporting are performed by an automated system. 15. An assembly for promoting growth of tissue samples requiring light to support proliferation, said assembly comprising: a plurality of plates, each of the plates defining therein a plurality of wells arranged in a well array, each of the plurality of wells configured to support and isolate one of the tissue samples; a rack including a plurality of shelves and a plurality of card edge connectors, said shelves vertically spaced from each other with each shelf supporting at least one of the plates in a register depression which urges the plate into a register position and said card edge connectors each positioned above a respective one of the shelves; and a plurality of light-emitting diode arrays supported above the shelves by the card edge connectors, each of the light-emitting diode arrays including a plurality of light-emitting diodes and a circuit board, said circuit board carrying the light-emitting diodes in an array corresponding to the well array of the plate such that each of the light emitting diodes is positioned opposite a respective one of the wells and centered over its respective well when the plate is in the registered position. 16. A method of promoting growth of tissue samples contained in multiple well plates having a plurality of wells arranged in an array, wherein each well isolates and supports one of the tissue samples, said method comprising: loading the wells of the well plates with the tissue samples; automatically positioning each well plate on a support opposite an array of light-emitting diodes; shining light from the light-emitting diodes into the wells of the well plates; and automatically removing each well plate from the support for additional downstream processing. 17. A method of claim 16, wherein the loading the wells with tissue samples is performed automatically. 18. A method of claim 17, wherein automatically loading, positioning and removing are performed by robotic systems. 19. A method of promoting growth of tissue samples, said method comprising: loading the tissue samples into individual wells of a multiple well plate and positioning the tissue samples opposite a respective one of the white light-emitting diodes; and shining white light on the tissue samples using the white light-emitting diodes. 20. A method of promoting growth of tissue samples, said method comprising: loading the tissue samples into individual wells of a multiple well plate and positioning the tissue samples opposite a respective one of the white light-emitting diodes; wherein the loading and positioning are performed automatically. 