A method for chemically bonding semiconductor wafers and other materials to one another without exposing wafers to wet environments, and a bonding chamber for in situ plasma bonding are disclosed. The in situ plasma bonding chamber allows plasma activation and bonding to occur without disruption of the vacuum level. This precludes rinsing of the surfaces after placement in the chamber, but allows for variations in ultimate pressure, plasma gas species, and backfill gases. The resulting bonded materials are free from macroscopic and microscopic voids. The initial bond is much stronger than conventional bonding techniques, thereby allowing for rougher materials to be bonded to one another. These bonded materials can be used for bond and etchback silicon on insulator, high voltage and current devices, radiation resistant devices, micromachined sensors and actuators, and hybrid semiconductor applications. This technique is not limited to semiconductors. Any material with sufficiently smooth surfaces that can withstand the vacuum and plasma environments may be bonded in this fashion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for in-situ plasma bonding of semiconductor substrates, comprising: placing a first substrate and a second substrate into a plasma chamber equipped with a bonding apparatus, the first substrate having a first face and the second substrate having a second face; maintaining the first substrate and the second substrate in a vacuum in the plasma chamber; exposing the first face and exposing the second face to a plasma; and placing the first face in contact with the second face to initialize a bond between the first face and the second face without breaking vacuum in the plasma chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma comprises hydrogen bearing species. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma comprises an oxygen bearing species. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma comprises an argon with hydrogen. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma comprises an NH4 bearing species. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the first face comprises an insulating material. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the second face comprises an insulating material. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising rinsing and drying the first substrate and the second substrate before the placing step. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the plasma reduces a surface species of the first face and the second face. 10. A method for in-situ plasma bonding of semiconductor substrates, comprising: placing a first substrate and a second substrate into a plasma chamber, the first substrate having a first face and the second substrate having a second face; maintaining the first substrate and the second substrate in a vacuum in the plasma chamber; exposing at least the first face or at least the second face to a plasma; placing the first face in contact with the second face to initialize a bond between the first face and the second face without breaking vacuum in the plasma chamber; and removing the bonded first substrate and the second substrate from the plasma chamber. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said plasma comprises hydrogen bearing species. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said plasma comprises an oxygen bearing species. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said plasma comprises an argon with hydrogen. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein said plasma comprises an NH4 bearing species. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein the first face comprises an insulating material. 16. The method of claim 10 wherein the second face comprises an insulating material. 17. The method of claim 10 further comprising rinsing and drying the first substrate and the second substrate before the placing step. 18. The method of claim 10 wherein the plasma reduces a surface species of the fist face and the second face. 19. A method for in-situ plasma bonding of semiconductor substrates, comprising: placing a first substrate and a second substrate into a plasma chamber, the first substrate having a first face and the second substrate having a second face; maintaining the first substrate and the second substrate in a vacuum in the plasma chamber; exposing at least the first face or at least the second face to a plasma; and placing the first face in contact with the second face to initialize a bond between the first face and the second face without breaking vacuum in the plasma chamber. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said plasma comprises hydrogen bearing species. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said plasma comprises an oxygen bearing species. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein said plasma comprises an argon with hydrogen. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein said plasma comprises an NH4 bearing species. 24. The method of claim 19 wherein the first face comprises an insulating material. 25. The method of claim 19 wherein the second face comprises an insulating material. 26. The method of claim 19 further comprising rinsing and drying the first substrate and the second substrate before the placing step. 27. The method of claim 19 wherein the plasma reduces a surface species of the first face and the second face. 