In one embodiment the invention is An adhesive composition comprising a) a polymer having a flexible backbone and a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, b) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises a side chain crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is not substantially extractable from the particle at ambient conditions in a first extraction after particle formation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adhesive composition comprising a) a polymer having a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, b) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer or does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process; wherein about 1 percent by weight or less of the active agent is extractable from the particle at ambient conditions during the first extraction after particle formation when the particles are contacted with a solvent for the active agent which solvent is not a solvent for the crystallizable polymer, and wherein the composition exhibits a tensile strength upon cure of about 250 psi or greater. 2. An adhesive according to claim 1 wherein the polymer is a polyurethane prepolymer having isocyanate functionality, an epoxy resin, a polyolefin having a silane moiety capable of silanol condensation or hydrosilylation, a polyether having a silane moiety capable of silanol condensation or hydrosilylation or a polyurethane having an olefinic reactive moiety. 3. An adhesive composition according to claim 1 wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer and does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process. 4. The adhesive composition of claim 3 wherein the active agent is an organotin compound. 5. An adhesive according to claim 4 wherein the polymer is a polyurethane prepolymer having isocyanate functionality, an epoxy resin, or a polyether having a silane moiety capable of silanol condensation. 6. An adhesive composition according to claim 4 wherein the polymer comprises an alkylene oxide based polymer having a reactive silicon moiety bound thereto and the active agent is a silanol condensation catalyst encapsulated in an encapsulating agent having a transition point of from about 40.degree. C. to about 250.degree. C. 7. An adhesive composition according to claim 6 wherein the polymer comprises an alkylene oxide based polymer having a reactive silicon moiety bound thereto and the active agent is a silanol condensation catalyst encapsulated in an encapsulating agent having a transition point of from about 40.degree. C. to about 250.degree. C. 8. An adhesive composition according to claim 7 wherein the encapsulating agent is a side chain crystalline polymer. 9. The adhesive composition according to claim 4 wherein the active agent is dibutyltin oxide, dialkyltin bis (acetylacetonate), or the reaction product of dibutyltin oxide with a phthalic ester or pentanedione. 10. The adhesive composition according to claim 9 wherein the crystalline polymer is a side chain crystallizable polymer which comprises a polymer or copolymer of an alkyl acrylate or alkyl methacrylate wherein the polymer has substituted or unsubstituted side chains of about 6 to about 50 carbon atoms. 11. The adhesive composition according to claim 10 wherein the polymer comprises a C.sub.22 side chain alkyl acrylate. 12. An adhesive composition according to claim 3 wherein the encapsulated active agent is prepared by the process steps of a) contacting the active agent with the crystallizable polymer wherein the polymer is molten and the active agent is not volatile under the contacting conditions; b) forming particles of about 3000 microns or less; and c) exposing the particles to conditions such that the portion of the particle at and near the surface undergoes rapid solidification such that the particle formed has a different crystal structure at and near the surface of the particle. 13. An adhesive composition according to claim 3 wherein the encapsulated active agent is prepared according to the process which comprises heating a crystallizable polymer under conditions such that the polymer is molten; contacting an active agent with the molten polymer to dissolve the active agent within the polymer; pouring the active agent dissolved in the polymer on a rotating disk such that particles of the active agent in the polymer are formed, spun from the disk and solidified. 14. An adhesive composition according to claim 1 which further comprises an encapsulated adhesion promoter. 