A hinged handle, such as a breaker bar for an interior of an automobile vehicle. The hinged handle includes an arch hinged on at least one mechanism configured to fasten the arch on a support. The fastening mechanism includes an expandable pin and a stud engaged in the pin and that is movable between a first position in which the stud is idle and a second position in which the stud causes the pin to expand. The arch of the handle can be pivoted to strike the stud, causing the stud to move from the first position to the second position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Hinged handle, comprising: an arch hinged on at least one mechanism configured to fasten said arch on a support, wherein said mechanism configured to fasten includes an expandable pin and a stud engaged in said pin and movable between a first position in which the stud is idle and a second position in which the stud causes the pin to expand, wherein said mechanism configured to fasten comprises at least one elastic bridge formed on the stud for retaining the stud temporarily in the first position, the arch of said handle configured to be pivoted to strike said stud, causing the stud to move from the first position to the second position. 2. Handle according to claim 1, comprising two mechanisms configured to fasten, each hinged to one of two ends of the arch, said two mechanisms configured to fasten comprising means including at least one elastic bridge formed on the studs for retaining the studs temporarily in the first position. 3. Handle according to claim 2, wherein said means for retaining further includes one rib, and one groove complementing one another, one of the one rib and groove is formed on said bridge and the other of the one rib and groove is formed on said pin, engagement of the groove in the rib defining the first position of the stud. 4. Handle according to claim 2, further comprising a return spring mounted on the hinge of at least one of said two mechanisms configured to fasten to load the arch elastically toward the second position. 5. Hinged handle according to claim 1, wherein each mechanism configured to fasten is engaged in a hole of the support, the stud being mounted in the first position on the pin, and wherein the arch of the handle is pivoted on a head of the stud to make the stud pass by impact to the second position, in which the stud produces expansion and locking of the pin in said hole. 6. Hinged handle according to claim 1, applied to a support forming part of a passenger compartment of a motor vehicle containing a ceiling configured to be covered with a roof liner, wherein, on an outside of the passenger compartment plural handles are mounted on said liner by engaging the pins of those handles in openings of the liner, an assembly thus formed is introduced in the passenger compartment by engaging the pins in holes in the passenger compartment provided to receive the pin, and the handles are pivoted to control by impact expansion and locking of the pins in said holes. 7. Hinged handle according to claim 6, wherein, prior to introduction of the roof liner in the passenger compartment, at least one airbag is fastened along at least one of side edges of a face of said liner which is to come opposite the roof. 8. Motor vehicle body ceiling comprising a liner fastened in proximity to an interior face of a roof of the vehicle and means for fastening the liner on said roof, wherein said means for fastening includes at least one fastening of at least one handle according to claim 1. 9. Body ceiling according to claim 8, wherein at least one airbag is installed between said liner and said roof next to a side edge of the liner. 10. Body ceiling according to claim 9, wherein said at least one airbag is fastened on said liner by at least one brittle lug. 11. Body ceiling according to claim 10, wherein said at least one brittle lug is formed in one piece with said liner and laterally projects from said liner beyond a brittle fold line. 12. Body ceiling according to claim 11, wherein said at least one brittle lug is pressed down on said bag and fastened by its end on a face of the liner which is opposite the roof. 13. Body ceiling according to claim 9, wherein said at least one airbag is folded in an elongated shape and fastened between the roof and a side edge of the liner, the liner being deformable at a level to permit expansion of the air bag out of a space in which the airbag is folded, when the airbag is inflated under action of a gas generator activated by a collision. 14. Body ceiling according to claim 13, wherein the at least one handle fasting the liner equipped with the at least one airbag is placed in proximity to said bags, and wherein said at least one handle is equipped with means to be pivoted upon deployment of the bags, without being detached from the support. 15. Hinged handle, comprising: an arch hinged on at least one mechanism configured to fasten said arch on a support, wherein said mechanism configured to fasten includes an expandable pin and a stud engaged in said pin and movable between a first position in which the stud is idle and a second position in which the stud causes the pin to expand, the arch of said handle configured to be pivoted to strike said stud, causing the stud to move from the first position to the second position, wherein the pin includes a brittle member that engages the support when the stud is in the second position, and wherein the brittle member is configured to be broken under a predetermined stress whereby said hinged handle is allowed to pivot with respect to the support. 