The inventive bioprocessing system (and technique) relies on non-invasive optical chemical sensing technology wherein an optical excitation source excites an optical chemical sensor. The optical chemical sensor then emits luminescence or absorbs light which is measured by a detector. The luminescence emitted from the chemical sensor or the amount of light absorbed by the chemical sensor is related to the concentration of an analyte, such as oxygen. If the luminescence emitted changes, or if the amount of light absorbed changes, then the concentration of the analyte has changed. Using such a system to measure and adjust multiple parameters at one time allows one to efficiently and cost-effectively determine optimal conditions for a given cell type and/or cell environment, for example. By combining cell cultivation with optical chemical sensing technology, cultivation can be successfully and rapidly performed, controlled and monitored in small volumes in an automated, parallel fashion at less expense than current bioprocess techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring at least two cultivation parameters in a cell culture, comprising: (a) establishing at least one cell culture in at least one bioreactor, wherein each bioreactor comprises at least two optical chemical sensors; (b) exciting the at least two optical chemical sensors to generate emission and/or light absorption; (c) detecting the emission and/or absorption generated by the at least two optical chemical sensors in (b); and (d) analyzing the detected emission and/or absorption detected in (c) to assess the at least two cultivation parameters measured. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least two optical chemical sensors are excited using at least one light emitting diode per optical chemical sensor. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the emission and/or absorption is detected using at least one photodetector, wherein the wavelength range of the photodetector corresponds to an emission and/or absorption wavelength of the photodetector's respective optical chemical sensor. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least two cultivation parameters measured are selected from the group consisting of: pH, dissolved oxygen, carbon dioxide, glucose concentration, nutrient concentration, lactate concentration, phosphate concentration, ammonia concentration, metal ion concentration, temperature and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein an optical density of the cell culture is measured. 6. A method of measuring at least two cultivation parameters in at least two cell cultures, comprising: (a) establishing at least one cell culture in at least two bioreactors in parallel, wherein each bioreactor comprises at least two optical chemical sensors; (b) exciting the optical chemical sensors to generate emission and/or light absorption; (c) detecting the emission and/or absorption generated by the optical sensors in (b); and (d) analyzing the detected emission and/or absorption detected in (c) to assess the at least two cultivation parameters measured. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least two optical chemical sensors are excited using at least one light emitting diode per optical chemical sensor. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the emission and/or absorption is detected using a spectrometer and diode array. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least two cultivation parameters measured are selected from the group consisting of: pH, dissolved oxygen, carbon dioxide, glucose concentration, phosphate concentration, ammonia concentration, lactate concentration, metal ion concentration, nutrient concentration, temperature and combinations thereof. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the optical densities of the at least two cell cultures are measured. 11. A method of optimizing at least two cultivation parameters in a cell culture, comprising: (a) establishing at least one cell culture in at least one bioreactor, wherein each bioreactor comprises at least two optical chemical sensors; (b) exciting the at least two optical chemical sensors to generate emission and/or light absorption; (c) detecting the emission and/or absorption generated by the at least two optical chemical sensors in (b); and (d) analyzing the detected emission and/or absorption in (c) to determine whether or not to adjust culture conditions to obtain optimization of the at least two cultivation parameters. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least two optical chemical sensors are excited using at least one light emitting diode per optical chemical sensor. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the emission and/or absorption is detected using at least one photodetector, wherein the wavelength range of the at least one photodetector corresponds to an emission and/or absorption wavelength of the photodetector's respective optical chemical sensor. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least two cultivation parameters measured are selected from the group consisting of: pH, dissolved oxygen, carbon dioxide, glucose concentration, nutrient concentration, temperature, lactate concentration, ammonia concentration, phosphate concentration, metal ion concentration and combinations thereof. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein an optical density of the cell culture is determined. 16. A method of optimizing at least two cultivation parameters in at least two cell cultures, comprising: (a) establishing at least one cell culture in at least two bioreactors in parallel, wherein each bioreactor comprises at least two optical chemical sensors; (b) exciting the optical chemical sensors to generate emission and/or light absorption; (c) detecting the emission and/or absorption generated by the optical chemical sensors; and (d) analyzing the detected emission and/or absorption obtained in (c) to determine whether or not to adjust culture conditions to obtain optimization of the at least two cultivation parameters. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the optical chemical sensors are excited using at least one light emitting diode per optical chemical sensor. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the emission and/or absorption is detected using a spectrometer and diode array. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the two cultivation parameters measured are selected from the group consisting of: pH, dissolved oxygen, carbon dioxide, glucose concentration, nutrient concentration, temperature, lactate concentration, ammonia concentration, phosphate concentration, metal ion concentration and combinations thereof. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein an optical density of each of the at least two cell cultures is are determined. 