This invention relates to a method for the determination of solubility of a compound and an analytical device for carrying out said method. The basic method involves determining solubility of a compound by measuring the UV spectrum of a reference solution of the compound, under conditions avoiding or suppressing precipitation, and comparing it to the UV spectrum of a saturated sample solution of the compound. Variations of the basic method include: (a) making reference solutions either by dilution of the sample solution to the point where precipitation is avoided, or making reference solutions by adding a water-miscible cosolvent to the sample solution so that precipitation is suppressed, and comparing the UV absorbances of the compound under reference conditions to the compound in a saturated solution, (b) determining the true aqueous solubility from the effect on the pK.sub.a that results from dissolving the compound in an aqueous solution containing some DMSO (typically 0.1-5% v/v), and (c) correcting concentrations determined from the UV absorbance values for impurities and other factors that might affect the shape of the sample absorbance curve taken of the saturated solution.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for high-throughput spectrophotometric measurement of the aqueous solubility of a compound, said compound having limited solubility in an aqueous buffer, not requiring knowledge or measurement of the molar absorptivity of said compound, and not requiring a calibration curve relating known concentrations of said compound to spectrophotometric properties of said compound, comprising: a. preparing a sample solution of said compound in an aqueous buffer of known pH, and separating said sample solution from any precipitate, b. preparing a reference solution that has a known concentration of said compound in said buffer, under conditions avoiding or suppressing precipitation, c. preparing a blank solution free of said compound, but otherwise of the same composition as said reference solution, d. measuring a spectrophotometric property of said sample, reference, and blank solutions, with or without further dilution thereof with cosolvent, wherein said cosolvent possesses one or more of the properties selected from the group consisting of (1) high capacity to dissolve said compound, (2) low UV absorption, and (3) low vapor pressure and e. determining the concentration of said sample solution by comparing the measured spectrophotometric property of said sample, reference and blank solutions, and calculating from said determination the aqueous solubility of said compound if said sample solution constitutes a saturated solution. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said spectrophotometric property is selected from the group consisting of UV range spectrophotometry, visible range spectrophotometry, colorimetry, polarimetry, optical rotation, fluorimetry and circular dichroism detection. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: a. said reference solution is prepared by dissolving a known quantity of said compound or stock solution containing said compound in a known volume of said buffer wherein a calculated concentration of said reference solution is known, and wherein said calculation ignores any precipitation of said compound, and b. said sample solution is prepared by dissolving a known quantity of said compound or stock solution containing said compound in a known volume of said buffer wherein a calculated concentration of said sample solution is known and is greater than said calculated concentration of said reference solution, and wherein said calculation ignores any precipitation of said compound, said method comprising (1) determining a ratio equal to said measured spectophotometric property of said reference solution divided by said measured spectrophotometric property of said sample solution, said properties corrected for said specrophotometric property of said blank solution, (2) determining a factor equal to said calculated concentration of said reference solution divided by said calculated concentration of said sample solution, wherein said solubility is equal to (a) said calculated concentration of said reference solution divided by said ratio when said ratio is either greater than 1, or is less than 1 but greater than said factor, (b) or is less than said calculated concentration of said reference solution when said ratio is equal to 1, (c) or is greater than said calculated concentration of said sample solution when said ratio is equal to said factor. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said compound is presented as a stock solution in DMSO and said spectrophotometric property is UV range absorbance. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein: a. said reference solution is prepared by adding an aliquot of said stock solution to a volume of DMSO and then adding a portion of that DMSO solution to a volume of aqueous buffer, and b. said sample solution is prepared by adding an aliquot of said stock solution to a volume of said buffer, after which said sample solution is separated from any precipitate. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein: a. said reference solution is prepared by diluting 1 aliquot of said stock solution with 19 aliquots of DMSO; and 1 aliquot of said diluted solution is further diluted with 3 aliquots of DMSO and 400 aliquots of said buffer, b. said sample solution is prepared by diluting 1 aliquot of said stock solution with 400 aliquots of said buffer, allowing said solution to equilibrate for several hours, after which any insoluble compound is separated from said sample solution, c. said method comprising determining a ratio equal to said measured spectophotometric property of said reference solution divided by said measured spectrophotometric property of said sample solution, said properties corrected for said specrophotometric property of said blank solution, wherein said solubility is equal to (1) said calculated concentration of said reference solution divided by said ratio when said ratio is either greater than 1, or is less than 1 but greater than 1/20 factor, (2) or is less than said calculated concentration of said reference solution when said ratio is equal to 1, (3) or is greater than said calculated concentration of said sample solution when said ratio is equal to 1/20 factor. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein a. said blank is prepared by diluting said buffer with said cosolvent, b. said reference solution is prepared by diluting stock solution with DMSO, said butter, and said cosolvent to avoid or suppress any precipitation, wherein a calculated concentration of said reference solution is known, c. said sample solution is prepared by diluting stock solution with said buffer, separating said sample solution from any precipitate, wherein a calculated concentration of said sample solution is known, wherein said calculation ignores any precipitation, and d. further diluting said sample solution with said cosolvent, wherein the term 1+Y/Z , where Y is the volume of said cosolvent and Z is the volume of said sample solution, is known and is greater than 1; said method comprising (1) determining a ratio equal to said measured spectophotometric property of said reference solution divided by said measured spectrophotometric property of said further diluted sample solution, said properties corrected for said specrophotometric property of said blank solution, (2) determining a factor equal to said calculated concentration of said reference solution divided by said calculated concentration of said sample solution and multiplied by said term, wherein said solubility is equal to (a) said calculated concentration of said reference solution divided by said ratio and multiplied by said term when said ratio is greater than said factor, (b) or is greater than said calculated concentration of said sample solution when said ratio is equal to said factor. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said cosolvent is selected from the group consisting of acetonitrile, methanol, ethanol, iso-propanol, 1-propanol, 1,4-dioxane, dimethylformamide, acetone, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol 400, tetrahydrofuran, DMSO and mixtures thereof. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said cosolvent is 1-propanol. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein: a. said blank is prepared by diluting 1 aliquot of said buffer with 1 aliquot of said cosolvent, b. said reference solution is prepared by diluting 1 aliquot of stock solution with 19 aliquots of DMSO; and 1 aliquot of said diluted solution is further diluted by 15 aliquots of said buffer and 15 aliquots of said cosolvent; c. said sample solution is prepared by diluting 1 aliquot of stock solution with 400 aliquots of said buffer, allowing said sample solution to equilibrate for several hours, after which said sample solution is separated from any precipitate; and 1 aliquot of said sample solution is further diluted by 1 aliquot of cosolvent, wherein said term is equal to 2; said method comprising determining said ratio, wherein said solubility is equal to (1) said calculated concentration of said reference solution divided by said ratio and multiplied by 2 when said ratio is greater than said factor, (2) or is greater than said calculated concentration of said sample solution when said ratio is equal to said factor. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said spectrophotometric property is determined at more than one wavelength, and the values at said wavelengths are corrected to account for the presence of interferences, said corrections being based on a. comparing the shape of the spectrophotometric property--wavelength curve measured for said reference solution to the shape of said curve measured for said sample solution, and b. applying weighting factors, wherein those portions of said curve associated with said sample solution that differ from the corresponding curve associated with said reference solution contribute less to said method than those where said shapes are similar. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said buffer provides constant buffering capacity over the range of pH 3-10 and has low-UV absorbance. 13. Method of claim 12, wherein a. said buffer is titrated with a standardized strong acid or strong base titrant solution in the pH interval 3-10; b. said titration procedure produces a titration curve, linearly relating volumes of titrant to pH values; c. said titration curve is used to calculate the appropriate volume of said titrant to add to said sample, said reference, and said blank solutions made with said buffer, to establish the pH values of the solutions, without actually having to measure the pH values of the solutions using a conventional pH electrode. 14. The method for high-throughput spectrophotometric measurement of the aqueous solubility of a compound, said compound having limited solubility in an aqueous buffer, not requiring knowledge or measurement of the molar absorptivity of said compound, and not requiring a calibration curve relating known concentrations of said compound to spectrophotometric properties of said compound, comprising: a. preparing a sample solution of said compound in an aqueous buffer of known pH, and separating said sample solution from any precipitate, b. preparing a reference solution that has a known concentration of said compound in said buffer, under conditions avoiding or suppressing precipitation, c. preparing a blank solution free of said compound, but otherwise of the same composition as said reference solution, d. measuring a spectrophotometric property of said sample, reference, and blank solutions, with or without further dilution thereof with cosolvent, wherein said cosolvent possesses one or more of the properties selected from the group consisting of (1) high capacity to dissolve said compound, (2) low UV absorption, and (3) low vapor pressure, and e. determining the concentration of the sample solution by comparing the measured spectrophotometric property of said sample, reference and blank solutions, and calculating from said determination the solubility of said compound if said sample solution constitutes a saturated solution, wherein said compound is ionizable and anomalies are present in solution, several measurements of said aqueous solubility are made, each at a different known value of pH, and the intrinsic aqueous solubility is determined, said method comprising i. plotting the logarithm of the aqueous solubility of said compound against pH to produce a logarithm aqueous solubility-pH curve, ii. obtaining the apparent pK.sub.a of said compound in said solution having said anomaly by locating the pH value at the intersection of the horizontal asymptote indicating the logarithm of the apparent intrinsic solubility and the diagonal asymptote of said logarithm aqueous solubility-pH curve, iii. independently obtaining the pK.sub.a of said compound in aqueous solution free of said anomaly and determining the apparent shift of the pK.sub.a caused by said anomaly, and iv. using said apparent shift of the pK.sub.a to remove the effect of the anomaly and determine the intrinsic aqueous solubility of said compound. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said anomaly is caused by one or more factors selected from the group consisting of: a. self-association effects, b. presence of bile acids or other surfactants, c. presence of cyclodextrins, d. presence of ion-pair forming counterions, e. presence of non-ionizable polymers, f. presence of phospholipids, and g. presence of DMSO. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said anomaly is caused by the presence of DMSO, and said pK.sub.a of said compound in butter free of anomaly is determined by using known analytical techniques, said method comprising a. determining the apparent pK.sub.a of said compound in said solution having said anomaly by locating on said logarithm aqueous solubility-pH curve the pH value at the intersection of the horizontal asymptote indicating the apparent aqueous intrinsic solubility and the diagonal asymptote of said curve, b. determining the difference between (1) said apparent pK.sub.a of said compound in said solution having said anomaly and (2) the pK.sub.a of said compound in aqueous solution free of anomaly, and c. provided that, (1) for ionizable acids, said difference is greater than zero, or (2) for ionizable bases, said difference is less than zero, subtracting or adding for ionizable acids or bases, respectively, said difference to the logarithm of said apparent intrinsic solubility to determine the logarithm of the intrinsic aqueous solubility of said compound in said buffer free of said anomaly. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein said spectrophotometric property is determined at more than one wavelength, and the values at said wavelengths are corrected to account for the presence of interferences, said corrections being based on a. comparing the shape of the spectrophotometric property--wavelength curve measured for said reference solution to the shape of said curve measured for said sample solution, and b. applying weighting factors, wherein those portions of said curve associated with said sample solution that differ from the corresponding curve associated with said reference solution contribute less to said method than those where said shapes are similar. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said spectrophotometric property is UV absorbance and said interferences are spurious spectrophotometric anomalies due to impurities, dust, or air bubbles. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein said buffer provides constant buffering capacity over the range of pH 3-10 and has low-UV absorbance. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said buffer comprises acetic acid, MES, HEPES and boric acid dissolved in water, with concentrations selected to ensure constant buffer capacity. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein said buffer comprises glycolic acid, MES, HEPES, and taurine, dissolved in a mixture of water and acetonitrile, with concentrations selected to ensure constant buffer capacity. 