An intelligent assist system having a modular architecture, coordinated by electronic communication links between the modules. Modules for motion, computation, interface, and programming are disclosed in exemplary embodiments.
Claims We claim: 1. An intelligent trolley module for use in an intelligent assist system, the intelligent trolley module comprising: a plurality of wheels on the intelligent trolley module and configured to move the trolley module along an overhead track; an actuator on the intelligent trolley module for driving at least one of the wheels in a horizontal direction; a computational node on the intelligent trolley module for controlling the actuator; and a communication interface on the intelligent trolley module for interfacing with an information network and for providing input/output digital communication between the computational node on the intelligent trolley module, and at least one a computational node on at least one other module within the intelligent assist system via a common data link. 2. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 wherein the actuator comprises a gearing. 3. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 wherein the actuator comprises a motor. 4. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 wherein the computational node implements a virtual limit controlling motion of the trolley. 5. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 further comprising a roller. 6. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 further comprising a manually operable roller release. 7. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 further comprising an automatic roller release. 8. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 further comprising a position indicator for indexing motion of the device. 9. The intelligent trolley of claim 8 wherein the position indicator comprises a hall switch. 10. The intelligent trolley of claim 1 wherein the computational node uses odometry for monitoring the motion of the trolley. 11. An intelligent lift module for use in an intelligent assist system, the intelligent lift module comprising: an actuator on the intelligent lift module; a support connected to the actuator and configured to move a payload in a substantially vertical direction; a computational node on the intelligent lift module in communication with the actuator for controlling movement of the payload; and a communication interface on the intelligent lift module for interfacing with an information network and for providing input/output digital communication between the computational node on the intelligent lift module, and at least one computational node on at least one other module within the intelligent assist system via a common data link. 12. The intelligent lift module of claim 11 wherein the support comprises a cable. 13. The intelligent lift module of claim 11 wherein the cable is raised and lowered by a reel. 14. The intelligent lift module of claim 13 wherein the reel comprises a translating reel. 15. The intelligent lift module of claim 14 wherein the reel comprises a slidable translating reel. 16. The intelligent lift module of claim 14 wherein the reel further comprises a cam follower. 17. The intelligent lift module of claim 11 further comprising a replaceable guide unit containing a cam follower. 18. The intelligent lift module of claim 11 further comprising a position indicator. 19. The intelligent lift module of claim 17 further comprising a hall switch. 20. The intelligent lift module of claim 17 further comprising a motor encoder. 21. The intelligent lift module of claim 17 wherein the reel comprises a plurality of hall switches configured to index multiple rotations of the reel. 22. The intelligent lift module of claim 11 further comprising a virtual limit to the lift. 23. An input device for use in an intelligent assist system, the input device comprising: a handle for gripping; and at least one proportional control; wherein the input device is in communication with a computational node disposed on a multi-function hub, wherein the proportional control when moved provides a proportional output signal to the computational node, and wherein the computational node on the multi-function hub passes the output signal to at least one computational node on at least one other module within the intelligent assist system via a common data link, and wherein the multi-function hub interfaces with an information network. 24. The input device of claim 23 wherein the input device comprises a pendant. 25. The input device of claim 23, wherein the output signal comprises one of an up signal to lift a payload up and a down signal to lower the payload down. 26. The input device of claim 23, wherein the proportional control comprises a shaft to rotate a magnet in the vicinity of a hall effect sensor to create the output signal. 27. The input device of claim 23, further comprising a plurality of buttons configured to be assigned specific functions. 28. The input device of claim 27 wherein the specific functions comprise stop and reset. 29. The intelligent trolley of claim 1, wherein the common data link is a bus. 30. The intelligent trolley of claim 1, wherein the common data link is a wireless data link. 31. The intelligent lift module of claim 11, wherein the common data link is a bus. 32. The intelligent lift module of claim 11, wherein the common data link is a wireless data link. 33. The input device of claim 23, wherein the common data link is a bus. 34. The input device of claim 23, wherein the common data link is a wireless data link. 35. The intelligent trolley of claim 1, wherein the at least one other module comprises a lift. 36. The intelligent trolley of claim 1, wherein the at least one other module comprises a multi-function hub. 37. The intelligent lift module of claim 11, wherein the at least one other module comprises a trolley. 38. The intelligent lift module of claim 11, wherein the at least one other module composes a multi-function hub. 39. The input device of claim 23, wherein the at least one other module comprises a trolley. 40. The input device of claim 23, wherein the at least one other module comprises a lift. 