A system and method which provide a general-purpose pressure-fitting receptacle (or "clamp") suitable for coupling microcomponents are disclosed. A pressure-fitting receptacle is disclosed that is suitable for performing general assembly, including out-of-plane, 3-D assembly of microcomponents, wherein such microcomponents may be securely coupled together. That is, a pressure-fitting receptacle is disclosed which enables microcomponents to be coupled in a manner that constrains undesirable movement of the coupled components relative to each other. Preferably, such a receptacle may be pressure fit with a mating component (or a portion thereof) in a manner that constrains translational and rotational degrees of freedom of the mating component relative to the receptacle. A preferred embodiment provides a "preloaded" receptacle that may be utilized to perform general assembly of microcomponents. An alternative embodiment provides a non-preloaded receptacle suitable for performing general assembly of microcomponents. Still a further alternative embodiment provides an "expansion" receptacle that is suitable for performing general assembly of microcomponents. Such pressure-fitting receptacles may be implemented as an integrated part of a microcomponent, or they may be implemented as separate, stand-alone receptacles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pressure-fitting receptacle for coupling at least two microcomponents, comprising: at least one aperture; at least one engaging wall for engaging an insertion member of at least a first microcomponent inserted within said at least one aperture; said at least one engaging wall implemented to be pressure fit with said insertion member; and wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle is capable of engaging said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that constrains translational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said pressure-fitting receptacle in three dimensions and wherein said constraint of translational freedom is not solely frictional in any of said three dimensions. 2. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 1 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle has a size less than approximately two hundred microns by two hundred microns. 3. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 1 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle is capable of engaging said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that further constrains rotational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said pressure-fitting receptacle. 4. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 1 further comprising: at least one non-engaging aperture having inner sides against which a force may be applied for expanding said aperture to enable insertion of said insertion member within said aperture. 5. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 1 wherein said at least one engaging wall is movable relative to said at least one aperture, said pressure-fitting receptacle further comprising: at least one latch mechanism for latching said at least one engaging wall to a position for a desired coupling of said at least a first microcomponent. 6. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 5 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables said insertion member to penetrate said aperture without contacting the edges of said aperture. 7. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 5 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables said insertion member to penetrate said aperture with a minimal insertion force applied. 8. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 7 wherein said insertion force is a near-zero insertion force. 9. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 5 further comprising: at least one release mechanism for releasing said at least one engaging wall to enable said at least one engaging wall to clamp said insertion member to couple said pressure-fitting receptacle with said at least a first microcomponent. 10. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 9 wherein said at least one release mechanism is arranged to release said at least one engaging wall as said insertion member is moved in-plane within said aperture to apply a force against said at least one release mechanism. 11. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 9 wherein upon said release mechanism releasing said at least one engaging wall, said at least one engaging wall applies a force against said insertion member inserted within said aperture. 12. An apparatus for performing general assembly of two or more microcomponents, said apparatus comprising: at least one pressure-fitting receptacle for receiving all or a portion of at least a first microcomponent to couple said apparatus to said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus without relying solely on frictional forces for constraining any one of said three degrees of translational freedom. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said apparatus has a size of approximately one hundred microns by one hundred microns. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said apparatus is capable of engaging said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that further constrains rotational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said pressure fitting receptacle is implemented to receive an insertion member of said at least a first microcomponent. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: at least one non-engaging aperture having inner sides against which a force may be applied for expanding said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle to enable insertion of said all or a portion of said at least a first microcomponent within said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle further comprises: at least one engaging wall that at least partially encloses an aperture and is movable relative to said aperture; and at least one latch mechanism for latching said at least one engaging wall of said pressure-fitting receptacle to a position for a desired coupling of said at least a first microcomponent. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables said all or a portion of said at least a first microcomponent to penetrate said pressure-fitting receptacle without contacting the edges of said pressure-fitting receptacle. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables said all or a portion of said at least a first microcomponent to penetrate said pressure-fitting receptacle with a minimal insertion force applied. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said insertion force is a near-zero insertion force. 21. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising: at least one release mechanism for releasing said at least one engaging wall to enable said at least one engaging wall to clamp said all or a portion of said at least a first microcomponent to couple said pressure-fitting receptacle with said at least a first microcomponent. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said at least one release mechanism is arranged to release said at least one engaging wall as said all or a portion of said at least a first microcomponent is moved in-plane within said pressure-fitting receptacle to apply a force against said at least one release mechanism. 23. The pressure-fitting receptacle of claim 21 wherein upon said release mechanism releasing said at least one engaging wall, said at least one engaging wall applies a force against said all or a portion of said at least a first microcomponent inserted within said pressure-fitting receptacle. 24. A microcomponent comprising: a pressure-fitting receptacle for coupling with at least one other microcomponent in a manner that constrains at least three degrees of translational freedom of said at least one other microcomponent relative to said pressure-fitting receptacle, without relying solely on frictional forces for constraining any one of said at least three degrees of translational freedom. 25. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said microcomponent has a size no greater than approximately one centimeter by one centimeter. 26. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle has a size no greater than approximately two hundred microns by two hundred microns. 27. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle is a preloaded receptacle. 28. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle is an expansion receptacle. 29. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle is capable of engaging said at least one other microcomponent in a manner that further constrains rotational freedom of said at least one other microcomponent relative to said pressure-fitting receptacle. 30. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle further comprises at least one aperture at least partially enclosed by at least one engaging wall, said at least one aperture for receiving at least a portion said at least one other microcomponent. 31. The microcomponent of claim 30 wherein said at least one engaging wall applies pressure against said at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent inserted within said at least one aperture. 32. The microcomponent of claim 24 further comprising: at least one non-engaging aperture having inner sides against which a force may be applied for expanding said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle to enable insertion of at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent within said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle. 33. The microcomponent of claim 24 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle further comprises: at least one engaging wall that at least partially encloses an aperture and is movable relative to said aperture; and at least one latch mechanism for latching said at least one engaging wall of said pressure-fitting receptacle to a position for a desired coupling of said at least one other microcomponent. 34. The microcomponent of claim 33 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent to penetrate said pressure-fitting receptacle without contacting the edges of said pressure-fitting receptacle. 35. The microcomponent of claim 33 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent to penetrate said pressure-fitting receptacle with a minimal insertion force applied. 36. The microcomponent of claim 35 wherein said insertion force is a near-zero insertion force. 37. The microcomponent of claim 33 further comprising: at least one release mechanism for releasing said at least one engaging wall to enable said at least one engaging wall to clamp at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent to couple said pressure-fitting receptacle with said at least one other microcomponent. 38. The microcomponent of claim 37 wherein said at least one release mechanism is arranged to release said at least one engaging wall as said at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent is moved in-plane within said pressure-fitting receptacle to apply a force against said at least one release mechanism. 39. The microcomponent of claim 37 wherein upon said release mechanism releasing said at least one engaging wall, said at least one engaging wall applies a force against said at least a portion of said at least one other microcomponent inserted within said pressure-fitting receptacle. 40. An apparatus for coupling microcomponents, comprising: at least one pressure-fitting receptacle including at least one aperture that is at least partially enclosed by at least one movable engaging wall, wherein said at least one movable engaging wall is movable relative to said at least one aperture; at least one latch mechanism for latching said at least one engaging wall to a position for a desired coupling with at least a first microcomponent; and at least one release mechanism for releasing said at least one engaging wall operable after said at least one aperture is mated with said at least a first microcomponent. 41. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle has a size no greater than approximately two hundred microns by two hundred microns. 42. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables an insertion member of said at least a first microcomponent to penetrate said at least one aperture of said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle without contacting the edges of said at least one aperture. 43. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said position for a desired coupling is a position that enables an insertion member of said at least a first microcomponent to penetrate said at least one aperture of said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle with a minimal insertion force applied. 44. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said apparatus is capable of engaging said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus. 45. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said apparatus constrains rotational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus. 46. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein said at least one release mechanism is arranged to release said at least one engaging wall as said at least a first microcomponent is moved in-plane within said at least one aperture to apply a force against said at least one release mechanism. 47. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein upon said release mechanism releasing said at least one engaging wall, said at least one engaging wall applies a clamping force against at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent inserted within said at least one aperture. 48. An apparatus for coupling and decoupling microcomponents, comprising: at least one pressure-fitting receptacle including at least one aperture at least partially enclosed by at least one engaging member for applying a clamping force against at least a portion of at least a first microcomponent inserted within said at least one aperture to enable said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle to be pressure fit with said at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent to couple said apparatus with said at least a first microcomponent; and said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle further implemented to enable said at least one engaging member to be disengaged from said at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent to decouple said apparatus from said at least a first microcomponent. 49. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said pressure-fitting receptacle has a size of approximately one hundred microns by one hundred microns. 50. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said apparatus engages said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that constrains three degrees of translational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus. 51. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said apparatus engages said at least a first microcomponent in a manner that constrains rotational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus. 52. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said apparatus comprises at least one spring biased to cause said at least one engaging member to apply said clamping force against said at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent when said apparatus is coupled thereto to pressure fit said at least one pressure-fitting receptacle with said at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent. 53. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein said apparatus constrains said three degrees of translational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus without relying solely on frictional forces for constraining any one of said three degrees of translational freedom. 54. The apparatus of claim 50 wherein said apparatus constrains said three degrees of translational freedom of said at least a first microcomponent relative to said apparatus without relying solely on frictional forces for constraining any one of said three degrees of translational freedom. 55. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said clamping force comprises two substantially opposing forces applied against said at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent. 56. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein said at least one engaging member comprises a plurality of engaging members applying said clamping force, and wherein said clamping force comprises at least two substantially opposing forces applied against said at least a portion of said at least a first microcomponent. 