Surgical robots and other telepresence systems have enhanced grip actuation for manipulating tissues and objects with small sizes. A master/slave system is used in which an error signal or gain is artificially altered when grip members are near a closed configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: squeezing first and second grip members together with a hand of an operator; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the squeezing of the grip members according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship when the grip members are near a closed configuration; wherein the control relationship imposes a following force on the end effector elements with an actuator so that the following force varies in response to a misalignment between a grip separation and an end effector separation. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring the grip separation and measuring the end effector separation, and wherein the moving step comprises comparing the measured grip separation and the measured end effector separation to produce an error signal indicating the separation misalignment. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the moving step further comprises transmitting an actuator signal to the actuators in response to the error signal, and wherein the altering step increases the actuator signal when the grip members reach a predetermined transition point near the closed configuration. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the error signal increasing step alters the measured grip separation signal below a predetermined grip separation. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising resisting the squeezing of the grip members with a mechanical biasing mechanism when the grip separation is less than the predetermined grip separation so as to indicated to the operator the enhanced following force. 6. A method comprising: squeezing first and second grip members together with a hand of an operator; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the squeezing of the grip members according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship when the grip members are near a closed configuration, wherein the control relationship altering step is performed so that an actuator imposes a first following force when the grip members are away from the closed position and a difference between a first grip separation and a first end effector separation defines a first separation misalignment, and so that the actuator imposes a second following force when the grip member are adjacent the closed position with the first misalignment, the second following force being different than the first following force. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the control relationship altering step is performed by decreasing a measured grip separation signal to generate a desired end effector separation signal, and subtracting the desired end effector separation signal from a measured end effector separation signal. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the measured grip separation signal altering step is performed according to an invertible function of the measured grip separation signal. 9. A method comprising: squeezing first and second grip members together with a hand of an operator; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the squeezing of the grip members according to a control relationship; altering the control relationship when the grip members are near a closed configuration, detaching the end effector elements from a servomechanism and attaching alternative first and second end effector elements, the alternative end effector elements having different strengths than the end effector elements; and revising the control relationship altering step in response to the strengths of the alternative end effector elements. 10. A method comprising: squeezing first and second grip members together with a hand of an operator; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the squeezing of the grip members according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship when the grip members are near a closed configuration, wherein the end effector elements comprise cooperating surgical instrument jaws defining the closed configuration by engagement therebetween, and wherein the control relationship altering step comprises imposing a greater following force against an object for a given separation misalignment when the jaws are near the closed configuration so as to allow the jaws to impose a maximum following force with a small tissue therebetween. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the gripping step changes an angular separation between the grip members, and wherein moving step maintains a jaw angle substantially equal to the grip angle when the jaws are free to move. 12. A method comprising: squeezing first and second grip members together with a hand of an operator; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the squeezing of the grip members according to a control relationship; altering the control relationship when the grip members are near a closed configuration; and moving the end effector elements in a workspace with uniform following forces in response to movement of the grip elements in a plurality of degrees of freedom substantially throughout associated ranges of motion of the end effector. 13. A method comprising: squeezing first and second grip members together with a hand of an operator; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the squeezing of the grip members according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship when the grip members are near a closed configuration; and applying a feedback following force against the grip separation members in response to the separation misalignment. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the control relationship altering step is performed according to a continuous invertible function of the grip separation, and wherein the feedback applying step is performed according to another continuous invertible function. 15. A method of manipulating a surgical instrument comprising a first and second grip members, the method comprising: moving the first and second grip members towards each other; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the movement of the grip members according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship between the end effector elements and grip members when the grip members reach a predetermined separation, wherein altering the control relationship between the end effector elements and grip members comprises changing the one-to-one correspondence. 16. The method of claim 15 comprising supporting the surgical instrument with a robotic arm assembly. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein moving the first and second end effector elements in response to the movement of the grip members comprising moving the end effectors in a one-to-one correspondence to the movement of the grip members. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the end effector elements comprise jaws or forceps. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the end effector elements comprise scissors. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the end effector elements comprise clip appliers. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein the end effector elements comprise clamps. 22. A method of manipulating a surgical instrument comprising a first and second grip members, the method comprising: moving the first and second grip members towards each other; moving first and second end effector elements in response to the movement of the grip members according to a control relationship; and altering the control relationship between the end effector elements and grip members when the grip members reach a predetermined separation; wherein altering the control relationship between the end effector elements and grip comprises applying an altered gripping strength to the end effectors. 23. The method of claim 22 comprising providing tactile feedback to the grip members to indicate that the altered gripping strength is being applied. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the end effectors comprise jaws or forceps, wherein past the predetermined separation the end effectors apply a maximum gripping force to the jaws or forceps. 