The present invention discloses a system and method for confining a robot to a particular space. The system includes a portable barrier signal transmitter that produces a barrier signal primarily along an axis, and a mobile robot capable of avoiding the barrier signal upon detection of the barrier signal. In the preferred embodiment the barrier signal is emitted in an infrared frequency and the robot includes an omni-directional signal detector. Upon detection of the signal, the robot turns in a direction selected by a barrier avoidance algorithm until the barrier signal is no longer detected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot confinement system, comprising: (a) a transmitter that includes a signal emitter and a signal detector, the signal emitter being operative to broadcast a first beam and a second beam; (b) a retroreflector positioned and operative to reflect at least a portion of the first beam back to the transmitter; (c) the signal detector being operative to detect the reflected portion of the first beam, the reflected portion of the first beam between the signal emitter and the retroreflector defining a barrier for the robot confinement system; (d) the signal emitter being operative to broadcast the second beam when the signal detector fails to detect the reflected portion of the first beam; and (e) a mobile robot including (e1) means for moving the mobile robot to avoid the second beam, (e2) a detector operative to detect the second beam, and (e3) a control unit, operative in response to detection of the second beam, to run an algorithm for moving the mobile robot to avoid the second beam broadcast by the signal emitter; (f) wherein if operation of the mobile robot causes the reflected portion of the first beam to be blocked such that the signal detector fails to detect the reflected portion of the first beam, the transmitter signal emitter is operative to broadcast the second beam, which is detected by the mobile robot detector, causing the control unit to run the algorithm to move the mobile robot to avoid the second beam. 2. The robot confinement system of claim 1 wherein the algorithm implemented by the control unit of the mobile robot moves the mobile robot to turn in a chosen direction until the second beam is no longer detected by the mobile robot detector. 3. The robot confinement system of claim 1 wherein the algorithm implemented by the control unit of the mobile robot moves the mobile robot in a direction opposite to the most recently traveled direction until the second beam is no longer detected by the mobile robot detector. 