A system is provided for automatically dispensing prescriptions according to a patient's order. The system includes at least one line of machines that can automatically fill a patient's prescription order with countable oral solid medication under the control of an appropriate control system. The system includes containers provided to store the oral solid medication. One or more medication-containing containers are detachably coupled to a vibratory dispenser according to a patient's order. The vibratory dispenser automatically vibrates the container to dispense a predetermined amount of medication from the container into a vial according to the patient's order. Labeling and capping apparatus may be provided to apply a patient-specific label to the vial and to apply a cap or closure to the vial. Vials containing medication according to the patient's order may be collected in accumulation receptacles prior to delivery to a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for vibratory dispensing of plural types of solid medications comprising: a vibratory dispenser; a plurality of canisters each for selective engagement with the vibratory dispenser, each canister containing and dispensing one medication type and having a canister body comprising a bottom wall, at least one sidewall and inner and outer canister surfaces, the body defining a discharge opening through which the medication is dispensed from the canister and a further opening through which the medication is loaded into the canister; a quick coupling mechanism adapted to detachably couple each of the canisters to the vibratory dispenser in order to dispense medication therefrom and to rapidly decouple the coupled canister following dispensing so that one of the other canisters may be detachably coupled to the vibratory dispenser in place thereof, and a controller operatively controlling the vibratory dispenser, said controller causing the vibratory dispenser to vibrate the coupled canister such that the medication contained in the coupled canister is dispensed in a predetermined manner; whereby, the vibratory dispenser vibrates the canister when coupled thereto, said vibration causing medication contained in the coupled canister to be dispensed from the coupled canister through the discharge opening and into a vial. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each canister further includes medication separation structure positioned with respect to the canister inner surface, the separation structure having a first end for receiving the medication in the canister, a second end in communication with the discharge opening and a separation surface therebetween along which the medication is directed to the discharge opening. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the medication separation structure comprises: an upwardly sloping helical ramp positioned about the canister inner surface, said ramp having a lower end located along a bottom surface of the canister for receiving the medication in the canister and a ramp upper end; and a dispensing ramp having a first end in communication with the ramp upper end and a second end in communication with the discharge opening. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each canister further includes a stop positioned with respect to the discharge opening, the stop having a first position preventing medication from being dispensed through the discharge opening and a second position allowing medication to be dispensed through the discharge opening. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the quick coupling mechanism is a magnetic device adapted to permit the canister to be placed onto the vibratory dispenser and lifted from the vibratory dispenser. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the vibratory dispenser further comprises counting apparatus secured with respect to the vibratory dispenser, said counting apparatus counting medication dispensed from the canister. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the counting apparatus comprises a sensor that registers a medication count when the dispensed medication passes the sensor. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the medication count is cumulative. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the medication count is compared to a total count of medication to be dispensed. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: a time interval is required to dispense the total count of medication to be dispensed; the controller terminates vibratory dispenser vibration once an estimate of the time interval is reached; and upon termination of the vibratory dispenser vibration, if the comparison of the medication count to the total count of medication to be dispensed shows that less than the total count of medication to be dispensed has been dispensed, the controller causes the vibratory dispenser to provide at least one vibration to the canister to dispense medication sufficient to attain the total count of medication to be dispensed. 11. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the vibratory dispenser vibration has a frequency and the controller causes to the vibratory dispenser to adjust the frequency as the medication is dispensed from the canister to maintain a rate at which the medication is dispensed. 12. A method of dispensing solid medication comprising: selecting a canister from among a plurality of canisters, each of said canisters structured to contain and dispense a particular solid medication type; coupling the canister to the vibratory dispenser with a quick coupling apparatus, said quick coupling apparatus being structured to (1) detachably couple the canister to the vibratory dispenser for dispensing of the solid medication from the canister and (2) rapidly decouple the canister from the vibratory dispenser following dispensing of the solid medication from the canister; and vibrating the coupled canister with the vibratory dispenser to dispense the solid medication from the canister, said vibrating being controlled such that a predetermined amount of the solid medication is dispensed from the canister. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: moving at least a portion of the solid medication along a medication separation structure within the canister, said separation structure having a first end for receiving the solid medication in the canister, a second end in communication with the discharge opening and a separation surface therebetween along which the solid medication is directed to the discharge opening; and discharging the predetermined amount of solid medication through the discharge opening. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising opening the discharge opening by removing a stop obstructing the discharge opening. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the coupling step comprises magnetically coupling the canister to the vibratory dispenser. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising: obtaining a count for solid medication dispensed from the canister; comparing the count to a total count of solid medication to be dispensed, said total count representing the predetermined amount; and terminating the vibrating when the count is equal to the total count. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: determining a time required to dispense the total count; terminating vibrating upon reaching the time; and vibrating the canister to attain the total count if the comparison of the count to the total count indicates that less than the total count has been dispensed. 18. The method of claim 12 comprising: vibrating the canister at a vibration frequency; and adjusting the vibration frequency to maintain a dispensing rate as the solid medication is dispensed. 19. A method comprising: providing a plurality of canisters each for containing a solid medication type, each canister being structured for attachment to a vibratory dispenser and having a discharge opening for dispensing the solid medication; providing the vibratory dispenser, said vibratory dispenser being structured to vibrate a canister attached thereto, said vibration causing solid medication contained in the attached canister to be dispensed through the discharge opening; and providing a quick coupling mechanism structured for attaching any of the canisters to the vibratory dispenser and for rapidly detaching the coupled canister so that one of the other canisters may be attached to the vibratory dispenser in place thereof. 20. A system for vibratory dispensing of solid medication comprising: a plurality of canisters each for containing a solid medication type, each canister being structured for attachment to a vibratory dispenser and having a discharge opening for dispensing the solid medication; the vibratory dispenser being structured to vibrate a canister attached thereto, said vibration causing solid medication contained in the attached canister to be dispensed through the discharge opening; and a quick coupling mechanism structured for attaching any of the canisters to the vibratory dispenser and for rapidly detaching the coupled canister so that one of the other canisters may be attached to the vibratory dispenser in place thereof. 21. The system of claim 20 further comprising a controller operatively controlling the vibratory dispenser, said controller for causing the vibratory dispenser to vibrate an attached canister so that a predetermined amount of solid medication is dispensed. 22. The system of claim 20 wherein each canister further comprises: a body comprising a bottom wall, at least one sidewall and inner and outer surfaces; medication separation structure positioned with respect to the canister inner surface, the separation structure having a first end for receiving the solid medication in the canister, a second end in communication with the discharge opening and a separation surface therebetween along which the solid medication is directed to the discharge opening; and a stop having one position obstructing the discharge opening and a further position in which the discharge opening is unobstructed. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein the medication separation structure comprises: an upwardly sloping helical ramp positioned about the canister inner surface, said ramp having a lower end located along the canister bottom surface for receiving the solid medication and a ramp upper end; and a dispensing ramp having a first end in communication with the ramp upper end and a second end in communication with the discharge opening. 24. The system of claim 20 wherein the quick coupling mechanism comprises a magnetic device adapted to attach any of the canisters to the vibratory dispenser. 25. The system of claim 20 further comprising a counting mechanism secured with respect to the vibratory dispenser for counting each solid medication dispensed from the canister. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein the counting mechanism comprises a sensor that registers a medication count for each solid medication which passes the sensor. 27. The system of claim 20 wherein the controller adjusts a vibratory dispenser vibration frequency as solid medication is dispensed from the canister to regulate a rate at which the solid medication is dispensed. 