An integrated x-ray imaging detector assembly is provided for use in an x-ray imaging system. An x-ray detector module is supported by a frame and receives a beam of x-rays emitted from an x-ray source and passed through a target along a detector axis. The x-ray detector is further operable to produce electrical signals in response to the received beam of x-rays. A display terminal is supported by the frame and disposed behind the detector module with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel. The display terminal is configured to receive the electrical signals and produce an output image corresponding to the electrical signals.
Claims We claim: 1. An integrated x-ray imaging detector assembly for use in an x-ray imaging system, the detector assembly comprising: a support frame; an x-ray detector module supported by the frame and operable to receive a beam of x-rays emitted from an x-ray source and passed through a target along a detector axis, and further operable to produce electrical signals in response to the received beam of x-rays; and a display terminal supported by the frame and disposed behind the detector module with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel, the display terminal being configured to receive the electrical signals and produce an output image corresponding to the electrical signals. 2. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the display terminal is aligned with the beam of source x-rays. 3. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least one processing card supported by the frame and disposed behind the detector module with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel, wherein the processing card is operable to perform at least one of the steps of collecting data from the x-ray detector and providing an interface for a central controller. 4. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the display terminal is rotatable with respect to the support frame while maintaining registration between the image and the detector module. 5. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a first lead shield disposed between the x-ray detector and the display terminal and extending substantially parallel therewith. 6. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 5, further comprising a second lead shield extending outwardly from a distal end of the support frame. 7. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the display is a flat panel display. 8. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the display terminal is hingedly connected to the support frame and rotatable with respect to the x-ray detector module about one of two perpendicular axes. 9. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a touch screen panel providing for control functions of the x-ray system. 10. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 9, wherein the control functions are selected from the group consisting of: x-ray tube voltage and exposure time. 11. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 9, further comprising a multi-axis control handle providing motion signals in response to an external stimulus. 12. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 11, wherein the processing card provides and interface for a central controller with at least one of the touch screen panel and control handle. 13. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the processing card provides a multiplexed signal collecting data from the x-ray detector for a central controller. 14. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the support frame is supported by an articulated arm that has at least two independent axes of motion with respect to the target. 15. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the detector module receives a collimated x-ray beam from the x-ray source. 16. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the image is viewable while the display terminal extends normally with respect to the detector axis and is aligned with the detector module. 17. A method of operating an x-ray imaging system having an x-ray source positioned at one side of a target, and an x-ray detection assembly positioned at another side of the target, the x-ray detection assembly including a support frame, an x-ray detector module supported by the frame, and a display terminal supported by the frame and disposed behind the detector module with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel, the steps comprising: A) emitting an x-ray beam from the source through the target; B) receiving the x-ray beam at the detector; C) producing electrical signals at the detector module in response to the received beam of x-rays and transmitting the electrical signals to a display terminal; and D) producing an output image at the display terminal, wherein the output image corresponds to the electrical signals. 18. The method as recited in claim 17, further comprising rotating the display terminal with respect to the detector module while maintaining registration between the output image and detector module. 19. The method as recited in claim 17, further comprising providing a shield to the x-ray beams at a position located downstream of the detector with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel. 20. The method as recited in claim 17, further comprising actuating a touch screen panel to provide control of the x-ray imaging system. 21. The method as recited in claim 17, further comprising actuating a control handle to alter the position of the detector assembly. 