A method of preparing a vehicle panel assembly for attaching the panel to a vehicle is disclosed which provides a "ready-to-install" panel assembly. The panel assembly includes first and second spaced sides, with the bead of heat activated adhesive provided on the second side of the panel. The panel and bead are heated preferably by applying shortwave and longwave infrared radiation, with the shortwave infrared radiation being applied to an adhesive free side of the panel to heat the panel and, thereby, indirectly heat the bead of the heat activated adhesive. The longwave infrared radiation is applied to the adhesive side of the panel to directly heat the bead and thereby activate the adhesive. The ready-to-install adhesive may be applied on or adjacent to a gasket, such as a polyvinyl chloride (PVC) molding, a urethane molding, or the like. Optionally, either during or after heating, the substrate is cooled in order to ease handling of the panel assembly after the bead of adhesive is activate and ready for installation.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive for attaching a vehicle window panel to a vehicle, the vehicle window panel having first and second opposed and spaced apart surfaces and a bead of heat activated adhesive on the second surface, said apparatus comprising: a first heating component comprising a source of shortwave infrared radiation for heating the first surface of the vehicle window panel for indirectly heating the bead of adhesive; and a second heating component comprising a source of longwave radiation for directly heating the bead of adhesive, the heat being localized on the bead of adhesive. 2. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said first and second heating components are adapted to heat the vehicle window panel while the vehicle window panel is supported on a conveyor. 3. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said first heating component includes at least one lamp, said lamp emitting said shortwave radiation for heating the first surface of the vehicle window panel and indirectly heating the bead of heat activated adhesive. 4. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 3, wherein said lamp comprises a quartz lamp having a tungsten filament for generating said shortwave infrared radiation. 5. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 3, wherein said first heating component includes a plurality of said lamps. 6. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 5, wherein the vehicle window panel is curved and has a contour, said plurality of lamps being adapted to generally follow the contour of the vehicle window panel. 7. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 6, wherein said lamps are arranged for directing the shortwave infrared radiation substantially perpendicular to the first surface of the vehicle window panel. 8. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said second heating component includes a fused quartz emitter for emitting longwave radiation. 9. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 8, wherein said fused quartz emitter includes a fused quartz substrate and an electrical element embedded in said fused quartz substrate for emitting longwave radiation. 10. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said second heating component comprises a plurality of heater sections, and said heater sections being arranged to align with the bead on the vehicle window panel. 11. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 10, wherein said heater sections are arranged to define a perimeter heater for aligning with and for heating a bead of adhesive positioned on a perimeter portion of the vehicle window panel. 12. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said first heating component emits shortwave infrared radiation having a peak emission less than 2.5 micron. 13. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 12, wherein said first heating component emits shortwave infrared radiation having a peak emission in a range of 0.6 to 2.5 microns. 14. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 13, wherein said first heating component emits shortwave infrared radiation having a peak emission less than 1.0 micron. 15. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said second heating component emits longwave infrared radiation having a peak emission greater than 2.5 microns. 16. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 15, wherein said second heating component emits longwave infrared radiation having a peak emission in a range of 2.5 to 8.0 microns. 17. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said first heating component and said second heating component are adapted to heat the bead to at least an activation temperature. 18. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 17, wherein said first heating component and said second heating component are adapted to heat the central core portion of the bead to a temperature in a range of 50.degree. C. to 160.degree. C. 19. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 17, wherein said first heating component and said second heating component are adapted to the central core portion of the bead to a temperature in a range of 70.degree. C. to 120.degree. C. 20. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 17, wherein said first heating component and said second heating component are adapted to heat the central core portion of the bead to a temperature in a range of 80.degree. C. to 110.degree. C. 21. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said second heating component emits hot air, said hot air for applying onto the second surface of the vehicle window panel and for heating the bead. 22. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus comprises a first stage heating apparatus of a multi-stage heating apparatus. 23. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 1, wherein said multi-stage heating apparatus includes four of said heating apparatuses, said four heating apparatuses defining said first stage heating apparatus and successive second, third, and fourth stage heating apparatuses. 24. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 23, wherein said first, second, third, and fourth stage heating apparatuses are aligned for heating a vehicle window panel in four successive stages while being supported on a conveyor. 25. An apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive for attaching a vehicle window panel to a vehicle, the vehicle window panel having first and second opposed and spaced apart surfaces and a bead of heat activated adhesive on the second surface, the vehicle window panel being supported on a conveyor, and the conveyor conveying the vehicle window panel between a plurality of heating stages, said apparatus comprising: a first heater having a first heating component and a second heating component, said first heater being adapted to heat the vehicle window panel during a first heating stage of the heating stages; a second heater having a third heating component and a fourth heating component, said second heater being adapted to heat the vehicle window panel during a second heating stage of the heating stages; and said first heating component and said third heating component each having a source of shortwave infrared radiation and being adapted to heat the first surface for indirectly heating the bead of adhesive, and at least one of said second heating component and said fourth heating component comprising a source of longwave infrared radiation and being adapted to apply the longwave infrared radiation onto the second surface of the vehicle window panel to directly heat the bead. 26. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein at least of said first heating component and said third heating component includes at least one lamp, said at least one lamp emitting said shortwave radiation for heating a portion of the first surface of the vehicle window panel aligned with the bead and thereby indirectly heating the bead of heat activated adhesive. 27. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 26, wherein said at least one lamp comprises a quartz lamp having a tungsten filament for generating said shortwave infrared radiation. 28. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein said at least one of said second heating component and said fourth heating component includes a fused quartz emitter emitting longwave radiation. 29. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein said at least one of said second heating component and said fourth heating component comprises a perimeter heating component for directing heat to a bead of adhesive positioned on a perimeter portion of the vehicle window panel. 30. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein said first heater and said second heater are aligned for positioning along the conveyor and for heating the vehicle window panel while supported on the conveyor. 31. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein at least one of said first heating component and said third heating component is adapted to move from a heating position for heating the vehicle window panel and the bead to a holding position. 32. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein at least one of said second heating component and said fourth heating component emits hot air, said hot air being directed for directly heating the bead on the vehicle window panel. 33. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein each of said first heating component and said third heating component supports a heat localizer, each of said heat localizers having an opening, said openings being adapted to localize said shortwave infrared radiation onto a portion of the first surface of the vehicle window panel aligned with the bead for heating that portion of the vehicle window panel to indirectly heat the bead of adhesive. 34. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, further comprising third and fourth heaters, said third and fourth heaters defining third and fourth heating stages, and each of said third and fourth heaters including a shortwave infrared radiation source for heating the vehicle window panel and indirectly heating the bead and a longwave infrared radiation source for heating the bead. 35. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 25, wherein at least one of said first heating component and second heating component includes a heat localizer interposed between the respective heating component and the vehicle window panel. 36. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 35, wherein said heat localizer comprises a heat directer. 37. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 35, wherein said heat localizer comprises a shield. 38. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 37, wherein said shield comprises an insulated panel. 39. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 38, wherein said insulated panel comprises at least two insulated panel members, said insulated panel members including one of a gaseous gap or an insulating material inserted therebetween. 40. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 39, wherein said gaseous gap includes one of air and an inert gas. 41. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 40, wherein said inert gas comprises at least one of argon and nitrogen. 42. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 39, wherein said insulation material comprises at least one of a fiberglass and a xerogel. 43. The apparatus for activating a heat activated adhesive according to claim 35, wherein said heat localizer comprises a gradient heat shield having a gradient in its thermal transmission property. 44. An apparatus for activating a bead of heat activated adhesive on a vehicle window panel assembly for attaching the window panel assembly to a vehicle, the vehicle window panel assembly including a substrate having first and second opposed and spaced surfaces, the bead of heal activated adhesive provided on the second surface of the substrate and including a central core portion, an outer skin portion, and an interface portion on the second surface of the substrate, said apparatus comprising: a first heating component comprising a source of shortwave infrared radiation to heat the first surface of the substrate whereby die substrate heats the interface portion of the bead; and a second heating component comprises a source of longwave infrared radiation to heat the outer skin portion of the bead to thereby heat the central core portion of the head and to activate the heat activated adhesive. 45. The apparatus according to claim 44, further comprising at least one heat localizer, said heat localizer directing heat from one of said first and second heating components onto one of said first surface of the substrate and the outer skin portion of the bead of adhesive. 46. The apparatus according to claim 45, wherein said heat localizer directs heat from said first heating component to the first surface of the vehicle window panel. 47. The apparatus according to claim 46, wherein the substrate has a peripheral portion, the vehicle window panel assembly having a polymeric gasket formed on at least a portion of the peripheral portion, and said heat localizer directing heat from the first heating component onto the substrate adjacent the gasket. 48. The apparatus according to claim 45, further comprising a cooling component, said cooling component cooling at least a portion of said panel assembly to cool the substrate to permit handling of the vehicle window panel assembly. 49. The apparatus according to claim 48, wherein said cooling component is adapted to direct a gaseous stream to said portion of the substrate to cool a substrate. 50. The apparatus according to claim 49, wherein said cooling component directs at least one of air and an inert gas onto the portion of the substrate to thereby cool the substrate. 51. The apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said first heating component includes at least one lamp, said lamp emitting said shortwave radiation for heating the first surface of the substrate. 52. The apparatus according to claim 51, wherein said lamp comprises a quartz lamp having a tungsten filament for generating said shortwave infrared radiation. 53. The apparatus according to claim 51, wherein said first heating component includes a plurality of said lamp. 54. The apparatus according to claim 45, wherein said apparatus comprises a stage heating apparatus of a multi-stage heating apparatus. 55. The apparatus according to claim 45, wherein said apparatus comprises a stage heating apparatus of a multi-stage heating apparatus comprising four of said heating apparatus. 56. The apparatus according to claim 55, further comprising a conveyor, said conveyor supporting the vehicle window panel assembly and transporting the vehicle window panel assembly through said stage heating apparatuses. 