A magnetic multi-layer film manufacturing apparatus has a transferring chamber, a plurality of film-depositing chambers, and a robotic transferring device. Each film-depositing chamber has a rotatable substrate holder, a plurality of targets positioned at an incline on an opposing interior surface from the substrate holder, and a double layer rotating shutter mechanism and is controllable to deposit at least one layer of a magnetic multi-layer film structure. Magnetic multi-layer film structures are formed by depositing a plurality of magnetic films divided into a plurality of groups, each one of the plurality of groups deposited in an associated one of the plurality of film-depositing chambers continuously in a laminated state. A first division between successive groups of magnetic films is between a metal oxide film and a magnetic layer continuous therewith and a second division is between an antiferromagnetic layer and a magnetic layer continuous therewith.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: positioning a substrate into a first film deposition chamber from a carrying chamber in operational communication therewith; depositing a first magnetic film group, the first magnetic film group comprising a first plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the substrate continuously in a laminated state to form a magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the first film deposition chamber; positioning the magnetic multi-layer film into at least a second film deposition chamber; and depositing a second magnetic film group, the second magnetic film group comprising a second plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the magnetic multi-layer film continuously in a laminated state to form a stacked magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the second film deposition chamber; further comprising selecting a division between one of the magnetic film groups and another of the magnetic film groups, the division selected to be between a metal oxide film of the one of the magnetic film groups and a magnetic layer of the another of the magnetic film groups adjacent therewith. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: positioning the substrate in a cleaning chamber from the carrying chamber in operational communication therewith; and cleaning the substrate by an etching or a sputtering technique. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising depositing at least one non-magnetic film in at least one of the groups. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the non-magnetic film is an oxide film or a nano-oxide layer. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein depositing is by a physical vapor deposition technique or a RF sputtering technique. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the stacked magnetic multi-layer film structure is a MRAM, a TMR head, or a GMR structure. 7. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: positioning a substrate into a first film deposition chamber from a carrying chamber in operational communication therewith; depositing a first magnetic film group, the first magnetic film group comprising a first plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the substrate continuously in a laminated state to form a magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the first film deposition chamber; positioning the magnetic multi-layer film into at least a second film deposition chamber; and depositing a second magnetic film group, the second magnetic film group comprising a second plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the magnetic multi-layer film continuously in a laminated state to form a stacked magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the second film deposition chamber; wherein within any one of the magnetic film groups, an antiferromagnetic layer is deposited adjacent a magnetic layer continuously within any one of the film deposition chambers. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the magnetic layer is on the antiferromagnetic layer. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein within any one of the magnetic film groups, the magnetic layer is deposited on one side of the antiferromagnetic layer and another layer is deposited on another side of the antiferromagnetic layer continuously within any one of the film deposition chambers. 10. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: positioning a substrate into a first film deposition chamber from a carrying chamber in operational communication therewith; depositing a first magnetic film group, the first magnetic film group comprising a first plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the substrate continuously in a laminated state to form a magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the first film deposition chamber; positioning the magnetic multi-layer film into at least a second film deposition chamber; and depositing a second magnetic film group. the second magnetic film group comprising a second plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the magnetic multi-layer film continuously in a laminated state to form a stacked magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the second film deposition chamber; positioning the magnetic multi-layer film or stacked magnetic multi-layer film in an oxidizing chamber from the carrying chamber in operational communication therewith; and oxidizing a metal layer. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the metal layer is between any successive magnetic film groups. 12. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: positioning a substrate into a first film deposition chamber from a carrying chamber in operational communication therewith; depositing a first magnetic film group, the first magnetic film group comprising a first plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the substrate continuously in a laminated state to form a magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the first film deposition chamber; positioning the magnetic multi-layer film into at least a second film deposition chamber; and depositing a second magnetic film group, the second magnetic film group comprising a second plurality of magnetic layers, each magnetic layer deposited successively on the magnetic multi-layer film continuously in a laminated state to form a stacked magnetic multi-layer film while the substrate is in the second film deposition chamber; wherein the stacked magnetic multi-layer film structure has a MR ratio of at least 7%. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the stacked magnetic multi-layer film structure has a MR ratio of at least about 7.5 %. 14. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: introducing a substrate into a carrying chamber having a plurality of deposition chambers in operational communication therewith and a manipulating device; operating the manipulating device to place the substrate in a cleaning chamber; cleaning the substrate by an etching or a sputtering technique; operating the manipulating device to successively place the substrate in each of the plurality of deposition chambers in a predetermined sequence; and depositing a plurality of magnetic film groups to form a magnetic multi-layer film, the plurality of magnetic film groups comprising a plurality of magnetic film layers, each one of the plurality of magnetic film groups continuously deposited in a laminated state in a respective one of the plurality of deposition chambers; wherein the last of the plurality of magnetic film layers of one of the plurality of magnetic film groups comprises a metal oxide layer, and a first of the plurality of magnetic film layers of another of the plurality of magnetic film groups comprises a magnetic layer, the metal oxide layer and the magnetic layer deposited adjacent each other in different deposition chambers. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein depositing is by a physical vapor deposition technique or a RF sputtering technique. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of magnetic films form a MRAM, a TMR head, or a GMR structure. 17. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: introducing a substrate into a carrying chamber having a plurality of deposition chambers in operational communication therewith and a manipulating device; operating the manipulating device to place the substrate in a cleaning chamber; cleaning the substrate by an etching or a sputtering technique; operating the manipulating device to successively place the substrate in each of the plurality of deposition chambers in a predetermined sequence; depositing a plurality of magnetic film groups to form a magnetic multi-layer film, the plurality of magnetic film groups comprising a plurality of magnetic film layers, each one of the plurality of magnetic film groups continuously deposited in a laminated state in a respective one of the plurality of deposition chambers; and oxidizing a metal layer between successive divisions. 18. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: introducing a substrate into a carrying chamber having a plurality of deposition chambers in operational communication therewith and a manipulating device; operating the manipulating device to place the substrate in a cleaning chamber; cleaning the substrate by an etching or a sputtering technique; operating the manipulating device to successively place the substrate in each of the plurality of deposition chambers in a predetermined sequence; depositing a plurality of magnetic film groups to form a magnetic multi-layer film, the plurality of magnetic film groups comprising a plurality of magnetic film layers, each one of the plurality of magnetic film groups continuously deposited in a laminated state in a respective one of the plurality of deposition chambers; and depositing at least one non-magnetic film in at least one of the plurality of groups. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the non-magnetic film is an oxide film or a nano-oxide layer. 20. A method of forming a magnetic multi-layer film, the method comprising: introducing a substrate into a carrying chamber having a plurality of deposition chambers in operational communication therewith and a manipulating device; operating the manipulating device to place the substrate in a cleaning chamber; cleaning the substrate by an etching or a sputtering technique; operating the manipulating device to successively place the substrate in each of the plurality of deposition chambers in a predetermined sequence; depositing a plurality of magnetic film groups to form a magnetic multi-layer film, the plurality of magnetic film groups comprising a plurality of magnetic film layers, each one of the plurality of magnetic film groups continuously deposited in a laminated state in a respective one of the plurality of deposition chambers; and wherein the magnetic multi-layer film structure has a MR ratio of at least 7%. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the magnetic multi-layer film structure has a MR ratio of at least about 7.5%. 22. A magnetic multi-layer film manufacturing apparatus, comprising: a transferring chamber; a plurality of film-depositing chambers in operative communication with the transferring chamber, each film-depositing chamber comprising a rotatable substrate holder, a plurality of targets, and a double layer rotating shutter mechanism disposed between the rotatable substrate holder and the plurality of targets, each film-depositing chamber controllable to deposit at least one layer of a magnetic multi-layer film structure; and a robotic transferring device disposed in the transferring chamber, the robotic transferring device rotatable about a central location and freely stretchable. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the substrate holder has a ring shaped magnet disposed on a perimeter thereof. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the plurality of targets are positioned at an incline on an opposing interior surface from the substrate holder. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the double layer rotating shutter mechanism comprises a first and second shutter plate, each shutter plate separately rotatable about an axis, the first shutter plate having at least two openings therein aligned radially and the second shutter plate having one opening therein. 26. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein a distal end of the robotic transferring device extends to at least a position within each of the film depositing chambers corresponding to the substrate holder. 27. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising at least one load/unload chamber in operational communication with the central transferring chamber. 28. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the plurality of film-depositing chambers in operative communication with the transferring chamber are disposed on the perimeter of the transferring chamber. 29. A deposition apparatus, comprising: a chamber comprising a housing for a target on a first surface; and a shutter mechanism, the shutter mechanism comprising a first platen having at least two openings therein and a second platen having an opening therein, wherein the first platen and second platen are arranged substantially coaxial and are each freely and independently rotatable about an axis within the chamber such that the opening in the first platen and the opening in the second platen are substantially longitudinally aligned with respect to a center axis of the housing for a target. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the first platen is arranged proximal to the housing for a target. 31. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the second platen is arranged proximal to the housing for a target. 32. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the first platen has two openings therein. 33. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the opening on the second platen has a geometric form that corresponds in size and shape to the housing for a target. 34. A method of depositing material from a plurality of targets in a chamber, the method comprising: rotating a first platen having one opening to align the one opening with a first of a plurality of targets; rotating a second platen having at least two openings therein so that none of the openings are aligned with the first of the plurality of targets; sputtering the first of the plurality of targets for a predetermined time; rotating the second platen to align one of the at least two openings with the first target; and depositing material from the first of the plurality of targets onto a substrate. 35. The method of claim 34, further comprising: rotating the second platen so that none of the at least two openings are aligned with the first of the plurality of targets and a second of a plurality of targets; rotating the first platen to align the one opening with the second of a plurality of targets; sputtering the second of the plurality of targets for a predetermined time; rotating the second platen to align one of the at least two openings with the second target; and depositing material from the second of the plurality of targets onto a substrate. 36. The method of claim 34, further comprising rotating the substrate during the depositing. 37. A method of depositing material onto a substrate from a plurality of targets in a chamber that includes two rotatable platens arranged between the substrate and the plurality of targets, wherein a first of the two platens includes one opening therein and a second of the two platens includes at least two openings therein, the method comprising: rotating the second of the two platens so that none of the openings are aligned with a first of the plurality of targets; presputtering the first of the plurality of targets for a predetermined time with the second of the two platens arranged such that none of the openings are aligned with the first target; rotating the second of the two platens to align one of the at least two openings with the first target; and sputtering the first target while the one of the at least two openings of the second of the two platens is aligned with the first target and while the first of the two platens is aligned such that the one opening of the first of the two platens is also aligned with the first target so as to deposit material from the first of the plurality of targets onto the substrate. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the opening of the first platen is aligned with the first target during the presputtering. 