The system constructed according to the present invention operates by properly positioning a base compact disc (CD) onto a cutting table and then cutting the CD to a preprogrammed shape. Base CDs are stacked on an elevator system. The CDs include one side on which data is recorded, and another side on which the CD label is printed. A robotic arm with a vacuum gripper then picks-up a CD from the stack and moves the CD to a cutting table. While the arm moves the CD, a machine vision system takes a picture of the CD label and compares the picture to an image of the label stored in data. An image mapping program then determines the rotational orientation of the CD by comparing the picture and data image. Once the orientation of the disc is known, the robot arm rotates the disc a calculated amount so that it can then be placed on the cutting table in a proper normalized orientation. The CD is held in place on the cutting table by a vacuum chucking system. A routing tool then plunges through the CD and cuts an edge of a desired shape. Once cutting is complete, a second robotic arm with vacuum grippers picks up the shaped CD and associated single scrap piece. The shaped CD portion is placed on a vertical mandrel and the scrap piece is discarded in a bulk bin. The completed system is intended to have four (4) independent machine vision systems and routing stations so that four CDs can be shaped at the same time.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for shaping a compact disc having a preprinted image formed on a side thereof, comprising: stacking means for mounting a plurality of compact discs thereon, each of said compact discs capable of being mounted on said stacking means with an angular deviation from a desired rotational position; a camera positioned over the stacking means for taking a picture of the image preprinted on a top one of the compact discs mounted on the stacking means; means for calculating from the picture taken by the camera the angular deviation of the top the desired rotational position and rotating the disc by the angular deviation; a cutting table having a support surface for holding a disc placed thereon in the desired rotational position, said cutting table including a cutting tool positioned above the support surface; and means for transferring the top disc from the stacking means to the cutting table in the desired rotational position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, the support surface of the cutting table including: a lower plenum in communication with a vacuum source; a resilient layer positioned over the lower plenum, said resilient layer including means for communicating vacuum to a top surface of the resilient layer. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, the lower plenum including two openings in communication with the vacuum source for holding two compact discs. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, said cutting table including a plurality of cutting positions on the support surface and a plurality of respective cutting tools positioned over the cutting positions, wherein the cutting tools are coupled to a common frame for simultaneous and identical shaping of the plurality of compact discs supported on the cutting table at the cutting positions. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting tool includes a router bit selected from the group consisting of a single flute straight, a double flute straight, and an upcut single flute spiral. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the router is spun at rotational speeds between about 20,000 and 30,000 rpm. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stacking means includes: an elevator mechanism; a lifting fork; and a center mandrel on which the compact discs are mounted. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further including an unload unit having a vacuum gripper with two distinct suction sections for independent pick-up and release of the shaped compact disc and its associated scrap material. 9. A method of shaping a compact disc, the method comprising: detecting pre-printed image on a surface of the compact disc, wherein detecting the pre-printed image comprises obtaining a video image of the surface of the compact disc with a camera, and analyzing the image obtained from the camera; rotating the compact disc to align the pre-printed image with a pre-determined location; and placing the compact disc into a shaping apparatus for shaping of the compact disc, wherein the shaping is performed after the compact disc is in the pre-determined location. 10. A method of shaping a compact disc, the method comprising: detecting pre-printed image on a surface of the compact disc; rotating the compact disc to align the pre-printed image with a pre-determined location; and placing the compact disc into a shaping apparatus for shaping of the compact disc, wherein the shaping is performed after the compact disc is in the pre-determined location and further includes the steps of: placing the compact disc on a resilient surface; and applying vacuum pressure through the resilient surface to the compact disc so that the compact disc is held to the resilient surface. 11. A method of shaping a compact disc, the method comprising: detecting pre-printed image on a surface of the compact disc; rotating the compact disc to align the pre-printed image with a pre-determined location; and placing the compact disc into a shaping apparatus for shaping of the compact disc, wherein the shaping is performed after the compact disc is in the pre-determined location, wherein the compact disc is rotated while the compact disc is engaged by a handling device. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein detecting the pre-printed image on the surface of the compact disc is performed with a sensor. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the pre-printed image includes an index mark. 14. The method of claims 13 wherein the index mark is located on the surface of the compact disc at a pre-determined radial position. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the sensor is an optical sensor positioned to detect the pre-printed image or index mark located on the compact disc. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the sensor is an optical sensor that detects light reflected off of a surface of the compact disc. 17. The method of claim 11, further comprising sending a motion command to the handling device responsive to the analyzing step. 18. The method of claim 10, further comprising shaping the compact disc by plunging a routing tool through the compact disc and into the resilient surface and cutting an edge of a desired shape to result in the shaped disc and a scrap piece. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: simultaneously moving the shaped disc and scrap piece from the shaping apparatus; stacking the shaped disc on a vertical mandrel; and discarding the scrap piece in a bulk bin. 