The invention describes a method of positioning a welding torch (10) and a welding wire (13) at the center of a seam (32). The welding torch (10) is positioned by means of a robot arm on a predetermined or programmed position between two seam edges (34, 35), after which an alignment process is run whereby the robot arm moves the welding torch (10) in one direction until a short circuit occurs between the welding torch (10) or the welding wire (13) and a seam edge (34, 35) of the workpiece (16), and the welding torch (10) is then displaced in the opposite direction by the robot arm until another short circuit occurs between the welding torch (10) or the welding wire (13) and another side seam edge (34, 35) of the workpiece (16). A control system (4) then evaluates the displacement path in order to calculate a seam center, on which the welding torch (10) is positioned. No additional hardware components are needed in order to implement the method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Method of positioning a welding torch and a welding wire of a welding device at the center of a desired path of a welding seam, in which the welding torch is positioned by means of a robot arm on a predetermined or programmed position between two seam edges of a workpiece, and an alignment process is run whereby the robot arm moves the welding torch in one direction until a short circuit occurs between the welding torch or the welding wire and one of the seam edges, and the welding torch is then displaced by the robot arm in the opposite direction until another short circuit occurs between the welding torch or the welding wire and the other one of the seam edges but no arc is ignited between the welding torch or welding wire and the workpiece when a short circuit occurs, after which a control system evaluates the displacement path in order to calculate the seam center on which the welding torch or welding wire is positioned by the robot arm, wherein the welding device uses a single current source having a power component supplying power for the welding process and the alignment process; by selecting a "Find position" function, the control system reduces the power output of the power component to the degree that a change in resistance is detected on the basis of the power applied to output terminals of the power component when a short circuit occurs and, to detect the short circuit, discharge capacitors between the output terminals are loaded by an output power of the power component with a low capacity so that ignition of an arc is prevented when a short circuit occurs. 2. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the power component supplies only a low power for keeping the discharge capacitors charged. 3. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein by setting the "Find position" function, the control system activates the power component in such a way that the power component supplies sufficient output power on a secondary side to compensate for the lost power of the components of the secondary side and additionally a slight charge is applied to the suppression and/or discharge capacitors. 4. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein when the alignment process has been completed by the control system, the power output of the power component is duly increased in order to generate a high output power and hence supply the energy for the welding process and to ignite the arc. 5. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein when the alignment process has been run, the power component is activated by the control system with welding parameters previously entered by the user. 6. Method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a two-way data exchange is operated between the control system and a robot arm controller via a line connection. 7. Method of detecting a short circuit between a welding wire and a workpiece on completion of a welding process, a no-load voltage being applied to the welding wire, which breaks down in case of a short circuit, and the break down being detected by a control system, wherein the welding device used uses a single current source having a power component supplying power for the welding process and for detecting a short circuit on completion of the welding process, the power component is activated by the control system on completion of the welding process and after a predeterminable time has elapsed so that, when the short circuit is detected between the welding wire and the workpiece, a minimal output power is supplied or the power component is switched off, thereby preventing ignition of an arc and, to detect the short circuit, discharge capacitors between the output terminals are loaded by an output power of the power component with a low capacity so that ignition of an arc is prevented when a short circuit occurs. 8. Method as claimed in claim 7, wherein, if a short circuit is detected after a predeterminable time has elapsed, an increased current is delivered in order to resolve the short circuit or an error indication o signal is sent from the welding device (1) to a robot controller of the welding device. 9. A welding device comprising a welding torch and a welding wire, a robot arm carrying the welding torch for positioning the welding torch and welding wire on a predetermined or programmed position between two seam edges of a workpiece in an alignment process in which the robot arm moves the welding torch in one direction until a short circuit occurs between the welding torch or the welding wire and one of the seam edges, and the welding torch is then displaced by the robot arm in the opposite direction until another short circuit occurs between the welding torch or the welding wire and the other one of the seam edges but no arc is ignited between the welding torch or welding wire and the workpiece when a short circuit occurs; a single current source having a power component supplying power for the welding process and the alignment process; a controllable "Find position" function controlling the power component with a minimal output power when a short circuit occurs and ignition of an arc is prevented; and, to detect the short circuit, discharge capacitors connected to output terminals of the power component at a secondary side of the current source, the discharge capacitors being loadable by an output power of the power component with a low capacity whereby ignition of an arc is prevented when a short circuit occurs. 