An apparatus and method are provided for contacting at least two chemical species, comprising a support plate having a channel for receiving a mobile chemical species and a fiber, having a second chemical species immobilized thereon, disposed on the support plate. At least a portion of the fiber is exposed to the channel such that the mobile chemical species is capable of contacting the second chemical species. An apparatus and method for reading the fiber array, an apparatus and method for making the fiber array, and methods of using the fiber array of the present invention are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for making a microchip having a plurality of contact points, comprising: immobilizing each of a plurality of known chemical species on a separate fiber; and placing each of said fibers on a support having a plurality of parallel and fluidly independent channels for receiving an analyte, wherein said plurality of fibers are arranged in parallel on said support and substantially normal to said plurality of channels, thereby forming a matrix of contact positions between a portion of each of said fibers and each of said plurality of channels, such that each of said fibers is contacted by said analyte. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of known chemical species are polynucleotide probes. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said fibers are optical fibers. 4. A method for making a microchip having a plurality of contact points, comprising: providing a support having a plurality of substantially parallel and fluidly independent channels configured to receive an analyte therein; immobilizing a first chemical species on a first fiber; immobilizing a second chemical species on a second fiber; and placing said first and second fibers on said support substantially parallel to each other and substantially perpendicular to said channels, thereby forming a matrix of contact positions between portions of each of said first and second fibers and each of said channels. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said first and second chemical species are polynucleotide probes. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said first and second fibers are optical fibers. 7. A method for synthesizing a chemical species on a optical fiber comprising the steps of: determining an order for depositing a plurality of chemical species precursors on a optical fiber; sequentially transporting said fiber into proximity with each of said plurality of chemical species precursors, in accordance with said order; and sequentially depositing each of said plurality of chemical species precursors on said fiber in said order to synthesize a predetermined chemical species on said fiber. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said method further comprises the step of contacting said fiber with a preparatory solution. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein said method further comprises the step of contacting said fiber with a post depositing solution. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein said method further comprises synthesizing an oligonucleotide on the fiber. 11. A method according to claim 7, wherein said method further comprises the steps of: applying a detritylation chemical to the fiber; binding a base chemical to the fiber; coating the fiber with an activation chemical; covering the fiber with a caping agent; washing the fiber with a solvent; discharging a oxidizer onto the fiber; and cleansing the fiber with a solvent. 12. A method according to claim 7, further comprising the step of removing deprotection groups from the fiber. 13. A method according to claim 7, further comprising the step of extracting part of the predetermined chemical species from the fiber. 14. A method according to claim 13, further comprising the step of analyzing said extracted part of said chemical compound. 15. A method according to claim 7, further comprising the step, prior to said determining step, of dispensing a optical fiber from a spool. 16. A method according to claim 7, further comprising the step, prior to said determining step, of arranging the fibers in a fiber array. 17. A method according to claim 7, wherein said transporting step further comprises the steps of: passing a first optical fiber through a plurality of cylindrical hubs rotatable about a central axis, where each of said hubs comprises at least one bath containing a chemical species precursor, until a first predetermined chemical species is synthesized on said first fiber; rotating at least one of said hubs; and passing a second optical fiber through said plurality of cylindrical hubs until a second predetermined chemical compound is synthesized on said second fiber. 