An apparatus imparts movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle with a mechanism for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation, and an elongate orbital member is connectable to the mechanism at one end and is connectable to a fluid nozzle at an opposite end from the mechanism. The orbital member provides orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the mechanism about the rotational axis, and provides stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to a non-rotating mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation; and an elongate rigid orbital member connectible to the converting means at one end and connectible to a fluid nozzle at an opposite end from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to lack of rotation of the converting means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the converting means further comprises: a rotatable shaft having a rotational axis and an elongate slot extending transverse to the rotational axis through an enlarged portion of the shaft; and a slide member movably engageable within the elongate slot of the shaft for movement between a centered position with respect to the rotational axis and a displaced position with respect to the rotational axis, wherein movement between the centered position and the displaced position is in response to rotational movement of the shaft. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising; a replaceable plate of predetermined dimension for adjusting an amount of transverse movement of the slide member in response to rotational movement of the shaft, wherein a smaller dimension plate provides greater transverse movement of the slide member resulting in a larger diameter orbital path for the opposite end of the elongate orbital member. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means for rotatably driving a shaft about the rotational axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the driving means further comprises an in-line motor connectible to the shaft. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the driving means further comprises an offset motor connectible to the shaft through a rotary transmission. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the rotary transmission further comprises a first pulley connectible to the motor, a second pulley connectible to the shaft, and a drive belt operably engageable between the first and second pulleys to transfer rotary motion of the motor to the shaft. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: biasing means for urging a slide member toward the centered position when a shaft is stationary. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: adjustable means for setting a centered position of a slide member with respect to the rotational axis of a shaft. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a support plate for supporting a shaft and the orbital member relative to one another; and a bracket connected to the support plate and connectible with a moveable member for movement along a predetermined path. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the moveable member is a wrist of a programmable robot. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: the fluid nozzle for applying a fluid material selected from a group consisting of a sealant material, an adhesive material, and a noise attenuation material. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means for adjusting a dispersal pattern of the fluid material. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the adjusting means further comprises: the fluid nozzle having a plurality of apertures formed therein at equally spaced angular positions with respect to one another. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the plurality of apertures are identical to one another. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the plurality of apertures are machined at an angle with respect to a center of the fluid nozzle. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the plurality of apertures include a central aperture in the fluid nozzle. 18. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation, wherein the converting means includes a rotatable shaft having a rotational axis and an elongate, longitudinally angled, slot extending radially with respect to the rotational axis through an enlarged portion of the shaft, and a ball member connected to an elongate orbital member at one end, the ball member rotatably and slidably received with respect to the angled slot for movement between a centered position with respect to the rotational axis and a displaced position with respect to the rotational axis, wherein movement between the centered position and the displaced position is in response to longitudinal movement of the shaft with respect to the ball member; and the elongate orbital member connectible to the converting means at one end and connectible to a fluid nozzle at an opposite end from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to lack of rotation of the converting means. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising: means for moving one of the shaft and the elongate member longitudinally with respect to the rotational axis. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the moving means further comprises: the shaft having an enlarged flange portion defining a piston disposed within a cylindrical housing for controlled movement between first and second longitudinal end limits of travel, wherein one end limit corresponds to the centered position and another end limit corresponds to the displaced position. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the moving means is moveable for infinite adjustability between the centered position and the displaced position of the ball member. 22. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation; an elongate orbital member connectible to the converting means at one end and connectible to a fluid nozzle at an opposite end from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to lack of rotation of the converting means; and biasing means for urging a slide member toward a centered position when a shaft is stationary, wherein the biasing means further includes a spring engaged between the shaft and the slide member of sufficient strength to move the slide member to the centered position when the shaft is not rotating. 23. An apparatus for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising: means for converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation; an elongate orbital member connectible to the converting means at one end and connectible to a fluid nozzle at an opposite end from the converting means, an orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to lack of rotation of the converting means; and adjustable means for setting the centered position of a slide member with respect to the rotational axis of a shaft, wherein the adjustable means further includes at least one set screw defining a stop for the slide member at the centered position. 24. A method for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising the steps of: converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation with converting means; connecting an elongate orbital member to the converting means at one end of the orbital member, and a fluid nozzle connected at an opposite end of the orbital member from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to a lack of rotation of the converting means. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the converting step further comprises the steps of: rotating a rotatable shaft having a rotational axis, the shaft having an elongate slot extending transverse to the rotational axis through an enlarged portion of the shaft; and movably engaging a slide member within the elongate slot of the shaft for movement between a centered position with respect to the rotational axis and a displaced position with respect to the rotational axis, wherein movement between the centered position and the displaced position is in response to rotational movement of the shaft. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein the converting step further comprises the step of: adjusting an amount of transverse movement of the slide member in response to rotational movement of the shaft with a weighted plate, wherein a heavier plate provides greater transverse movement of the slide member resulting in a larger diameter orbital path for the opposite end of the elongate orbital member. 27. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: rotatably driving a shaft about the rotational axis with driving means. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the driving step further comprises the step of connecting an in-line motor to the shaft. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the driving step further comprises the step of connecting an offset motor to the shaft through a rotary transmission. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the connecting step for the rotary transmission further comprises the steps of: connecting a first pulley to the motor; connecting a second pulley to the shaft; and operably engaging a drive belt between the first and second pulleys to transfer rotary motion of the motor to the shaft. 31. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: urging a slide member toward the centered position when a shaft is stationary with biasing means. 32. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: setting the centered position of a slide member with respect to the rotational axis of a shaft with adjustable means. 33. The method of claim 24 further comprising the steps of: supporting a shaft and the orbital member relative to one another with a support plate; and connecting a bracket to the support plate, the bracket connectible with a moveable member for movement along a predetermined path. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the moveable member is a wrist of a programmable robot. 35. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: applying a fluid material selected from a group consisting of a sealant material, an adhesive material, and a noise attenuation material with the fluid nozzle. 36. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: adjusting a dispersal pattern of the fluid material with adjusting means. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the adjusting step further comprises the step of: forming a plurality of apertures in the fluid nozzle at equally spaced angular positions with respect to one another. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the plurality of apertures are identical to one another. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein the plurality of apertures are machined at an angle with respect to a center of the fluid nozzle. 40. The method of claim 37 wherein the plurality of apertures include a central aperture in the fluid nozzle. 41. A method for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising the steps of: converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation with converting means, wherein the converting step further includes the steps of rotating a shaft having a rotational axis, the shaft having an elongate, longitudinally angled, slot extending radially with respect to the rotational axis through an enlarged portion of the shaft, and connecting a ball member to an elongate orbital member at one end, the ball member rotatably and slidably received with respect to the angled slot for movement between a centered position with respect to the rotational axis and a displaced position with respect to the rotational axis, wherein movement between the centered position and the displaced position is in response to longitudinal movement of the shaft with respect to the ball member; and connecting the elongate orbital member to the converting means at the one end of the orbital member, and a fluid nozzle connected at an opposite end of the orbital member from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to a lack of rotation of the converting means. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the converting step further comprises the steps of: moving one of the shaft and the elongate member longitudinally with respect to the rotational axis with moving means. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the moving step further comprises the step of: moving of the shaft with an enlarged flange portion defining a piston disposed within a cylindrical housing for controlled movement between first and second longitudinal end limits of travel, wherein one end limit corresponds to the centered position and another end limit corresponds to the displaced position. 44. The method of claim 42 wherein the moving step further comprises infinite adjustability between the centered position and the displaced position of the ball member with respect to the slot. 45. A method for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising the steps of: converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation with converting means; connecting an elongate orbital member to the converting means at one end of the orbital member, and a fluid nozzle connected at an opposite end of the orbital member from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to a lack of rotation of the converting means; and urging a slide member toward a centered position when a shaft is stationary with biasing means, wherein the urging step further includes the step of engaging a spring between the shaft and the slide member of sufficient strength to move the slide member to the centered position when the shaft is not rotating. 46. A method for imparting movement to a fluid dispersing nozzle comprising the steps of: converting rotational movement about an axis of rotation into orbital movement about the axis of rotation with converting means; connecting an elongate orbital member to the converting means at one end of the orbital member, and a fluid nozzle connected at an opposite end of the orbital member from the converting means, the orbital member providing orbiting movement of the opposite end in response to rotation of the converting means about the rotational axis and providing stationary centered positioning of the opposite end in response to a lack of rotation of the converting means; and setting the centered position of the slide member with respect to the rotational axis of the shaft with adjustable means, wherein the adjusting means further includes at least one set screw defining a stop for the slide member at the centered position. 