A method and system for sharing robotic mechanisms between physically remote storage libraries in an automated storage library system includes routing robotic mechanism guide structures between the storage libraries. The guide structures run through robotic mechanism transfer ports located on the sides of the housing enclosures of the storage libraries. A robotic mechanism within an first storage library moves through the transfer port of the enclosure of the first storage library onto the guide structure. The robotic mechanism then moves out of the enclosure of the first storage library along the guide structure towards a second storage library. The robotic mechanism then moves along the guide structure through the transfer port of the enclosure of the second storage library and into the second storage library for performing operations such as accessing media objects within the second storage library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a storage library system having first and second storage libraries each having an enclosure with a robotic mechanism transfer port, wherein a guide structure is routed from the robotic mechanism transfer port of the first storage library to the robotic mechanism transfer port of the second storage library, wherein the storage library system further includes a third storage library having an enclosure with a robotic mechanism transfer port, wherein a second guide structure is routed from the robotic mechanism transfer port of the first storage library to the robotic mechanism transfer port of the third storage library, and wherein a third guide structure is routed from the robotic mechanism transfer port of the second storage library to the robotic mechanism transfer port of the third storage library, the method comprising: positioning a robotic mechanism within the enclosure of the first storage library for performing operations within the first storage library; moving the robotic mechanism along the guide structure from within the enclosure of the first storage library to within the enclosure of the second storage library; performing operations within the second storage library with the robotic mechanism; moving the robotic mechanism along the second guide structure from within the enclosure of the first storage library to within the enclosure of the third storage library; and performing operations within the third storage library with the robotic mechanism; moving the robotic mechanism along the third guide structure from within the enclosure of the second storage library to within the enclosure of the third storage library; and performing operations within the third storage library with the robotic mechanism. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: positioning a second robotic mechanism within the enclosure of the second storage library for performing operations within the second storage library; moving the second robotic mechanism along the guide structure from within the enclosure of the second storage library to within the enclosure of the first storage library; and performing operations within the first storage library with the second robotic mechanism. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: the guide structure includes tracks. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein: the guide structure includes rails. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic mechanism is operable to load/unload media from the at least one media drive within the first storage library and to load/unload media from at least one media drive within the second storage library. 