In a robot and its control method the behavior and motion models functioning as bases in generating behaviors and motions of the robot are transformed based on the input history from the outside and the history of its own behaviors and motions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, for learning predetermined functions, comprising: behavior and/or motion generating means for generating behavior and/or motion functions based on behavior and/or motion models, each behavior and/or motion model being associated with one of a plurality of growth level stages; and behavior and/or motion model transforming means for transforming said behavior and/or motion models into behavior and/or motion models of a higher growth level at a given timing selectively based on an input history supplied from outside the robot or the history of the robot's evaluation of the robot's own behaviors and/or motions, wherein said robot learns said functions at a predetermined learning speed in accordance with said growth level stages. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein said predetermined functions include a language function or a moving function. 3. A robot comprising: a growth element detector detecting a growth element supplied from outside the robot or from within the robot; a memory for storing a plurality of behavior and/or motion models, each behavior and/or motion model being associated with one of at least three growth stages; a growth stage transformer for transforming a current growth stage of the robot based on said detected growth element; and a controller for controlling said robot based on said behavior and/or motion model in accordance with the current growth stage that was transformed. 4. The robot of claim 3, wherein said growth stages are classified according to a directory tree. 5. The robot of claim 3, wherein said growth stages include at least three stages selected from the group consisting of a tweety stage, a baby stage, a child stage, a young stage and an adult stage. 6. The robot of claim 3, wherein said growth stage transformer transforms said growth stage from a current growth stage to a higher growth stage or to a lower growth stage. 