Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of estrogen receptor alpha. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding estrogen receptor alpha. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of estrogen receptor alpha expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of estrogen receptor alpha are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 8 to 30 nucleobases in length targted to nucleobases 802 throuqh 821 or nucleobases 993 through 1012 of a coding region of a nucleic acid molecule of SEQ ID NO: 3 encoding estrogen receptor alpha, wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with one of said regions and inhibits the expression of estroqen receptor alpha. 2. The compound of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O--methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 12. The composition of claim 10 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. A method of inhibiting the expression of estrogen receptor alpha in cells or tissues in vitro comprising contacting said cells or tissues with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of estrogen receptor alpha is inhibited. 