A method and device for separating from samples magnetic particles that contain capture compounds on their surfaces. The device includes a sheath including a magnet and including orienting pin adapted to concentrate or direct a magnetic field of the magnet; and a magnetizable plate with lid holes for receiving a vessel lid of a vessel, the magnetizable plate configured to receive the sheath and position the orienting pin over the vessel lid. In one method, magnetic beads with attached molecules are collected in the lids of the reaction vessel by the magnetic separator device provided herein and the separated magnetic particles, which carry the molecules of interest through affinity-based attachment chemistry and are held in the lid by the magnet of the device, are released into a new vessel containing a solution by removal of the separator device without the need for pipettes or liquid handling devices.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A device, comprising: a sheath comprising a magnet and including a plurality of orienting pins that each concentrate or direct a magnetic field of the magnet; vessels; vessel lids; and a magnetizable plate; wherein: the magnetizable plate is configured to receive the sheath and is configured to receive vessel lids; the magnetizable plate is configured to position the orienting pins over the vessel lids; each orienting pin is adapted to concentrate or direct a magnetic field of the magnet to a vessel lid in the magnetizable plate; and when the vessel lids are engaged with the vessels, the magnetizable plate is positioned between the vessel lids and the vessels. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein: the magnet is embedded in the sheath; the orienting pins are integrated into the sheath; and each orienting pin concentrates or directs a magnetic field of the magnet to the middle of its associated vessel lid and allows for the concentrated collection of magnetic particles in the middle of the lids. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet is a permanent magnet, a high performance magnet, a rare earth magnet or an electromagnet. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet is selected from among an R-cobalt magnet and an R--Fe--B magnet, wherein R is selected from among lanthanum (La), cerium (Ce), praseodymium (Pr), neodymium (Nd), samarium (Sm), europium (Eu), gadolinium (Gd), terbium (Tb), dysprosium (Dy), holmium (Ho), erbium (Er), thulium (Tm), ytterbium (Yb), lutetium (Lu)), scandium (Sc) and yttrium (Y). 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet is a neodymium magnet. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet has a (BH).sub.max of from 5 MGOe to 50 MGOe, at least 25 MGOe, from 20 MGOe up to 90 MGOe; or from 25 MGOe up to 50MGOe. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet has a remanence from about 3 kG to about 20 kG. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet has an intrinsic coercivity of greater than 5 kOe. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the sheath comprises a non-magnetic material. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the sheath is aluminum or an aluminum alloy. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnet is embedded in the sheath. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the sheath includes a bottom comprising the orienting pins. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein the magnet is attached to one face of the bottom of the sheath. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the magnet is attached to one face of the bottom of the sheath by magnetic attraction to the orienting pins, or by an adhesive, or by a mechanical connector. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein: the magnet is attached to the bottom of the sheath; and the sheath has no side walls; or the sheath has no front, rear or side walls and no top; or the sheath comprises at least two sides and the bottom and the at least two sides define a cavity sized to receive the magnet through an open top or an optional closed top that is removable to expose the cavity. 16. The device of claim 1, wherein: the sheath comprises a bottom containing the orienting pins; and the orienting pins traverse the thickness of the bottom of the sheath; or the orienting pins do not fully traverse the thickness of the bottom of the sheath leaving one face of the bottom of the sheath unpenetrated; or, the orienting pins do not fully traverse the thickness of the bottom of the sheath leaving the face of the bottom of the sheath pointing towards the magnet unperforated; or the orienting pins do not fully traverse the thickness of the bottom of the sheath leaving the face of the bottom of the sheath pointing towards the lids of the vessels unperforated; or the orienting pins do not fully traverse the thickness of the bottom of the sheath and are embedded into the material of the bottom of the sheath leaving all faces of the bottom of the sheath unperforated. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the orienting pins are of a material having a magnetic permeability higher than the magnetic permeability of the material from which the sheath is fabricated. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein the orienting pins are formed of iron, steel, a mu metal or a soft magnetic alloy comprising about 80% nickel, 5% copper, 2% chromium, and 15% iron. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein: one or more of the orienting pins is a magnet, and the magnetic North pole face of the orienting pin(s) is positioned to face the magnetic South pole face of the magnet in the sheath or the magnetic South pole face of the orienting pin(s) is positioned to face the magnetic North pole face of the magnet in the sheath. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein the orienting pins in the sheath are arranged linearly or in a circular, rectangular or quadrangular array. 21. The device of claim 1, wherein the number of orienting pins in the sheath is an integer selected from among 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 24, 36, 48 or 96 or a multiple thereof. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein: the sheath further comprises a fit pin; and the magnetizable plate further comprises a fit pin hole configured to receive the pin. 23. The device of claim 22, wherein: the sheath includes an edge having one or more fit pins and an opposite edge having a different number of fit pins to ensure only one orientation for the magnetizable plate and the sheath; or the sheath includes one fit pin at one edge and two or more fit pins on the opposite edge, each pin configured to align with corresponding fit pin holes. 24. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnetizable plate is configured to accept a vessel lid of a vessel including multiple chambers. 25. A device of claim 1, wherein each of the sheath comprising the magnet and the magnetizable plate is rectangular or is circular. 26. The device of claim 1, wherein the magnetizable plate is formed of steel or iron or of a soft magnetic alloy comprising about 80% nickel, 5% copper, 2% chromium, and 15% iron. 27. The device of claim 1, further comprising a rack for holding a plurality of vessels. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein: the vessels comprise vials, and the rack is configured to receive the vials; or the vessels comprise a multi-well plate, and the rack is configured to receive the multi-well plate. 29. A kit, comprising: a device of claim 1; and magnetic particles and optionally vessels or multiwell plates and optionally instructions for use. 30. The kit of claim 29, further comprising a capture compound that comprises a sorting function. 31. The kit of claim 30, wherein the sorting function comprises one member of a specific binding pair. 32. The kit of claim 31, wherein the magnetic particles include on their surface the corresponding member of the binding pair. 33. The kit of any claim 30, wherein the sorting function is biotin and the magnetic particle includes on its surface avidin or streptavidin. 34. A system, comprising: a device of claim 1; a device for providing light; a capture compound comprising a light-activated reactivity function; and optionally a device for analysis of biomolecules. 35. A system, comprising: a device of claim 1; a device for providing light; a capture compound comprising a light-activated reactivity function; and a device for analysis of biomolecules, wherein the device for analysis is selected from among a mass spectrometer, an electrophoretic separator device, a surface plasmon resonance device and a chromatography device. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the mass spectrometer performs time of flight mass spectrometry with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI-TOF), quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometry, secondary ion mass spectrometry, accelerator mass spectrometry, inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry, Ion Mobility Spectrometry-MS, Surface Enhanced Laser Desorption Ionization (SELDI-TOF), tandem mass spectrometry or Electrospray Ionization (ESI) mass spectrometry. 37. The system of claim 34, further comprising a computer programmed for analysis of captured biomolecules. 