A robotic order picking system employing a plurality of pedestal robots is provided. The robotic order picking system also employs a specialized transfer car including a pallet stacker. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a robotic order picking system is provided comprising a plurality of pallet stations, a conveyor network, a pedestal robot, and a robotic order assembly station. The pedestal robot and the conveyor network are arranged to define product transfer paths extending from respective ones of the plurality of pallet stations to the robotic order assembly station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic order picking system comprising: a plurality of pallet stations; a conveyor network; a pedestal robot; and a robotic order assembly station, wherein said pedestal robot and said conveyor network are arranged to define product transfer paths extending from respective ones of said plurality of pallet stations to said robotic order assembly station; said plurality of pallet stations include pick-up and delivery stations and pick stations and wherein said robotic order picking system comprises a transfer car arranged to move a product and an associated pallet from one of said pick-up and delivery stations to one of said pick stations; and said transfer car includes a pallet stacker. 2. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said plurality of pallet stations further include back stock stations and wherein said transfer car is arranged to move a product and an associated pallet between said back stock stations, said pick-up and delivery stations, and said pick stations. 3. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transfer car is arranged to receive respective empty pallets from said pick stations and to stack and retain a plurality of said empty pallets in said pallet stacker. 4. A robotic order picking system comprising: a plurality of pallet stations; a conveyor network; a pedestal robot; and a robotic order assembly station, wherein said pedestal robot and said conveyor network are arranged to define product transfer paths extending from respective ones of said plurality of pallet stations to said robotic order assembly station; said plurality of pallet stations include pick stations positioned within an operating envelope of said pedestal robot and wherein said pick stations and said operating envelope are fixed relative to one another; and said pedestal robot is arranged to remove a selected product from a pallet in one of said pallet stations and to transfer said selected product to a selected conveyor in said conveyor network. 5. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said operating envelope of said pedestal robot is fixed in a horizontal plane of said robotic order picking system. 6. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said conveyor network defines independent conveying paths and wherein each of said independent conveying paths is accessible by said pedestal robot. 7. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 6 wherein each of said independent conveying paths defines a portion of one of said product transfer paths. 8. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 further comprising a plurality of bi-directional shuttles arranged to move products from a robot drop-off position to said selected conveyor. 9. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said robotic order assembly station is arranged to transfer products from said conveyor network to a selected pallet. 10. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 9 wherein said robotic order assembly station is further programmed to assemble a specific collection of products on selected pallets as a function of a specific product order. 11. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 further comprising a product identification station arranged to identify products to be placed in said pallet stations. 12. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to move through at least four degrees of freedom. 13. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to move through at least six degrees of freedom. 14. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to move in a horizontal plane of said robotic order picking system. 15. A robotic order picking system comprising: a plurality of pallet stations; a conveyor network; a pedestal robot; and a robotic order assembly station, wherein said pedestal robot and said conveyor network are arranged to define product transfer paths extending from respective ones of said plurality of pallet stations to said robotic order assembly station; said plurality of pallet stations include pick stations positioned within an operating envelope of said pedestal robot and wherein said pick stations and said operating envelope are fixed relative to one another: and said plurality of pallet stations include pick stations within an operating envelope of said pedestal robot and wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to remove a selected product from a pallet in one of said pick stations and to transfer said selected product to a selected conveyor in said conveyor network. 16. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said operating envelope of said pedestal robot is fixed in a horizontal plane of said robotic order picking system. 17. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said conveyor network defines independent conveying paths and wherein each of said independent conveying paths is accessible by said pedestal robot. 18. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said robotic order assembly station is arranged to transfer products from said conveyor network to a selected pallet. 19. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 further comprising a product identification station arranged to identify products to be placed in said pallet stations. 20. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to move through at least four degrees of freedom. 21. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to move through at least six degrees of freedom. 22. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said pedestal robot is arranged to move in a horizontal plane of said robotic order picking system. 23. A robotic order picking system comprising: a plurality of pallet stations including first and second rows of pick-up and delivery stations and first and second rows of pick stations; a first transfer car arranged to move along a first path between said first row of pick-up and delivery stations and said first row of pick stations, and move a product and an associated pallet from one of said pick-up and delivery stations in said first row of pick-up and delivery stations to one of said pick stations in said first row of pick stations; a second transfer car arranged to move along a second path between said second row of pick-up and delivery stations and said second row of pick stations, and move a product and an associated pallet from one of said pick-up and delivery stations in said second row of pick-up and delivery stations to one of said pick stations in said second row of pick stations; a conveyor network defining a conveyor path extending between said first and second rows of pick stations; a pedestal robot arranged to remove a selected product from a pallet in one of said pick stations and to transfer said selected product to a selected conveyor along said conveyor path in said conveyor network, wherein an operating envelope of said pedestal robot includes pick stations in said first and second rows of pick stations; and a robotic order assembly station arranged to transfer products from said conveyor network to an order pallet. 24. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 23 wherein said plurality of pallet stations further include back stock stations and wherein said transfer cars are arranged to move a product and an associated pallet between said back stock stations, said pick-up and delivery stations, and said pick stations. 25. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 24 wherein said back stock stations are positioned in said first and second rows of pick-up and delivery stations. 26. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 24 wherein said back stock stations are positioned in said first and second rows of pick stations. 27. A robotic order picking system as claimed in claim 23 wherein said transfer car includes a pallet stacker. 28. A robotic order picking system comprising: a plurality of pallet stations including pick-up and delivery stations and pick stations; a transfer car arranged to move a product and an associated pallet from one of said pick-up and delivery stations to one of said pick stations; a conveyor network; a pedestal robot arranged to remove a selected product from a pallet in one of said pick stations and to transfer said selected product to a selected conveyor in said conveyor network; and a robotic order assembly station arranged to transfer products from said conveyor network to an order pallet. 