The present invention provides techniques for coupling radio-frequency (RF) power to a metal plate in a ceramic pedestal. Perforations in the metal plate allow ceramic-to-ceramic bonding through the metal plate. The power from an RF power feed is distributed to the perforated metal plate via several electrodes that are spaced away from the centerline of the RF power feed, thus splitting power distribution. A ceramic bonding disk between the metal plate and the RF power feed provides mechanical support for the metal plate and a ceramic body to bond to through the perforations, thus reducing cracking of the metal plate and the surrounding ceramic material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly comprising: a ceramic upper layer; a perforated metal layer having a plurality of perforations, said perforated metal layer disposed below said ceramic upper layer; a plurality of electrodes coupled to an electrode base, said electrodes electrically coupling said perforated metal layer to said electrode base; and a ceramic bonding disk disposed between said perforated metal layer and said electrode base, said ceramic bonding disk having a plurality of holes through which said electrodes extend through said ceramic bonding disk to said perforated metal layer, wherein said ceramic upper layer is bonded to said ceramic bonding disk through at least one of said plurality of perforations in said perforated metal layer. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said ceramic upper layer and said ceramic bonding disk comprise aluminum nitride. 3. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said perforated metal layer is a radio-frequency electrode. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said perforated metal layer comprises molybdenum or tungsten. 5. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said perforated metal layer is about 3-6 mil thick. 6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said ceramic upper layer is less than about 200 mil thick. 7. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said electrode base is configured as a metal spider having a plurality of arms. 8. The assembly of claim 7 wherein at least one of said plurality of arms is perforated to provide at least one through-hole through said arm. 9. The assembly of claim 7 wherein at least one of said plurality of arms is bent. 10. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising a planar heating element disposed within the assembly, said heating element comprising a plurality of pairs of concentric partial rows of resistive elements. 11. The assembly of claim 10 wherein said concentric partial rows have a sinuous pattern. 12. The assembly of claim 10 wherein each of said concentric partial rows of resistive elements is folded back to create a plurality of seams between each of said pairs of concentric partial rows of resistive elements, each of said plurality of seams being circumferentially offset from at least an adjacent seam. 13. The assembly of claim 12 wherein said plurality of pairs of concentric partial rows of resistive heating elements are configured to provide a non-uniform heating characteristic. 14. The assembly of claim 1 wherein a portion of at least one of said plurality of electrodes overhangs an edge of said electrode base. 15. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said electrode base has a conical shape with a top surface. 16. The assembly of claim 15 further comprising a conductive shelf, said conductive shelf coupled between said plurality of electrodes and said electrode base. 17. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said plurality of electrodes is disposed on said electrode base. 18. The assembly of claim 7 wherein said plurality of arms comprises at least four arms. 19. The assembly of claim 7 wherein at least one of said plurality of arms branches into a sub-arm. 