A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical system, comprising: a first medical device; a first console that can control said first medical device; a second input device that can control said first medical device; and an arbitrator that is coupled to said first console and allows either said first console or second console to control said first medical device. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said first medical device includes an instrument. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein said arbitrator includes a computer. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said first console includes a video screen and a handle. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said second console includes a video screen and a handle. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said second console includes a touchpad screen. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a priority that is used by said arbitrator to allow either said first console or second console to control said first medical device. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second consoles each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a source address that is used by said arbitrator to allow either said first console or second console to control said first medical device. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a communication link that couples said first and second consoles with said first medical device. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm that moves a medical instrument and further comprising a second medical device, said second medical device including a robotic arm that moves an endoscope coupled to a camera. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising a communication link that couples said first and second medical devices with said first and second consoles, and a computer that multiplexes robotic data from said robotic arms with video data from said camera onto said communication link. 13. A medical system, comprising: a first medical device; first console means for controlling said first medical device; second console means for controlling said first medical instrument; and arbitration means for allowing either said first console means or second console means to control said first medical device. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said first medical device includes an instrument. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein said first console means includes a console that has a video screen and a handle. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein said second console means includes a video screen and a handle. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein said second console means includes a touchpad screen. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein said first and second console means each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a priority that is used by said arbitrator means to allow either said first console means or second console means to control said first medical device. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein said first and second console means each transmit a packet of information, each packet including a source address that is used by said arbitrator means to allow either said first console means or second console means to control said first medical device. 21. The system of claim 13, wherein said arbitrator means includes a computer. 22. The system of claim 13, further comprising communication means for coupling said first and second console means with said first medical device. 23. The system of claim 13, wherein said first medical device includes a robotic arm that moves a medical instrument and further comprising a said second medical device including a robotic arm that moves an endoscope coupled to a camera. 24. The system of claim 23, further comprising communication means for coupling said first and second medical devices with said first and second console means, and multiplexer means for multiplexing robotic data from said robotic arms with video data from said camera onto said communication means. 