An input device includes a handle coupled to a base by a linkage. The handle is manually movable relative to the base to provide a position input. The linkage has a plurality of links including a redundant link that permits internal motion of the linkage such that the linkage can move without moving the handle relative to the base. When a distance between the handle and a handle stop position is less than a threshold distance, a handle stop applies a first load to the handle. A drive system applies a second load to the redundant link responsive to the first load to create internal motion of the linkage that increases a distance between the handle and a handle stop position. The second load may be proportional to a cosine of an angle between a handle axis of motion and a redundant link axis of motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An input device comprising: a base; a handle manually movable relative to the base to provide a position input; a linkage coupling the handle to the base, the linkage having a plurality of links including a redundant link that permits internal motion of the linkage such that the linkage can move without moving the handle relative to the base; a handle stop that applies a first load to the handle to push the handle away from a handle stop position when a distance between the handle and the handle stop position is less than a threshold distance; and a linkage drive system coupled to the redundant link, the linkage drive system to apply a second load to the redundant linkage responsive to the first load, the second load creating internal motion of the linkage such that the distance between the handle and the handle stop position is increased. 2. The input device of claim 1, wherein the first load increases as the distance between the handle and the handle stop position decreases. 3. The input device of claim 2, wherein the first load increases as a velocity of the handle toward the handle stop position increases and decreases as the velocity of the handle away from the handle stop position increases. 4. The input device of claim 2, wherein the second load applied to the redundant linkage by the drive system is sufficient to create the internal motion necessary to reduce the first load applied to the handle and to overcome friction in the linkage. 5. The input device of claim 2, wherein the handle moves with respect to a first axis, the redundant link moves with respect to a second axis, and the second load is proportional to a cosine of an angle between the first axis and the second axis. 6. The input device of claim 2, wherein the handle stop includes a spring that applies the first load to the handle. 7. The input device of claim 2, wherein the handle stop includes a handle drive system coupled to the handle that applies the first load to the handle. 8. The input device of claim 7, wherein the handle stop position is determined from a configuration of the linkage. 9. A method of controlling a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: receiving a position input from manually moving a handle relative to a base; receiving a distance between the handle and a handle stop position; and when the distance is less than a threshold distance, applying a first load to the handle to push the handle away from the handle stop position, and applying a second load to a redundant link of a linkage that couples the handle to the base responsive to the first load, the second load creating internal motion of the linkage without moving the handle relative to the base such that the distance between the handle and the handle stop position is increased. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first load increases as the distance between the handle and the handle stop position decreases. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first load increases as a velocity of the handle toward the handle stop position increases and decreases as the velocity of the handle away from the handle stop position increases. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the second load applied to the redundant linkage by the drive system is sufficient to create the internal motion necessary to reduce the first load applied to the handle and to overcome friction in the linkage. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the handle moves with respect to a first axis, the redundant link moves with respect to a second axis, and the second load is proportional to a cosine of an angle between the first axis and the second axis. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein applying the first load to the handle includes providing a spring that applies the first load to the handle. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein applying the first load to the handle includes providing a drive system coupled to the handle that applies the first load to the handle. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising determining the handle stop position from a configuration of the linkage. 17. An input device comprising: means for providing a position input relative to a base; means for applying a first load to the means for providing the position input when a distance between the means for providing the position input and a stop position is less than a threshold distance; and means for applying a second load to a redundant link of a linkage responsive to the first load, the linkage coupling the means for providing the position input to the base, the redundant link creating internal motion of the linkage without moving the means for providing the position input relative to the base, the second load increasing the distance between the means for providing a position input and the stop position. 18. The input device of claim 17, wherein the first load increases as the distance between the means for providing a position input and the stop position decreases. 19. The input device of claim 18, wherein the first load increases as a velocity of the handle toward the handle stop position increases and decreases as the velocity of the handle away from the handle stop position increases. 20. The input device of claim 18, wherein the second load applied to the redundant linkage by the drive system is sufficient to create the internal motion necessary to reduce the first load applied to the means for providing a position input and to overcome friction in the linkage. 21. The input device of claim 18, wherein the means for providing a position input moves with respect to a first axis, the redundant link moves with respect to a second axis, and the second load is proportional to a cosine of an angle between the first axis and the second axis. 22. The input device of claim 18, wherein the means for applying the first load includes a spring that applies the second load to the means for providing the position input. 23. The input device of claim 18, wherein the means for applying the first load includes a drive system coupled to the means for providing the position input. 24. The input device of claim 23, further comprising means for determining the stop position from a configuration of the linkage. 