A method and system for providing control that include providing a workpiece that includes a target shape, providing a cutting tool, providing a 3-D image associated with the workpiece, identifying the target shape within the workpiece image, providing a 3-D image associated with the cutting tool, registering the workpiece with the workpiece image, registering the cutting tool with the cutting tool image, tracking at least one of the workpiece and the cutting tool, transforming the tracking data based on image coordinates to determine a relationship between the workpiece and the cutting tool, and, based on the relationship, providing a control to the cutting tool. In one embodiment, the workpiece image can be represented as volume pixels (voxels) that can be classified and/or reclassified based on target shape, waste, and/or workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: a cutting tool; a workpiece that includes a target shape; a tracker to provide tracking data associated with the cutting tool and the workpiece, where the tracker includes at least one of: at least one first marker associated with the workpiece, and at least one second marker associated with the cutting tool; and a controller to control the cutting tool based on the tracking data associated with the cutting tool and the tracking data associated with the workpiece. 2. A system according to claim 1, where the cutting tool is at least one of a hand-held and a free-hand cutting tool. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein the cutting tool includes at least one cutting element, and where the cutting element comprises at least one of: at least one blade, at least one rotatable blade, at least one retractable blade, at least one water jet, at least one particulate jet, at least one lithotriptor, and at least one ultrasonic lithotriptor. 4. A system according to claim 1, where the controller controls the cutting tool by providing a control to perform at least one of: at least partially retract at least one cutting element, and at least partially reduce a rotation rate of at least one cutting element. 5. A system according to claim 1, where the controller transmits a control signal to the cutting tool, where the control signal includes at least one of: an analog signal, a digital signal, and no signal. 6. A system according to claim 1, where the tracker includes tracking data based on at least three positions and at least three angles. 7. A system according to claim 6, where the at least one first marker and the at least one second marker comprise at least one of: at least one infrared source, at least one Radio Frequency (RF) source, at least one ultrasound source, and at least one transmitter. 8. A system according to claim 1, where the system further includes at least one image associated with the workpiece and at least one image associated with the cutting tool. 9. A system according to claim 8, where the at least one workpiece image is registered to the workpiece, and the at least one cutting tool image is registered to the cutting tool. 10. A system according to claim 1, further including means to register the workpiece to at least one image associated with the workpiece, and means to register the cutting tool to at least one image associated with the cutting tool. 11. A system according to claim 1, further including means to provide at least one image associated with the workpiece, and means to provide at least one image associated with the cutting tool. 12. A system according to claim 1, further including a means to transform the tracking data to at least one of: at least one workpiece image and at least one cutting tool image. 13. A system according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece comprises at least one of: bone, cartilage, tendon, ligament, muscle, connective tissue, fat, neuron, hair, skin, a tumor, and an organ. 14. A system according to claim 1, wherein the tacking system comprises at least one of: an infrared tracking system, an optical tacking system, an ultrasound tacking system, an inertial tracking system, and a RF tracking system. 15. A system according to claim 1, wherein the cutting tool comprises an endoscopic instrument. 16. A system according to claim 1, where the controller includes at least one of a collision detection module and an intersection detection module. 17. A system, comprising: a workpiece having a target shape included therein, a tracker to track at least one of: a cutting tool and the workpiece, and, a control system, the control system including instructions to cause a processor to track the cutting tool and the workpiece, to associate the tracked data to an image associated with the cutting tool and an image associated with the workpiece, where the workpiece includes an image associated with the target shape, to determine a relationship between the cutting tool and at least one of the workpiece and the target shape, and to provide a control to the cutting tool based on at least one of the relationship of the cutting tool and the workpiece, and the relationship of the cutting tool and the target shape. 18. A system according to claim 17, further including an image registration means, where the image registration means registers the workpiece to an image associated with the workpiece, and the image registration means registers the cutting tool to an image associated with the cutting tool, and wherein, the control system includes instructions to update at least positions of the workpiece image and the cutting tool image based on data from the tracker, and, where at least one of the relationship of the cutting tool and the workpiece, and the relationship of the cutting tool and the target shape, are based on the updated image positions. 19. A system according to claim 18, where the relationship between the cutting tool and the workpiece is based on at least one of position data and angle data associated with at least one of the cutting tool and the workpiece, where the position data and angle data are based on the tracker. 20. A system according to claim 18, where the relationship between the cutting tool and the target shape is based on at least one of position data and angle data associated with at least one of the cutting tool and the target shape, where the position data and angle data are based on the tracker. 21. A system according to claim 17, where the instructions to determine a relationship include instructions to: represent the workpiece as a group of volume pixels (voxels), based on the tracker data, perform at least one of classify the voxels and update the voxels. 22. A system according to claim 21, where the instructions to classify voxels corresponding to the target shape include classifying voxels as target shape and classifying voxels as waste. 23. A system according claim 21, to where the instructions to classify voxels corresponding to the target shape include instructions to color-code voxels corresponding to the target shape. 24. A method, the method comprising: providing a workpiece that includes a target shape, providing a cutting tool, providing a 4-D image associated with the workpiece, identifying the target shape within the workpiece image, providing a 4-D image associated with the cutting tool, registering the workpiece with the workpiece image, registering the cutting tool with the tuning tool image, tracking at least one of the workpiece and the cutting tool, transforming the tacking data based on image coordinates to determine a relationship between the workpiece and the cutting tool, and, based on the relationship, providing a control to the cutting tool. 25. A method according to claim 24, where the workpiece image is comprised of volume pixels (voxels). 26. A method according to claim 24, further comprising representing the workpiece image using volume pixels (voxels), and classifying the workpiece image voxels based on the target shape. 27. A method according to claim 26, further comprising re-classifying the voxels based on the relationship. 28. A method according to claim 26, where classifying includes distinguishing between target shape voxels and workpiece voxels. 29. A method according to claim 28, where distinguishing includes associating target shape voxels with the target shape and associating non-target shape voxels as waste. 30. A method according to claim 28, where distinguishing includes color-coding at least target shape voxels associated with the target shape. 31. A method according to claim 26, where classifying includes, identifying mixture voxels that include part workpiece and part target shape, subdividing the mixture voxels, and, iteratively returning to identifying mixture voxels to a predetermined voxel resolution. 32. A method according to claim 31, where subdividing the mixture voxels includes subdividing based on an octree. 33. A method according to claim 31, further comprising recombining voxels having the same classification. 34. A method according to claim 24, where providing an image associated with the workpiece includes providing at least one of: CT scan data, X-ray data, MRI data, fluoroscopy data, and ultrasound data. 35. A method according to claim 24, further including calibrating a probe. 36. A method according to claim 35, where at least one of registering the workpiece and registering the cutting tool includes employing the calibrated probe to identify at least one location on at least one of the workpiece and the cutting tool. 37. A method according to claim 24, where tracking includes providing at least one marker on at least one of the workpiece and the cutting tool. 38. A method according to claim 24, where tracking includes determining at least one position and at least one angle associated with at least one of the workpiece and the cutting tool. 39. A method according to claim 24, where transforming the tracking data includes performing at least one of collision detection and interference detection. 40. A method according to claim 24, where identifying includes classifying voxels associated with the workpiece based on the tracking data. 41. A method according to claim 26, where classifying includes re-classifying voxels based on the tracking data. 42. A method according to claim 41, where re-classifying includes identifying voxels associated with the workpiece that are eliminated by the cutting tool. 43. A method according to claim 41, where at least one of classifying and re-classifying includes, identifying mixture voxels, subdividing the mixture voxels, and, iteratively returning to identifying mixture voxels, until reaching a predetermined voxel resolution. 44. A method according to claim 43, where identifying mixture voxels includes identifying voxels having more than one classification. 45. A method according to claim 43, where subdividing the mixture voxels includes subdividing based on an octree. 46. A method according to claim 43, further comprising recombining voxels having the same classification. 47. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control includes determining a distance between the cutting tool image and the target shape. 48. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control includes increasing the size of the cutting tool image to determine whether the increased size cutting tool image intersects with the target shape in the workpiece image. 49. A method according to claim 48, where increasing the size includes at least one of increasing the size by a fixed amount, and increasing the size based on tracking data associated with the cutting tool. 50. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control includes providing a control based on the relationship between a cutting element associated with the cutting tool image, and voxels classified based on the target shape. 51. A method according to claim 24, where providing a workpiece image comprises, providing a three-dimensional grid of voxels, incorporating the workpiece image into the grid, and, identifying grid voxels associated with the workpiece. 52. A method according to claim 51, where identifying grid voxels associated with the workpiece includes associating at least one of the grid voxels with at least one of the workpiece and the target shape. 53. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control includes at least one of: providing an analog signal, providing a digital signal, providing a control to at least partially retract a cutting element associated with the cutting tool, providing a control to reduce the speed of a cutting element associated with the cutting tool, and providing a control to stop a cutting element associated with a cutting tool. 54. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control to the cutting tool, includes performing at least one of collision detection and intersection detection. 55. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control to the cutting tool includes performing at least one of collision detection and intersection detection between at least part of the cutting tool and the target shape of the workpiece image. 56. A method according to claim 24, where identifying the target shape includes classifying voxels associated with the workpiece image as at least one of workpiece and target shape. 57. A method according to claim 55, where providing control to the cutting tool includes performing at least one of collision detection and intersection detection between at least part of the cutting tool and the target shape voxels. 58. A method according to claim 24, where providing a control includes providing a control based on a threshold distance between the workpiece image and the cutting tool image. 59. A system, comprising: a free-hand cutting tool; a controller in communications with the cutting tool and to control the cutting tool based on the position of the cutting tool relative to a target shape. 60. A system according to claim 59, where the cutting tool is a hand-held cutting tool. 61. A system according to claim 59, where the target shape is associated with a workpiece. 62. A system according to claim 59, further comprising a tracker to provide tracking data associated with the cutting tool and the workpiece. 63. A system according to claim 62, where the controller is based on the tracking data. 64. A system according to claim 59, where the control includes at least one of: at least partially retract at least one cutting element associated with the cutting tool, and at least partially reduce a rotation rate of at least one cutting element associated with the cutting tool. 65. A system according to claim 59, where the target shape includes a bone. 