Methods for evaluating catalysts, in which a multicell holder, e.g., a honeycomb or plate, or a collection of individual support particles, is treated with solutions/suspensions of catalyst ingredients to produce cells, spots or pellets holding each of a variety of combinations of the ingredients, is dried, calcined or treated as necessary to stabilize the ingredients in the cells, spots or pellets, then is contacted with a potentially reactive feed stream or batch, e.g., biochemical, gas oil, hydrogen plus oxygen, propylene plus oxygen, CCl.sub.2 F.sub.2 and hydrogen, etc. The reaction occurring in each cell can be measured, e.g., by infrared thermography, spectroscopic detection of products or residual reactants, or by sampling, e.g., multistreaming through low volume tubing, from the vicinity of each combination, followed by analysis, e.g., spectral analysis, chromatography, etc., or by observing temperature change in the vicinity of the catalyst, e.g., by thermographic techniques, to determine the relative efficacy of the catalysts in each combination. Robotic techniques can be employed in producing the cells, spots, pellets, etc.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising simultaneously contacting a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, the plurality of candidate catalysts being simultaneously contacted with the one or more reactants in a common reactor, and simultaneously detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants by spectroscopic methods to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are detected with a technique selected from the group consisting of infrared spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, laser spectroscopy, and optical spectroscopy. 3. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising flowing a reactant-containing stream through each of a plurality of reaction channels in a parallel flow reactor, each of the plurality of reaction channels comprising an inlet for receiving a reactant-containing stream, an outlet for discharging a product containing stream, and a plurality of catalyst-candidates having differing compositions, each of the plurality of catalyst candidates being in its own reaction channel, simultaneously contacting a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions with one or more reactants under reaction conditions such that at least one reaction is catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts, the reaction conditions including a temperature greater than 100.degree. C., and additionally, or alternatively, a pressure of greater than 1 bar, and simultaneously detecting reaction products in the plurality of product-containing streams by spectroscopic methods to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts, wherein the parallel flow reactor further comprises a plurality of sampling tubes adapted to provide fluid communication between the plurality of reaction channels and a plurality of spectrometers for multistream detection of a reaction product or unreacted reactant in each of the plurality of discharged product-containing streams. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one reaction is catalyzed by each of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 5. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising simultaneously contacting a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, irradiating the reaction products or unreacted reactants, determining radiation absorbed by reaction products or unreacted reactants during the course of the reaction to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the absorbed radiation is determined with a camera. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are simultaneously irradiated, and the absorbed radiation is simultaneously determined. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are irradiated with infrared radiation, and the absorbed infrared radiation is determined. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted with one or more reactants in a parallel reactor comprising a plurality of reaction channels and one or more infrared-transparent windows, each of the plurality of candidate catalysts being in its own reaction channel, the reaction products are irradiated with infrared radiation through an infrared-transparent window and the radiation absorbed by the reaction products is determined through an infrared-transparent window. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the parallel reactor is a batch reactor pressurized with the one or more reactants. 11. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising simultaneously contacting a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, and detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants using infrared spectroscopy to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the infrared spectroscopy is selected from the group consisting of nondispersive infrared spectroscopy, fourier-transformed near infrared spectroscopy (FTNIR), and fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are simultaneously detected using infrared spectroscopy. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the infrared spectroscopy is effected at different wavelengths. 15. The method of claims 5 or 11 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted with the one or more reactants in a common reactor. 16. The method of claims 1, 5 and 11 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted with the one or more reactants in parallel reactor comprising a plurality of reaction channels, each of the plurality of candidate catalysts being in its own reaction channel. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the parallel reactor comprises a plurality of reaction channels in a monolithic support. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the parallel reactor is a flow reactor and the one or more reactants flow through each of the plurality of reaction channels. 19. The method of claim 16 therein the parallel reactor is a batch reactor pressurized with the one or more reactants. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of candidate catalysts are tagged or labeled to identify particular catalyst candidates, the method further comprising collecting candidate catalysts showing catalytic activity, and analyzing the tag or label of the collected candidate catalysts to determine the catalyst candidates having catalytic activity. 21. The method of claims 1, 5 or 11 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are transition metals or transition metal oxides. 22. The method of claims 1, 5 or 11 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises fifteen candidate catalysts. 23. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising simultaneously contacting a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, and detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants using polarized light spectroscopy to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the catalysts are enzymes. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein the catalysts are chiral catalysts. 26. A method for evaluating a plurality of candidate catalysts, the method comprising providing a parallel reactor comprising a plurality of candidate catalysts having differing compositions, a plurality of reaction channels, and one or more radiation-transparent windows, each of the plurality of candidate catalysts being in its own reaction channel, contacting the plurality of candidate catalysts with one or more reactants under reaction conditions to catalyze at least one reaction, irradiating the reaction products or unreacted reactants with radiation through a radiation-transparent window, and detecting reaction products or unreacted reactants by spectroscopic methods through a radiation-transparent window to determine the relative efficacy of the plurality of candidate catalysts. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted with the one or more reactants. 28. The method of claim 26 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are simultaneously detected. 29. The method of claim 26 wherein the parallel reactor comprises a plurality of reaction channels in a monolithic support. 30. The method of claim 26 wherein the plurality of reaction channels are arranged an array with a density of at least 9 reaction channels per square inch. 31. The method of claim 26 wherein the parallel reactor is a flow reactor and the one or more reactants flow through each of the plurality of reaction channels. 32. The method of claim 26 wherein the parallel reactor is a batch reactor pressurized with the one or more reactants. 33. The method of claim 26 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are irradiated with infrared radiation through an infrared-transparent window and the reaction products or unreacted reactants are detected by infrared spectroscopy through an infrared-transparent window. 34. The method of claim 26 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are simultaneously contacted with the one or more reactants, the reaction products or unreacted reactants are simultaneously irradiated with infrared radiation through an infrared-transparent window and the reaction products are detected by infrared spectroscopy through an infrared-transparent window. 35. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23 or 26 wherein the reactor is a parallel batch reactor. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein the reactor is a parallel batch stirred autoclave reactor. 37. The method of claim 35 wherein the reactor is a parallel batch reactor comprising a plurality of agitated containers. 38. The method of claims 1, 5 or 11 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are metals or metal oxides. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein the reaction products or unreacted reactants are detected with a technique selected from the group consisting of infrared spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, laser spectroscopy, optical spectroscopy, and polarized light spectroscopy. 40. The method of claim 38 wherein the parallel flow reactor comprises the plurality of reaction channels in a monolithic support. 41. The method of claim 38 wherein the plurality of reaction channels are arranged in an array with a density of at least 9 reaction channels per square inch. 42. The method of claim 38 wherein the parallel flow reactor comprises the plurality of reaction channels arranged in an array in a monolithic support with a density of at least 9 reaction channels per square inch. 43. The method of claim 38 wherein the parallel reactor comprises twenty-four reaction channels and twenty-four catalyst candidates having differing compositions, each of the twenty-four catalyst compositions being in its own reaction channel. 44. The method of claim 38 wherein the parallel flow reactor is adapted to provide uniform flow of the reactant-containing stream through each of the plurality of reaction channels. 45. The method of claim 38 further comprising depositing a plurality of catalyst precursors to the plurality of reaction channels, each of the plurality of catalyst precursors being in its own reaction channel, and drying, and additionally, or alternatively, calcining the catalyst precursors to form the catalyst candidates. 46. The method of claims 1, 5, 11 or 38 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are formed by calcining catalyst precursors at different temperatures. 47. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are chemical conversion catalysts. 48. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are hydrocarbon conversion catalysts. 49. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are inorganic catalysts. 50. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are zeolites. 51. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are metallocenes. 52. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of catalyst candidates are supported catalysts. 53. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the one or more reactants are in the gas phase. 54. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the one or more reactants are in the liquid phase. 55. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts comprises ten or more candidate catalysts. 56. The method of claims 1, 5, 11, 23, 26 or 38 wherein the plurality of candidate catalysts are contacted with the one or more reactants under reaction conditions that include a temperature greater than 100.degree. C., and additionally, or alternatively, a pressure of greater than 1 bar. 