A method of designing a series of waveforms for current cycles generated by a waveform generator to control the waveforms of a welding process performed by an electric arc welder, where the waveforms are stored in a memory stack by work points. The method comprises: integrating the arc current of the waveform designed for each of the many work points to obtain an integrated amount; plotting the integrated amounts for each of the work points; creating a regression curve statistically matching the plotted amounts to reveal outlier amounts; selecting an outlier amount; and, changing the waveform corresponding to the selected outlier amount to decrease the deviation of the integrated amount of the changed waveform from the regression curve.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method of designing a series of waveforms for current cycles generated by a waveform generator to control the waveforms of a welding process performed by an electric arc welder, said waveforms being stored in a memory stack by work points, said method comprising: (a) integrating the arc current of the waveform designed for each of the many work points to obtain an integrated amount; (b) plotting said integrated amounts for each of said work points; (c) creating a regression curve statistically matching said plotted amounts to reveal outlier amounts; (d) selecting an outlier amount; and, (e) changing said waveform corresponding to said selected outlier amount to decrease the deviation of the integrated amount of said changed waveform from said regression curve. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said regression curve is a polynomial regression. 3. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said curve is a straight line. 4. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said curve is a straight line. 5. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said integrated amounts are each divided by the cycle time of said waveforms to provide an average current value for each waveform and including: (f) plotting said average current values for each of said work points; (g) creating a second regression curve statistically matching said plotted values to reveal outlier values; (h) selecting an outlier value; and, (i) changing said waveform corresponding to said selected outlier value to decrease the deviation of the average current value of said changed waveform from said second regression curve. 6. A method of designing a series of waveforms for current cycles generated by a waveform generator to control the waveforms of a welding process performed by an electric arc welder, said waveforms being stored in a memory stack by work points, said method comprising: (a) integrating the arc current of the waveform designed for each of many work points to obtain an integrated amount; (b) dividing each of said integrated amounts by the cycle time of said waveforms to provide an average current value for each waveform; (c) plotting said average current value for each of said work points; (d) creating a regression curve statistically matching said plotted values to reveal outlier values; (e) selecting an outlier value; and, (f) changing said waveform corresponding to said selected outlier value to decrease the deviation of the average current value of said changed waveform from said regression curve. 7. A method as defined in claim 6 wherein said regression curve is a polynomial regression. 8. A method as defined in claim 7 wherein said curve is a straight line. 9. A method as defined in claim 6 wherein said curve is a straight line. 10. A method of designing a series of waveforms for current cycles generated by a waveform generator at the output of an electric arc welder for a number of work points, such as wire feed speeds, said method comprising integrating the arc current of a waveform designed for each of said work points, plotting said integration amounts per work point identifying any of said integration amounts deviating from a curve statistically matching said amounts and manually changing said waveform corresponding to said deviated amount to smooth said series of waveforms. 11. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein said curve is created by polynomial regression. 12. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein said curve is a straight line. 13. A method as defined in claim 10, wherein said integrated amounts are each divided by the cycle time of said waveform to provide average current value, adding an off set constant current to said value to give a number and then squaring said number to give a calculated value, plotting said calculated values per work point, identifying calculated value deviating from a curve statistically matching said calculated values and changing said waveform corresponding to said deviated value to smooth said series of waveforms. 14. A method as defined in claim 13, wherein said curve is created by polynomial regression. 15. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein said curve is a straight line. 