A semiconductor workpiece holder used in electroplating systems for plating metal layers onto a semiconductor workpieces, and is of particular advantage in connection with plating copper onto semiconductor materials. The workpiece holder includes electrodes which have a contact face which bears against the workpiece and conducts current therebetween. The contact face is provided with a contact face outer contacting surface which is made from a contact face material similar similar to the workpiece plating material which is to be plated onto the semiconductor workpiece. The contact face can be formed by pre-conditioned an electrode contact using a plating metal which is similar to the plating materials which is to be plated onto the semiconductor workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for electroplating a metal onto a surface of a wafer pursuant to fabricating microelectronic components on the wafer, the apparatus comprising: a reactor comprising a chamber adapted to hold an electrolyte, and one or more contacts arranged to conduct electroplating power to the wafer through a respective wafer contact portion of each of the one or more contacts; the reactor including at least first and second modes of operation, the wafer contact portion of each of the one or more contacts being electroplated with a metal layer using the electrolyte in the first mode of operation, the wafer contact portion being electroplated in the absence of wafer contact, the wafer contact portion conducting electroplating power to the wafer to electroplate a metal from the electrolyte onto the surface of the wafer in the second mode of operation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the electrolyte is used to electroplate a metal that principally comprises copper during the first and second modes of operation. 3. A method for electroplating a metal onto a surface of a wafer pursuant to fabricating microelectronic components on the wafer, the method comprising: providing a reactor comprising a chamber adapted to hold an electrolyte, and one or more contacts arranged to conduct electroplating power to the wafer through a respective wafer contact portion of each of the one or more contacts; operating the reactor in at least first and second modes of operation, the wafer contact portion of each of the one or more contacts being electroplated with a metal layer using the electrolyte in the first mode of operation, the wafer contact portion being electroplated in the absence of wafer contact, the wafer contact portion conducting electroplating power to the wafer to electroplate a metal from the electrolyte onto the surface of the wafer in the second mode of operation. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the electrolyte is used to electroplate a metal that principally comprises copper during the first and second modes of operation. 