A method for forming a desired junction profile in a semiconductor device. At least one dopant is introduced into a semiconductor substrate. The at least one dopant is diffused in the semiconductor substrate through annealing the semiconductor substrate and the at least one dopant while simultaneously exposing the semiconductor substrate to an electric field.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for forming a desired junction profile in a semiconductor substrate, the device comprising: a means for annealing a semiconductor substrate in which at least one dopant has been diffused, the annealing means comprising at least one heat source; and means for producing a DC or AC electrical field and exposing the semiconductor substrate to the DC or AC electrical field simultaneous with the annealing 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the electrical field is an AC electrical field. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the electrical field is a AC electrical field. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the electrical field is a one-dimensional electrical field. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the electrical field is a DC electrical field. 6. The device according to claim 1, further comprising for diffusing the at least one dopant into the semiconductor substrate. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electrical field generating means generates a DC electric field at an upper surface of the semiconductor substrate and normal to the upper surface of the semiconductor substrate. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electrical field generating means comprises: an electrically conducting chuck on which the semiconductor substrate is arranged; means for biasing the chuck; at least one grid of an electrically conducting material arranged adjacent to at least a portion of at least one surface of the semiconductor substrate when the semiconductor substrate is arranged on the chuck; and means for biasing the a least one grid. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electrical field generating means comprises: an electrically conducting chuck on which the semiconductor substrate is arranged, means for biasing the chuck; at least one field source wafer arranged adjacent to at least a portion of at least one surface of the semiconductor substrate when the semiconductor substrate is arranged on the chuck; and means for biasing the at least one field source wafer. 10. The device according to claim 8, wherein the at least one grid is larger than an entire upper surface of the semiconductor substrate. 11. The device according to claim 8, wherein the grid is separated from the semiconductor substrate by a distance of about 100 nm to about 500 nm when the semiconductor substrate is arranged on the chuck. 12. The device according to claim 8, wherein the at least one grid comprises a plurality of individually biasable wires and wherein the grid biasing means individually biasing the wires. 13. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: means for reducing the strength of the electrical field on selected portions of the semiconductor substrate. 14. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electrical field has a strength of about 0.01 MV/cm to about 1.0 MV/cm at an upper surface of the semiconductor substrate. 15. The device according to claim 14, wherein the electrical field is an AC electrical field having a frequency of 60 HZ or less. 16. The device according to claim 14, further comprising: means for controlling wherein lateral diffusion of the at least one dopant with the electrical field. 17. The device according to claim 16, wherein the means for controlling lateral diffusion of the at least one dopant comprises: means for producing the electrical field at an upper surface of the semiconductor substrate and at an angle with respect to an upper surface of the semiconductor substrate. 18. The device according to claim 17, wherein the electrical field is produced at an angle of up to about 15.degree. with respect to the upper surface of the semiconductor substrate. 19. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: means for rotating the semiconductor substrate during the annealing and exposing to the electrical field. 20. The device according to claim 8, wherein the at least one heat source is arranged on a side of the semiconductor substrate opposite the grid. 21. The device according to claim 8, wherein the chuck comprises annular clamp for clamping the semiconductor substrate and a grid of an electrically conducting material connected to the annular clamp. 