An integrated robotic mechanism is disclosed for improving transport equipment, integrating an object movement with other functionalities such as alignment or identification. The disclosed integrated robot assembly can comprise a multiple end effector for moving a plurality of workpieces, a single end effector for moving a single workpiece, a rotation chuck incorporated on the robot body to provide alignment capability, and an optional identification subsystem for identify the object during transport. The present invention robot assembly can be used in a sorter or stocker equipment, in processing equipment, and a transfer system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot assembly for transferring a plurality of workpieces, comprising: a body; a multiple end effector comprising a first support to support multiple workpieces; wherein the multiple end effector is coupled to a first portion of the body and configured for moving between a first retracted position and a first extended position with respect to the first portion of the body; a single end effector comprising a second support to support a workpiece, wherein the first support and the second support support the workpieces in non-overlapping positions to allow the single end effector to access a workpiece supported by the first support; wherein the single end effector is coupled to a second portion of the body and configured for moving between a second retracted position and a second extended position with respect to the second portion of the body; wherein the second portion is coupled to the first portion and configured for moving between a down position and a plurality of up positions relative to the first portion; wherein the multiple end effector and the single end effector are coupled to the body to move as a unit when the body moves to face one or more workpiece stations, wherein the multiple end effector and the single end effector are configured so that the second portion moves between the up and down positions relative to the first portion without obstruction when the multiple end effector is in the first retracted position, wherein the first or the second extended position can reach into a workpiece station, wherein the up positions place the second support into the first support for the single end effector to access a workpiece supported by the first support, and wherein the down position places the single end effector away from the multiple end effector so that the multiple end effector moves between the first retracted position and the first extended position without obstruction. 2. A robot assembly as in claim 1 further comprising a rotating chuck disposed on the second portion for rotating workpiece in the vicinity of the down position. 3. A robot assembly as in claim 2 further comprising an aligning/reading mechanism disposed on the robot assembly for reading an identification mark of a workpiece on the rotating chuck. 4. A robot assembly as in claim 1 wherein the first support supports multiple workpieces from the side edges and the second support supports a workpiece from the bottom. 5. A robot assembly as in claim 1 wherein the second portion when moving from the down position to the up position moves the single end effector linearly to access the multiple workpieces of the multiple end effector sequentially from the bottom up. 6. A robot assembly as in claim 1 wherein the single end effector can transfer a workpiece between the multiple end effector and a workpiece station. 7. A robot assembly for transferring a plurality of workpieces, comprising: a body; a first support for supporting multiple workpieces, the first support coupled to a first portion of the body and configured for accepting a plurality of workpieces from a first workpiece station; and a second support for supporting a workpiece, the second support coupled to second portion of the body and configured for transferring a workpiece between the first support and a second workpiece station; wherein the first portion and the second portion are coupled to the body to move as a unit when the body moves to face the first or second workpiece station. 8. A robot assembly as in claim 7 wherein the second support is configured to accept a workpiece from the first support and is configured to transfer the workpiece from the second support to the second workpiece station. 9. A robot assembly as in claim 7 further comprising an alignment mechanism coupled to the second portion of the body and configured to align the workpiece during the transfer between the first support and the second workpiece station. 10. A robot assembly as in claim 7 further comprising an aligning/reading mechanism coupled to the second portion of the body and configured to identify the workpiece during the transfer between the first support and the second workpiece station. 11. A robot assembly as in claim 7 wherein the first support is configured for transferring multiple workpieces from or to a workpiece station and the second support is configured to retrieve a workpiece in the first support and move to an aligner for aligning the retrieved workpieces according to a predetermined alignment mark. 12. A method for transferring a plurality of workpieces between a plurality of workpiece stations through a robot assembly comprising a multiple end effector and a single end effector coupled to a body to move as a unit for facing the plurality of workpiece stations, the method comprising: transferring simultaneously multiple workpieces of the plurality of workpieces between the robot assembly and a workpiece station of the plurality of workpiece stations by the multiple end effector; and transferring each workpiece of the multiple workpieces sequentially between the multiple end effector and one or more workpiece stations of the plurality of workpiece stations by the single end effector. 13. A method as in claim 12 wherein transferring each workpiece of the multiple workpieces further comprises aligning the workpiece to an alignment mark. 14. A method as in claim 12 wherein transferring each workpiece further comprises identifying the workpiece by reading an ID mark. 15. A method as in claim 12 wherein transferring multiple workpieces comprises retrieving the multiple workpieces from a workpiece station or placing the multiple workpieces to a workpiece station. 16. A method as in claim 12 wherein transferring each workpiece comprises retrieving the each workpiece from the multiple workpieces within the robot assembly and placing the each workpiece to a workpiece station. 17. A method as in claim 12 wherein transferring each workpiece comprises retrieving the each workpiece from a workpiece station and adding the each workpiece to the multiple workpieces within the robot assembly. 18. A method as in claim 12 wherein transferring each workpiece of the multiple workpieces comprises sorting the workpieces from the multiple workpieces. 