A process of cleaning of objects that relate to semiconductor fabrication processes, such as, for example, conductive paste screening in the production of multilayer ceramic substrates and composite solder paste by stencil printing in electronic circuit assembly. Specifically, the process removes a metal/polymer composite paste from screening masks and associated paste making and processing equipment used in printing conductive metal pattern onto ceramic green sheet in the fabrication of semiconductor packaging substrates. The process also cleans solder paste residue from stencil printing equipment used in electronic module assembly surface mount technology for SMT discretes, solder column attachment, and BGA (Ball Grid Array) attachment on ceramic chip carrier or for screening solder paste onto printed circuit board. More particularly, paste residue is cleaned from metal, ceramic, and plastic substrates by a non-alkaline semi-aqueous cleaning method employing high boiling propylene glycol alkyl ether or mixtures of propylene glycol alkyl ether and propylene glycol solvents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning a conductive or soldering paste from at least one object used in the fabrication of semiconductor packaging substrates, organic chip carriers or cards, the method comprising the steps of: immersing said object in a solvent consisting of at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether and at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether; and rinsing said object in water, thereby cleaning said paste from said object; wherein said object is selected from a group consisting of screening mask, paste processing parts used in the production of ceramic substrates or plastic substrates, screen stencils, stencil printing equipment, paste dispense equipment, paste making equipment, paste processing equipment, metal substrate, ceramic substrate and plastic substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether has a general formula: where R is CH.sub.3, C.sub.2 H.sub.5, C.sub.3 H.sub.7 or C.sub.4 H.sub.9, and n is 2, and said at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether has a general formula: where R is CH.sub.3, C.sub.2 H.sub.5, C.sub.3 H.sub.7 or C.sub.4 H.sub.9, and n is 3. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether and said at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether are partially or completely soluble in water. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether and said at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether are selected from a group consisting of di-propylene-glycol methylether, tri-propylene-glycol methyl-ether, and mixtures thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said tripropylene glycol alkyl ether is tri-propylene-glycol methyl-ether in admixture with tri-propylene-glycol butyl-ether. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said paste is selected from a group consisting of a polymer/filler composite of metal, a solvent vehicle and a surfactant/dispersant, thickening agent, antioxidant, and corrosion inhibitor. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said paste is a conductive screening paste comprising a metal filler selected from a group consisting of Ag, Au, Mo, W, Cu and Cu/Ni; a cellulosic polymer binder; a solvent carrier; and a dispersing agent. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said paste is a conductive screening paste having at least one metal filler selected from a group consisting of Pb--Sn, Bi--Sn, Pb--In, Ag, Au, Mo, W, Cu and Cu/Ni. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said paste comprises at least one organic binder. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said paste is a polymer/metal composite paste. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether and said at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether is selected from the group consisting of dipropyleneglycol methylether (DPM), tripropyleneglycol methylether (TPM), dipropyleneglycol ethylener, tripropyleneglyeol eneglyether, trproplyleneglycol isopropylether, dipropyleneglycol isopropylether, dipropyleneglycol n-butylether (DpnB), and tripropyleneglycol n-butylether (TpnB). 12. The method of claim 8, wherein said conductive screening paste is at least one solder paste comprising Pb--Sn, Bi--Sn or Pb--In alloy as the metal filler, at least one fluxing agent and a solvent, and optionally a polymer binder. 13. A method for cleaning a conductive or soldering paste from at least one object used in the fabrication of semiconductor packaging substrates, organic chip carriers or cards, the method comprising the steps of: (a) pre-heating a solvent consisting of at least one dipropylene glycol alkyl ether and at least one tripropylene glycol alkyl ether in a first tank having at least one ultrasonic bath, wherein said solvent is pre-heated to a temperature of about 45 to about 80.degree. C., (b) immersing said object in said pre-heated solvent and subjecting said object to ultrasonic agitation for a time of about 1 to about 10 min, and (c) transferring said object to a second tank having water pre-heated to a temperature of about 45 to about 70.degree. C., and subjecting said object to at least one of immersion spray and ultrasonic agitation, thereby cleaning said paste from said object; wherein said object is selected from a group consisting of screening mask, paste processing parts used in the production of ceramic substrates or plastic substrates, screen stencils, stencil printing equipment, paste dispense equipment, paste making equipment, paste processing equipment, metal substrate, ceramic substrate and plastic substrate. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein in step (c) said object is subjected to said at least one of immersion spray and ultrasonic agitation, for a time of about 30 sec to about 120 sec. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising, after step (c), the step of transferring said object from said second tank to at least one third tank having water and subjecting said object to at least one of spray rinsing and ultrasonic agitation. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of filtering said solvent to remove particulate material. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein said second tank having water can be used until surface tension exceeds about 50 dynes/cm. 18. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of discharging said water from said second tank. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said object is subjected to at least one of spray rinsing and ultrasonic agitation, for a time of about 30 sec to about 120 sec. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of distilling said solvent to recover said solvent for reuse. 