A recoil dissipation apparatus may include a linear roller rail and a roller block that is translatable on the linear roller rail with only one degree of freedom. A gear rack may be located adjacent the linear roller rail. A barrel clamp may be fixed to the roller block. A pinion gear may engage the gear rack. The pinion gear may be fixed on a shaft. The shaft may have a rotary viscous damper fixed at one end. The recoil force from a barrel fixed in the barrel clamp may cause translation of the roller block and dissipation of the recoil force by the rotary viscous damper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A recoil dissipation apparatus, comprising: a linear roller rail; a roller block translatable on the linear roller rail with only one degree of freedom; a rack adjacent the linear roller rail; a barrel clamp fixed to the roller block; a pinion gear engaged with the rack and fixed on a shaft; and a rotary viscous damper fixed to the shaft. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a roller block buffer at one end of the linear roller rail and a barrel clamp lock at another end of the linear roller rail. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the barrel clamp lock comprises a magnet. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the roller block buffer includes a spring. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein one end of the roller block includes a buffer plate for contacting the roller block buffer. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the barrel clamp comprises a front barrel fixture and a rear barrel fixture. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the front and rear barrel fixtures are separated by a gap and the shaft is disposed in the gap. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the pinion gear and the rotary viscous damper are disposed on opposite sides of the barrel clamp. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a mount for connecting the apparatus to a second apparatus. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the mount is located on an underside of the linear roller rail. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the mount includes a pair of grabbers for connecting to a MIL-STD-1913 rail. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the second apparatus is a robot. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotary viscous damper includes a rotor fixed to the shaft, a stationary housing, and a fluid inside the housing that is sheared as the rotor rotates. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the fluid comprises silicone. 