An automated semiconductor processing system has an indexer bay perpendicularly aligned with a process bay within a clean air enclosure. An indexer in the indexer bay provides stocking or storage for work in progress semiconductor wafers. Process chambers are located in the process bay: A process robot moves between the indexer bay and process bay to carry semi-conductor wafers to and from the process chambers. The process robot has a robot arm vertically moveable along a lift rail. Semiconductor wafers are carried offset from the robot arm, to better avoid contamination. The automated system is compact and requires less clean room floor space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing one or more wafers contained within a closed container, comprising the steps of: opening the container; removing the wafers from the container; transferring the wafers into a carrier, while maintaining the wafers in a substantially horizontal orientation; pivoting the carrier so that the wafers are moved into a non-horizontal orientation; moving the carrier to a processor; placing the carrier into the processor; rotating the carrier within the processor: and spraying a process liquid onto the wafers in the rotating carrier. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of unsealing the container by removing a door of the container. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of lifting the container from a first level up to a second level, before unsealing the container. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of docking the container at a docking station. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of engaging the carrier with a robot arm and moving the carrier on the robot arm. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of moving the robot arm to engage fingers on the robot arm into the carrier. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of scanning one or more of the wafers as they are removed from the container and transferred into the carrier. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of pre-aligning one or more of the wafers after they are removed from the container and before they are transferred into the carrier. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafers are transferred into the carrier by moving the wafers in a first direction, and the carrier is moved to a processor by moving the carrier in a second direction, perpendicular to the first direction. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of processing the wafers within the processor. 11. A method for handling wafers within a processing system having a front end and a back end, with the wafers provided within a closed container comprising the steps of: moving the closed container horizontally through a plurality of container positions, in a first direction, towards the back end of the processing system with the plurality of container positions at a first elevation; lifting the closed container vertically to a second elevation; moving the closed container in a second direction, opposite to the first direction, and toward the front end of the processing system, to a container opening position at the second elevation; opening the container by removing a door of the container; removing wafers from the container; carrying the wafers in a third direction, perpendicular to the first direction; and moving the wafers in the first direction, to place the wafers into a processor within the processing systems; rotating the wafers; and spraying the wafers with a process liquid. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: placing the wafers into a carrier after they are removed from the container; and reorienting the carrier to move the wafers from a horizontal position into a non-horizontal position. 13. A method for handling wafers within a processing system, with the wafers provided in horizontal orientation within a closed container, comprising the steps of: moving the closed container horizontally through a plurality of container positions, in a first direction, with the plurality of container positions at a first elevation; lifting the closed container vertically to a second elevation; moving the closed container in a second direction, opposite to the first direction, to a container opening position at the second elevation; opening the container by removing a door of the container; removing wafers from the container; placing the wafers into a carrier, with wafers remaining in the horizontal orientation; turning the carrier to reorient the wafers into a non-horizontal orientation; moving the carrier containing the wafers in a third direction, perpendicular to the first direction; placing the carrier into a rotor in a processor within the processing systems; rotating the wafers in the rotor; and spraying the wafers with a process liquid. 14. A method for processing one or more wafers contained within a closed container, comprising the steps of: docking the container at a docking station; opening the container; removing the wafers from the container; transferring the wafers into a carrier, by moving the wafers in a first direction, while maintaining the wafers in a substantially horizontal orientation; pivoting the carrier so that the wafers are moved into a non-horizontal orientation; moving the carrier in a second direction, perpendicular to the first direction, to a processor; placing the carrier into the processor; rotating the carrier within the processor; and spraying a process liquid onto the wafers in the rotating carrier. 