A method for creating a hot melt foamed form for an air induction system. A block of thermal mastic elastomer is melted and blended with nitrogen gas to create a foamed material. The foamed material is applied by robotic techniques over a base material on the surface of a polypropylene glass lower shell. After the foamed material cures, a polypropylene glass cover is applied over the foamed material form to create an air tight dust/water seal. The cover does not adhere to the cured foamed material and is removable when service is necessary. The foam material can also be dispensed into a mold and then transferred to the base, allowing for changes in the shape and profile of the foamed material. This method can also be employed to create an isolation pad on an air induction system to absorb engine shock. The thermal mastic elastomer can also be employed to create a seal between the cover neck of an air induction assembly and a mass air flow sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming an elastomeric pad comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; applying said liquid form to a surface of an air induction assembly to create said elastomeric pad; and applying a non-foamed base material to said surface of said air induction assembly prior to the step of applying said liquid form. 2. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said surface is a bracket of said air induction assembly. 3. A method for forming an elastomeric pad comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; applying said liquid form to a bracket of said an air induction assembly to create said elastomeric pad; and utilizing said elastomeric pad to prevent contact between said bracket and a vehicle mounting point. 4. The method as recited in claim 3 further comprising the step of blending a gas into said liquid form to form a foamed composition. 5. The method as recited in claim 4 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 6. The method as recited in claim 3 further comprising the step of curing said elastomeric pad. 7. A method for forming an elastomeric pad comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; applying said liquid form to a surface of an air induction assembly to create said elastomeric pad; an mixing a non-foamed base material with said liquid form prior to the step of applying said liquid form to said surface. 8. A method for forming an elastomeric pad comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; blending a gas into said liquid form to form a foamed composition; applying a non-foamed base material to a bracket of said air induction assembly; applying said foamed composition to said bracket of an air induction assembly to create said elastomeric pad; and curing said elastomeric pad. 9. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 10. The method as recited in claim 8 further including the step of utilizing said elastomeric pad to prevent contact between said bracket and a vehicle mounting point. 11. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein said non-foamed base material is a thermal mastic blend material. 12. A method for forming an elastomeric pad comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; blending a gas into said liquid form to form a foamed composition; mixing a non-foamed base material with said foamed composition; applying said foamed composition with said non-foamed base material to a bracket of an air induction assembly to create said elastomeric pad; and curing said elastomeric pad. 13. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 14. The method as recited in claim 12 further including the step of preventing contact between said bracket and a vehicle mounting point. 15. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein said non-foamed base material is a thermal mastic blend material. 16. The method as recited in claim 12 further comprising the steps of dispensing said foamed composition into a mold and removing said foamed composition from said mold. 