A method and system for the processing of one or more wafers in a process tool is provided, the method comprising subjecting the one or more wafer in a reaction chamber to a process, generating an inhibit next load flag on predefined conditions, the inhibit next load flag not effecting already started processing of a wafer. Prior to the start of the processing of a wafer, a check is performed to see if an inhibit next load flag has been set. When upon checking it has been found that an inhibit next load has been set, the start of the process in the reaction chamber is prohibited. The method further includes providing pre-programmed recovery procedures, such that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the to be processed wafer of which the start of the processing is prohibited ends in a defined state such that the tool can be used for further processing.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for the processing of wafers in a process tool comprising: subjecting one or more wafers in a reaction chamber in the process tool to a process; performing one or more of the following steps in a control computer coupled to the process tool: a) setting an inhibit next load flag if predefined conditions occur in the process tool or by human intervention or upon input from a host computer, the inhibit next load flag not effecting the one or more wafers for which processing has started; b) checking, prior to the start of the processing of a to be processed wafer, to see if an inhibit-next load flag has been set; c) prohibiting to start processing, in the reaction chamber, of the to be processed wafer, if an inhibit next load flag has been set; and d) providing pre-programmed recovery procedures, such that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the to be processed wafer of which the start of the processing is prohibited ends in a defined state such that the tool can be used for further processing. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures includes the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to reset the inhibit next load flag if said predetermined condition is no longer true. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to overrule the inhibit next load flag for the immediate next to be processed wafer. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the predefined condition is based on an alarm level of a real time parameter, the real time parameter representing real time conditions in the process tool. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the predefined condition is based on an expression comprising one or more parameters out of a collection of a plurality of real time parameters, representing real time conditions in the process tool, and analysis results of a wafer processed prior to the to be processed wafer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by an operator command. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by a higher level controller, connected to the tool controller. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the to be processed wafers are supplied to the processing tool in cassettes and the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprising initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed wafers that has been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited comprises transferring said wafers to the cassette. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprises initiating a hold unload timer during which no automated response to the inhibit next load flag is started. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of initiating a hold unload timer further comprises allowing operator intervention when the hold unload timer is operational. 13. A process tool for processing one or more wafers supplied, comprising: at least one reaction chamber for subjecting the one or more wafers to a process; a tool controller having a processor and memory and operable to execute a process control system program, the process control system program operable to monitor and control tool parameters; and wherein the tool controller is operable to generate an inhibit next load flag upon predefined inputs and, when the inhibit next load object is generated prior to the start of the processing of a to be processed wafer, prohibit the start of the processing of the to be processed wafer in the reaction chamber, and to provide pre-programmed recovery procedures such that after execution of a preprogrammed recovery procedure the to be processed wafer ends in a defined state such that the tool can be used for further processing. 14. The process tool of claim 13, wherein the tool controller comprises one or more subcontrollers, connected to the tool controller, the one or more sub-controllers performing part of the tasks of the tool controller. 15. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the pre-programmed recovery procedures includes operator selectable recovery procedures. 16. The process tool of claim 15 wherein the operator selectable recovery procedures includes resetting the inhibit next load flag if said predetermined condition is no longer true. 17. The process tool of claim 15 wherein operator selectable recovery procedures includes overruling the inhibit next load flag for the immediate next to be processed wafer. 18. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the predefined condition is based on an alarm level of a real time parameter, the real time parameter representing real time conditions in the process tool. 19. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the predefined condition is based on an expression comprising one or more parameters out of a collection of a plurality of real time parameters, representing real time conditions in the process tool, and analysis results of a wafer processed prior to the to be processed wafer. 20. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by an operator command. 21. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by a higher level controller, connected to the tool controller. 22. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the to be processed wafers are supplied to the processing tool in cassettes and pre-programmed recovery procedures comprising initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed wafers that have been removed from a cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited. 23. The process tool of claim 22 wherein the automatic transfer of to be processed wafers that have been removed from the cassette comprises transferring the to be processed wafers to the cassette. 24. The process tool of claim 13 wherein the pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprise initiating a hold unload timer during which no automated response to the inhibit next load flag is started. 25. The process tool of claim 24 wherein initiating the hold unload timer further comprises allowing operator intervention when the hold unload timer is operational. 26. A method for the batch-wise processing of wafers in a process tool comprising: subjecting wafers batch-wise to a process in a reaction chamber in the process tool; performing one or more of the following steps in a control computer coupled to the process tool: a) setting an inhibit next load flag on predefined conditions, the inhibit next load flag not effecting the processing of a wafer batch of which the processing has already started; c) checking, prior to the start of the processing of a to be processed wafer batch, to see if an inhibit-next load flag has been set; d) prohibiting to start processing, in the reaction chamber, of the to be processed wafer batch, if an inhibit next load flag has been set; and e) providing pre-programmed recovery procedures, such that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the to be processed wafer batch of which the start of the processing is prohibited ends in a defined state such that the process tool can be used for further processing. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures includes the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to reset the inhibit next load flag if said predetermined condition is no longer true. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to overrule the inhibit next load flag for the immediate next to be processed wafer batch. 30. The method of claim 26 wherein the predefined condition is based on an alarm level of a real time parameter, the real time parameter representing real time conditions in the process tool. 31. The method of claim 26 wherein the predefined condition is based on an expression comprising one or more parameters out of a collection of a plurality of real time parameters, representing real time conditions in the process tool, and analysis results of a wafer processed prior to the to be processed wafer. 32. The method of claim 26 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by an operator command. 33. The method of claim 26 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by a higher level controller, connected to the tool controller. 34. The method of claim 26 wherein the to be processed wafer batch are supplied to the processing tool in one or more cassettes and the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprising initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed wafer batch, or part thereof, to the extent that it has been removed from the one or more cassettes and of which the start of the processing is prohibited. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the step of initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed wafer batch, or part thereof, that has been removed from the one or more cassettes and of which the start of the processing is prohibited comprises transferring said wafer batch or part thereof to the one or more cassettes. 36. The method of claim 34 wherein during processing in the process tool a wafer batch is sequentially subjected to a first process in a first reaction chamber and a second process in a second reaction chamber and prior to completion of the first process in the first reaction chamber an inhibit next load flag is set for the second reaction chamber, the step of initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed wafer batch or part thereof to the extent that it has been removed from the one or more cassettes and of which the start of the processing is prohibited comprises transferring the wafer batch after completion of the first process to a wafer boat of the second process chamber. 37. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprises initiating a hold unload timer during which no automated response to the inhibit next load flag is started. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of initiating a hold unload timer further comprises allowing operator intervention when the hold unload timer is operational. 39. A process tool for the batch-wise processing of wafers, comprising: at least one reaction chamber for processing batches of wafers; a tool controller having a processor and memory and operable to execute a process control system program, the process control system program operable to monitor and control tool parameters; and wherein the tool controller is operable to generate an inhibit next load object upon predefined inputs and, when the inhibit next load object is generated prior to the start of the processing of a to be processed batch of wafers, to prohibit the start of the processing of the to be processed batch of wafers, and to provide pre-programmed recovery procedures so that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the to be processed batch of wafers ends in a defined state such that the tool can be used for further processing. 40. The process tool of claim 39, wherein the tool controller comprises one or more subcontrollers, connected to the tool controller, the one or more sub-controllers performing part of the tasks of the tool controller. 41. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the pre-programmed recovery procedures includes operator selectable recovery procedures. 42. The process tool of claim 41 wherein the operator selectable recovery procedures include resetting the inhibit next load flag if the predetermined condition is no longer true. 43. The process tool of claim 41 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to overrule the inhibit next load flag for the immediate next to be processed wafer batch. 44. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the predefined condition is based on an alarm level of a real time parameter, the real time parameter representing real time conditions in the process tool. 45. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the predefined condition is based on an expression comprising one or more parameters out of a collection of a plurality of real time parameters, representing real time conditions in the process tool, and analysis results of a wafer processed prior to the to be processed wafer. 46. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by an operator command. 47. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by a higher level controller, connected to the tool controller. 48. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the to be processed batch of wafers are supplied to the processing tool in cassettes and pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprising initiating an automatic transfer of the to be processed batch of wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited. 49. The process tool of claim 48 wherein the automatic transfer of the to be processed batch of wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited comprises transferring the to be processed batch of wafers to the cassette. 50. The process tool of claim 39 wherein the pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprises initiating a hold unload timer during which no automated response to the inhibit next load flag is started. 51. The process tool of claim 50 wherein initiating the hold unload timer further comprises allowing operator intervention when the hold unload timer is operational. 52. A method for the processing of one or more wafers in a process tool comprising: subjecting the one or more wafers in a reaction chamber to a process; providing a software implemented "confirmation flag"; as a default, setting the confirmation flag in a "false" state for the one or more to be processed wafers; examining in a wafer inspection tool a wafer previously processed in said reaction chamber and comparing the results against acceptance criteria; setting the confirmation flag to a "true" state if the results are within the acceptance criteria and setting or leaving said confirmation flag to a "false" state when the results are outside the acceptance criteria; checking, prior to the start of the processing of one or more to be processed wafers, to see if the confirmation flag is in a "true" state; prohibiting the start of the processing of the one or more to be processed wafers if the confirmation flag is in a "false" state. 53. The method of claim 52 wherein a software implemented "inhibit next load flag" is provided, comprising: setting the inhibit next load flag on predefined conditions, the inhibit next load flag not effecting already started processing; checking, prior to the start of the processing of one or more to be processed wafers, to see if the inhibit next load flag is set; prohibiting the start of the processing of the one or more to be processed wafers if the inhibit next load flag is set; providing pre-programmed recovery procedures, such that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the to be processed wafers of which the start of the processing is prohibited end in a defined state such that the process tool can be used for further processing. 54. The method according to claim 52, wherein the examination of the previously processed wafer, is performed in a wafer inspection tool outside of the process tool and the results are sent back to the process tool. 55. The method of claim 53 wherein the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures includes the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures. 56. The method of claim 55 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to reset the inhibit next load flag if said predetermined condition is no longer true. 57. The method of claim 55 wherein the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes the step of allowing an operator to overrule the inhibit next load flag for the immediate next to be processed wafer. 58. The method of claim 53 wherein the predefined condition is based on an alarm level of a real time parameter, the real time parameter representing real time conditions in the process tool. 59. The method of claim 53 wherein the predefined condition is based on an expression comprising one or more parameters out of a collection of a plurality of real time parameters, representing real time conditions in the process tool, and analysis results of a wafer processed prior to the to be processed wafer. 60. The method of claim 53 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by an operator command. 61. The method of claim 53 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by a higher level controller, connected to the tool controller. 62. The method of claim 53 wherein the wafer are supplied to the processing tool in cassettes and the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprising initiating an automatic transfer of one or more to be processed wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited. 63. The method of claim 62 wherein the step of initiating an automatic transfer of one or more to be processed wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited comprises transferring the one or more to be processed wafers to the cassette. 64. The method of claim 53 wherein the step of providing pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprises initiating a hold unload timer during which no automated response to the inhibit next load flag is started. 65. The method of claim 64 wherein the step of initiating a hold unload timer further comprises allowing operator intervention when the hold unload timer is operational. 66. A process tool for the processing of one or more wafers comprising: at least one reactor chamber for processing one or more wafers; a system controller having a processor and memory and operable to execute a process control system program and to monitor and control processing tool parameters; and a wafer inspection station coupled to the processing tool and coupled to the system controller, the wafer inspection station operable to examine a wafer previously processed in the reaction chamber, the wafer inspection station to generate wafer data and send the wafer data to the system controller; and wherein the system controller is operable to compare the wafer data against predefined limits and set a confirmation flag in a "true" state when the wafer data are within the predefined limits and set or leave the confirmation flag in a "false" state when the wafer data are outside the predefined limits and to prohibit the start of the processing of the one or more to be processed wafers when the confirmation flag is in a false state. 67. The process tool of claim 66, wherein the system controller is operable to set an inhibit next load flag on predefined inputs the inhibit next load flag not effecting already started processing and, when the inhibit next load flag is set prior to the start of subjecting the wafer in the reaction chamber to a process, to prohibit the start of processing, and to provide pre-programmed recovery procedures so that after execution of a pre-programmed recovery procedure the one or more to be processed wafers ends in a defined state such that the tool can be used for further processing. 68. The process tool of claim 66, wherein the system controller comprises one or more subcontrollers, connected to the system controller, the one or more sub-controllers performing part of the tasks of the tool controller. 69. The process tool of claim 67 wherein providing pre-programmed recovery procedures includes the step of providing operator selectable recovery procedures. 70. The process tool of claim 69 wherein providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes resetting the inhibit next load flag if the predetermined condition is no longer true. 71. The process tool of claim 69 wherein providing operator selectable recovery procedures includes overruling the inhibit next load flag for the immediate next to be processed wafer. 72. The process tool of claim 67 wherein the predefined condition is based on an alarm level of a real time parameter, the real time parameter representing real time conditions in the process tool. 73. The process tool of claim 67 wherein the predefined condition is based on an expression comprising one or more parameters out of a collection of a plurality of real time parameters, representing real time conditions in the process tool, and analysis results of a wafer processed prior to the to be processed wafer. 74. The process tool of claim 67 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by an operator command. 75. The process tool of claim 67 wherein the predefined condition is a "set inhibit next load flag" command, initiated by a higher level controller, connected to the tool controller. 76. The process tool of claim 67 wherein the one or more to be processed wafers are supplied to the process tool in cassettes and pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprising initiating an automatic transfer of the one or more to be processed wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited. 77. The process tool of claim 76 wherein an automatic transfer of the one or more to be processed wafers that have been removed from the cassette and of which the start of the processing is prohibited comprises transferring the one or more to be processed wafers to the cassette. 78. The process tool of claim 67 wherein the pre-programmed recovery procedures further comprises initiating a hold unload timer during which no automated response to the inhibit next load flag is started. 79. The process tool of claim 78 wherein initiating the hold unload timer further comprises allowing operator intervention when the hold unload timer is operational. 