A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing semiconductor wafers in an enclosed working space of a processing system, comprising the steps of: (a) providing the wafers to the processing system with the wafers within a sealed container, and with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; (b) placing the sealed container on a shelf at a docking station of the processing system; (c) opening the container at the docking station causing the interior of the container to be in fluid communication with the working space of the processing system, by moving a panel member away from the container; (d) pivoting the wafers from the horizontal orientation into a near vertical orientation; (e) moving the wafers linearly to a process chamber; (f) placing the wafers into the process chamber, with the wafers in a near vertical orientation in the process chamber; (g) closing the process chamber; (h) spinning the wafers in the process chamber; and (i) centrifugally processing the wafers by spraying the spinning wafers with a process liquid. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of holding the wafers in a carrier while spinning the wafers in the process chamber. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the carrier has side walls including receiving receptacles and with the wafers supported in the receiving receptacles. 4. A method for processing semiconductor articles, comprising the steps of: moving a sealed container, holding the articles in a horizontal orientation, to an interface port of a processing system; unsealing the container to provide access to the articles in the container; moving the articles from the horizontal orientation into a vertical orientation, with the articles supported in a carrier; moving the articles in the carrier into a process chamber; spinning the articles in the carrier in the process chamber; spraying a process liquid towards the spinning carrier supporting the articles; withdrawing the articles in the carrier from the process chamber; moving the articles back into the horizontal orientation; placing the articles back into a container; sealing the container; and removing the container from the interface port. 5. The method of claim 4 where the step of moving the articles from the horizontal orientation into a vertical orientation, and the step of moving the articles back into the horizontal orientation, are performed by pivoting the articles. 6. A method for processing semiconductor articles comprising the steps of: providing the articles in a horizontal orientation in a container; removing the articles from the container and pivoting the articles from a horizontal orientation into a vertical orientation; placing the articles on a carriage; moving the carriage linearly with the articles remaining in the vertical orientation, to place the articles into a process chamber; spinning the articles in the process chamber; and applying a process liquid onto the spinning articles, to centrifugally process the articles. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the articles are placed into a carrier on the carriage, with the carrier adapted for spinning within the process chamber. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of removing the articles from the process chamber, placing the articles into a second process chamber, further processing the articles in the second process chamber, and then returning the articles to a container. 9. A method for processing semiconductor wafers in an automated processing system, comprising the steps of: (a) providing the wafers to the processing system with the wafers within a closed container, and with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; (b) opening the container to provide access to the wafers in the container; (c) moving the wafers from the horizontal orientation into a near vertical orientation, with the wafers supported in a carrier; (d) moving the carrier holding the wafers to a process chamber; (e) placing the carrier holding the wafers into the process chamber, with the wafers in a near vertical orientation in the process chamber; (f) spinning the carrier holding the wafers within the process chamber; (g) centrifugally processing the wafers by spraying the spinning wafers with a process liquid; (h) withdrawing the carrier holding the wafers from the process chamber; (i) moving the carrier holding the wafers back into the horizontal orientation; and (j) placing the articles back into a container; and (k) closing the container. 