An autonomous controller for a vehicle. The controller has a processor configured to receive position signals from position sensors and to generate operation control signals defining an updated travel path for the vehicle. The controller has a programmable interface providing communication among the position sensors, the operation control mechanisms, and the processor. The controller is configured to normalize inputs to the processor from the position sensors and to generate compatible operation control signals applied as the inputs to the operation control mechanisms. The processor and the programmable interface define a self-contained unit configurable for operation with a variety of different remote sensors and different remote operation control mechanisms.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An autonomous controller for a vehicle, comprising: a processor configured to receive position signals from position sensors and to generate operation control signals defining an updated travel path for the vehicle, and a programmable interface providing communication among the position sensors, operation control mechanisms, and the processor, and configured to normalize inputs to the processor from the position sensors and to generate compatible operation control signals applied as the inputs to the operation control mechanisms; and the processor and the programmable interface comprising a self-contained unit configurable for operation with a variety of different sensors and different operation control mechanisms. 2. The controller of claim 1, comprising: said processor configured to receive one or more object sensors configured to generate object signals indicative of objects with respect to a travel path of the vehicle; and said processor configured to receive the object signals from the object sensors, to identify from the object signals objects which are stationary and objects which are moving with respect to the travel path of the vehicle, and to generate operation control signals defining said updated travel path taking into consideration the identified stationary and moving objects and the position signals. 3. The controller of claim 2, wherein the programmable interface is configured to provide communication among the position sensors, the object sensors, the operation control mechanisms, and the processor, and is configured to normalize inputs to the processor from the object sensors. 4. The controller of claim 2, wherein the object sensors comprise a light detection and ranging device configured to produce a beam of radiation and detect reflection of the beam from the objects. 5. The controller of claim 2, wherein the object sensors comprise a laser radar device configured to produce a beam of radiation and detect a reflection at the wavelength of the beam from the objects. 6. The controller of claim 2, wherein the object sensors comprise a camera configured to provide an image of the travel path from which objects are identified. 7. The controller of claim 2, wherein said processor is configured to determine an avoidance path by predicting a likelihood of collision with the stationary or moving objects, wherein: as a first action, a vehicle's velocity is modified along the travel path to determine if there exists a first solution for the avoidance path; as a second action upon no existence of the first solution, a swerving maneuver in a sliding mode algorithm is implemented along the travel path to determine if there exists a second solution for the avoidance path; and as a third action upon no existence of the first solution or the second solution, the vehicle is stopped. 8. The controller of claim 7, wherein said processor is configured to determine said avoidance path based on a virtual path analysis utilizing a sliding mode program to predict an optimum trajectory for avoidance of the stationary and moving objects, wherein said sliding mode analysis is programmed to generate a steering command based on 1) a moving point (x*(s), y*(s)) of the vehicle from the travel path, 2) a distance s(t) of the vehicle from the travel path, and 3) an error vector E(t) of an actual vehicle position (x(t), y(t)) from the moving point (x*(s(t)), y*(s(t))), wherein the error vector E(t) accommodates time dependent non-linear factors capable of causing the vehicle to deviate from the travel path or deviate from an approach path to the travel path. 9. The controller of claim 1, further comprising: a program interface configured to enter programming instructions to the programmable interface. 10. The controller of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to provide at least one of direction and speed control instructions to the operation control mechanisms in a drive by wire format whereby the processor electrically controls at least one of engine throttling, vehicle steering, and vehicle braking. 11. The controller of claim 1, further comprising: a map storage area in the processor, configured to store logical maps of waypoints along the travel path, said logical map including at least one of directions from one waypoint to another, geospatial coordinates of the waypoints, intersections of roads along a travel path for the vehicle, and times associated with traveling between different waypoints. 12. The controller of claim 11, wherein the processor is programmed with an obstacle identification algorithm to receive object signals representative of objects in order to determine if the objects in a vicinity of the vehicle are said waypoints by comparison of an object position to the geospatial coordinates of the waypoints. 13. The controller of claim 1, wherein the position sensor comprises at least one of a global positioning system device or an inertial navigation system. 14. The controller of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises: a variable structure observer configured to identify a position, velocity, and geometry of objects in a vicinity of the vehicle, predict the position and velocity of the identified objects in time, and estimate future positions of the identified objects. 15. The controller of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises: a route finding algorithm configured to determine for said travel path a route of the vehicle between two waypoints based on recorded traffic patterns between the two waypoints. 16. The controller of claim 15, wherein the route finding algorithm is configured to determine the route based on at least one of recorded times to travel between the two waypoints, a history of congestion areas between the two waypoints, and real-time reports of congestion. 17. The controller of claim 16, wherein the route finding algorithm is configured to determine the route based on respective weighted averages for a number of specific travel routes between the two waypoints, respective weighted averages including said at least one of the recorded times to travel between the two waypoints, the history of congestion areas between the two waypoints, and the real-time reports of congestion. 18. The controller of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to recognize driver impairment. 19. The controller of claim 18, wherein the processor is configured to recognize the driver impairment from a biometric sensor. 20. The controller of claim 18, wherein the processor is configured to recognize the driver impairment from an analysis of driver-control of the vehicle. 