A method that simultaneously monitors and captures vibration acceleration signals at locations comprising at least one site sourcing environmental excitations and a target site, which target site is selected from a planned machinery foundation site or one or more sites interfacing between elements of machinery to be placed on such foundation; extracting amplitude and frequency data from the frequency representations of the domains of such signals; quantifying displacement excitations from such data at such locations; and providing transmissivity ratios along the vibration path by summing the displacement excitations at different frequencies at each of the locations and then ratioing the sum at either the planned machinery foundation site or at a selected joint site with the sum at the environmental excitation site, thereby indicating the relative vibration stiffness between such sites. Such transmissivity ratios can then be used to modify the design of the proposed foundation, and/or the design of interfacing elements of the machine.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of identifying vibrations transmitted through ground soil between an environmental vibration site and a target site, comprising: (a) simultaneously monitoring and capturing vibration accelerometer signals at said environmental vibration site and at said target site; (b) extracting amplitude and frequency data from the frequency representations of the domains of said signals; (c) quantifying displacement excitations from said data; and (d) providing transmissivity ratios by summing said displacement excitations at different frequencies at said environmental vibration site to produce a first sum and at said target site to produce a second sum and ratioing the first sum and the second sum, thereby indicating the relative vibrational stiffness between said environmental vibration site and said target site. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the displacement excitations are quantified for a linear system with sinusoidal excitation by the following summations: ##EQU2## wherein X.sub.s (n) is a.sub.s (n)/(2.pi.f.sub.n).sup.2, X.sub.t (n) is a.sub.s (n)/(2.pi.f.sub.n).sup.2, f.sub.n is a dominant frequency in the Fourier transform, a.sub.s (n) is the acceleration amplitude of the environmental vibration site corresponding to f.sub.n, a.sub.t (n) is the acceleration amplitude of the target site corresponding to f.sub.n, and p is the number of dominant frequencies in the Fourier transform. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein in step (d) a transmissivity ratio is determined dividing X.sub.t by X.sub.s. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) is accomplished with a first sensor placed at said environmental vibration site and a second sensor placed at said target site. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) is accomplished with a first sensor placed at said environmental vibration site and a second sensor placed at said target site. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the signals is step (a) relayed to a signal conditioner and then to a computer and storage device. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the signals is step (a) are preconditioned to enhance signal to noise ratio. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the signals are amplified. 9. A method of characterizing environmental vibration transmissivity for machinery to be installed on a planned machinery foundation, the method comprising: (a) simultaneously monitoring and capturing vibration acceleration signals at an earth ground site through which environmental vibrations from an environmental vibrational source are transmitted, and at a target site wherein the target site is a planned machinery foundation site, one or more sites containing joints between elements of machinery to be placed on a foundation, and a combination thereof; (b) extracting amplitude and frequency data from the frequency representations of the domains of said signals; (c) quantifying displacement excitations from said data; and (d) providing transmissivity ratios by summing said displacement excitations at different frequencies at said earth ground site to produce a first sum and at said target site to produce a second sum and ratioing the first sum to the second sum, thereby indicating the relative vibrational transmissivity between said earth ground site and said target site. 10. The method of claim 9, in which the extraction step (b) is carried out by Fourier transformation. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the displacement excitations are quantified for a linear system with sinusoidal excitation by the following summations: ##EQU3## wherein X.sub.s (n) is a.sub.s (n)/(2.pi.f.sub.n).sup.2, X.sub.t (n) is a.sub.s (n)/(2.pi.f.sub.n).sup.2, f.sub.n is a dominant frequency in the Fourier transform, a.sub.s (n) is the acceleration amplitude of the earth ground site corresponding to f.sub.n, a.sub.t (n) is the acceleration amplitude of the target site corresponding to f.sub.n, and p is the number of dominant frequencies in the Fourier transform. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein in step (d) a transmissivity ratio is determined dividing X.sub.t by X.sub.s. 13. The method of claim 9, in which said environmental vibrational source is a remote manufacturing dynamic machine or a drive motor of a machine being analyzed. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein step (a) is accomplished with a first sensor placed at said earth ground site and a second sensor placed at said target site. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein step (a) is accomplished with a first sensor placed at said earth ground site and a second sensor placed at said target site. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the signals is step (a) relayed to a signal conditioner and then to a computer and storage device. 17. The method of claim 9, wherein the signals is step (a) are preconditioned to reduce signal to noise ratio. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the signals are amplified. 