A multi-spindle end effector is provided for a multiple axis robot. The multi-spindle end effector includes a plate housing having at least a pair of spaced-apart spindles mounted thereon. A servo-motor drivingly engages the spindles. A gear box steps down the RPMs of the motor to the desired RPM of the object to be rotated. A timing belt, which may be continuous, interlinks the first and second spindles so that the rotation of first spindle matches the rotation of the second spindle. An idler pulley may be employed to properly tension the belt.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector for a multiple axis robot comprising: a plate housing adapted to mount to said robot; a plurality of spindles rotatably mounted on said plate housing; a motor drivingly engaging at least one of said spindles; and a synchronizer interconnecting said spindles; wherein said plate housing includes a base having a recessed mounting portion adapted to connect to a mounting surface of said robot, said recessed mounting portion selectively positioning a center of gravity of said end effector relative to said mounting surface of said robot. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the plate housing further comprises: a base; and an annular rib extending essentially perpendicularly relative to said base. 3. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising a driving pulley interconnecting said motor and said at least one of said plurality of spindles by way of said synchronizer. 4. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said motor is mounted to said plate housing opposite said at least one of said plurality of spindles. 5. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising a spindle housing rotatably interconnecting another of said plurality of spindles to said plate housing. 6. The end effector of claim 5, wherein said spindle housing is mounted to said plate housing opposite said another of said plurality of spindles. 7. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising: a driving pulley fixedly secured to said at least one of said plurality of spindles; and a driven pulley fixedly secured to each of a remainder of said plurality of spindles; wherein said driving pulley and said driven pulley are interconnected by said synchronizer. 8. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said synchronizer further comprises a belt. 9. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising an indexing member coupled between each of said plurality of spindles and each object to be mounted to said spindles. 10. The end effector of claim 9, further comprising a locator plate interposed between each of said indexing members and each of said plurality of spindles, said locator plate having a configuration matching a pattern of said objects to be mounted. 11. An end effector for a multiple axis robot comprising: a plate housing adapted to mount to said robot; a plurality of spindles rotatably mounted on said plate housing and projecting substantially orthogonally away from said plate housing; a motor mounted on said plate housing and drivingly engaging at least one of said spindles; a synchronizer interconnecting said spindles; and a wheel holder assembly secured between each wheel to be rotated and each of said plurality of spindles, said wheel holder assembly including: a support arm coupled to said spindle; an outwardly biased piston slidably coupled to said support arm and radially extending relative to said spindle; and a moveable arm laterally extending from a free end of said piston and engaging said wheel. 12. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising at least one idler pulley rotatably and slidably mounted to said plate housing and tensionably engaging said synchronizer. 13. The end effector of claim 12, wherein said idler pulley further comprises: a jam nut having a shaft; a sleeve rotatably mounted on said shaft; and a pulley wheel coupled to said sleeve, said sleeve engaging said synchronizer. 14. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said plurality of spindles are spaced apart along a common edge of said plate housing. 15. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said plurality of spindles are mounted at select corners of said plate housing. 16. An end effector for a multiple axis robot comprising: a plate housing adapted to connect to a sixth axis mounting surface of said robot, said plate housing having a spindle mounting surface extending substantially parallel to said sixth axis mounting surface; a plurality of spindles rotatably mounted to said spindle mounting surface of said plate housing and projecting substantially orthogonally away from said spindle mounting surface, said plurality of spindles adapted to support a plurality of objects for rotation relative to said plate housing; a motor mounted to said plate housing opposite one of said plurality of spindles, said motor being operably connected to said one of said plurality of spindles; a driving pulley coupled to said one of said plurality of spindles; a belt engaging said driving pulley; and at least one driven pulley mounted to another of said plurality of spindles and engaging said belt. 17. The end effector of claim 16 further comprising at least one idler pulley rotatably and slidably mounted to said spindle mounting surface of said housing plate and tensionably engaging said belt. 18. An apparatus comprising: a six axis robot having a first mounting surface provided at a sixth axis of said six axis robot; and an end effector mounted to said first mounting surface, said end effector including: a base having a spindle mounting surface extending substantially parallel to said first mounting surface and a second mounting surface which is recessed relative to said spindle mounting surface and parallel thereto, said second mounting surface being mounted to said first mounting surface; a plurality of spindles rotatably mounted to said spindle mounting surface of said base and extending substantially orthogonally away from said spindle mounting surface; a motor mounted to said spindle mounting surface of said base opposite one of said plurality of spindles, said motor drivingly engaging said one of said plurality of spindles; a spindle housing mounted to said spindle mounting surface of said base opposite another of said plurality of spindles, said spindle housing rotatably supporting said another of said plurality of spindles; a driving pulley coupled to said one of said plurality of spindles; a belt engaging said driving pulley; a driven pulley mounted to said another of said plurality of spindles and engaging said belt; and at least one idler pulley rotatably and slidably mounted to said spindle mounting surface of said base and tensionably engaging said belt. 19. The end effector of claim 16, wherein said plate housing includes a housing mounting surface formed at a central region of said spindle mounting surface for mounting said plate housing to said sixth axis mounting surface of said robot, said mounting surface being recessed relative to said spindle mounting surface to selectively position a center of gravity of said end effector relative to said sixth axis mounting surface of said robot. 