A storage system particularly for storing biological materials such as blood, stem cells, and DNA includes a storage unit having at least three vertical sides, at least two of the three vertical sides each being provided with a plurality of individually accessible storage receptacles. A plurality of boxes or cassettes are removably disposed in respective ones of the storage receptacles. At least one robot mechanism is movable along a track section or path extending to the two vertical sides of the unit, the robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing the storage receptacles. A computer is operatively connected to the robot mechanism for controlling movement and access operations thereof and for registering the contents of the storage receptacles. Where the storage unit is disposed in a room, additional storage receptacles may be disposed in a rectangular array inside a wall of the room. The boxes or cassettes contain a multiplicity of vials at least some of which may be segmented, with a plurality of separable compartments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage system comprising: an enclosure having a plurality of vertical walls connected to one another via a floor surface; a rectangular grid array of first storage receptacles disposed along at least one of said walls; second storage receptacles disposed inside said enclosure and spaced from said walls; a first track section extending along said one of said walls, parallel thereto; a second track section extending to said second storage receptacles; a robot mechanism movable along said first track section, said robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing at least said first storage receptacles; a heat exchanger operatively coupled to said first storage receptacles for maintaining contents thereof in a range of temperatures below a preselected low temperature; and a computer operatively connected to said robot mechanism for controlling movement and access operations thereof and for registering the contents of said storage receptacles. 2. The storage system defined in claim 1, further comprising a multiple-compartment vial assembly disposed in at least one of said receptacles, said vial assembly having a plurality of vials releasably bound to one another. 3. The storage system defined in claim 1, further comprising a multiplicity of cassettes each disposed in a respective one of said first storage receptacles and said second storage receptacles. 4. The storage system defined in claim 3 wherein said cassettes each include at least two storage chambers or compartments accessed via respective covers or doors disposed on opposite sides of the respective cassette. 5. The storage system defined in claim 3 wherein at least one of said cassettes holds a multiple-compartment vial assembly having a plurality of vials releasably bound to one another. 6. The storage system defined in claim 1 wherein said one of said walls comprises an outer wall and an inner wall, said first storage receptacles being disposed between said outer wall panel and said inner wall. 7. The storage system defined in claim 6 wherein said outer wall and said inner wall define a storage space, a plurality of said first receptacles being in communication with said storage space so as to be at a common temperature. 8. The storage system defined in claim 7, further comprising a temperature-control apparatus operatively connected to said storage space for regulating same to have a temperature within a predetermined range. 9. The storage system defined in claim 7, further comprising a plurality of specimen-holding containers disposed in respective ones of said first receptacles, said robot mechanism being located only outside of said storage space. 10. The storage system defined in claim 9 wherein said containers include a plurality of vial assemblies each including a plurality of vial segments defining separate compartments, said segments being removably connected to one another, whereby any one of said segments may be separated from another segment while maintaining complete integrity of contents of the separated segments. 11. The storage system defined in claim 9 wherein said segments have a common length and are disposed side-by-side in parallel with one another. 12. The storage system defined in claim 1 wherein said second storage receptacles are disposed in at least one columnar arrangement in turn disposed in said enclosure. 13. The storage system defined in claim 12 wherein said second track section is one of a plurality of track sections collectively surrounding said columnar arrangement. 14. The storage system defined in claim 13, further comprising an additional robot mechanism movable along at least one of said plurality of track sections, said additional robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing at least some of said second storage receptacles. 15. The storage system defined in claim 14, further comprising a plurality of specimen-holding containers disposed in respective ones of said second receptacles, said additional robot mechanism and any other servomechanism for removing said containers from said second receptacles and inserting said containers into said second receptacles being located only outside of said columnar arrangement. 16. The storage system defined in claim 14, further comprising a multiplicity of cassettes each disposed in a respective one of said second storage receptacles. 17. The storage system defined in claim 16 wherein said cassettes each include at least two storage chambers or compartments accessed via respective covers or doors disposed on opposite sides of the respective cassette. 18. A storage system comprising: an enclosure having a plurality of vertical walls connected to one another via a floor surface, one of said walls comprising an outer wall and an inner wall; a rectangular grid array of first storage receptacles disposed along at least said one of said walls, said first storage receptacles being disposed between said outer wall panel and said inner wall; second storage receptacles disposed inside said enclosure and spaced from said walls; a first track section extending along said one of said walls, parallel thereto; a second track section extending to said second storage receptacles; a robot mechanism movable along said first track section, said robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing at least said first storage receptacles; and a computer operatively connected to said robot mechanism for controlling movement and access operations thereof and for registering the contents of said storage receptacles. 19. The storage system defined in claim 18, further comprising a temperature-control apparatus operatively connected to said storage space for regulating same to have a temperature within a predetermined range. 20. The storage system defined in claim 18 wherein said outer wall and said inner wall define a storage space, a plurality of said first receptacles being in communication with said storage space so as to be at a common temperature. 21. The storage system defined in claim 20, further comprising a plurality of specimen-holding containers disposed in respective ones of said first receptacles, said robot mechanism being located only outside of said storage space. 22. The storage system defined in claim 21 wherein said containers include a plurality of vial assemblies each including a plurality of vial segments defining separate compartments, said segments being removably connected to one another, whereby any one of said segments may be separated from another segment while maintaining complete integrity of contents of the separated segments. 23. The storage system defined in claim 21 wherein said segments have a common length and are disposed side-by-side in parallel with one another. 24. A storage system comprising: an enclosure having a plurality of vertical walls connected to one another via a floor surface; a rectangular grid array of first storage receptacles disposed along at least one of said walls; second storage receptacles disposed inside said enclosure and spaced from said walls, said second storage receptacles being disposed in at least one columnar arrangement in turn disposed in said enclosure; a first track section extending along said one of said walls, parallel thereto; a second track section extending to said second storage receptacles, said second track section being one of a plurality of track sections collectively surrounding said columnar arrangement; a robot mechanism movable along said first track section, said robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing at least said first storage receptacles; and a computer operatively connected to said robot mechanism for controlling movement and access operations thereof and for registering the contents of said storage receptacles. 25. The storage system defined in claim 24, further comprising an additional robot mechanism movable along at least one of said plurality of track sections, said additional robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing at least some of said second storage receptacles. 26. The storage system defined in claim 25, further comprising a plurality of specimen-holding containers disposed in respective ones of said second receptacles, said additional robot mechanism and any other servomechanism for removing said containers from said second receptacles and inserting said containers into said second receptacles being located only outside of said columnar arrangement. 27. The storage system defined in claim 25, further comprising a multiplicity of cassettes each disposed in a respective one of said second storage receptacles. 28. The storage system defined in claim 27 wherein said cassettes each include at least two storage chambers or compartments accessed via respective covers or doors disposed on opposite sides of the respective cassette. 29. A storage system comprising: an enclosure having a plurality of vertical walls connected to one another via a floor surface; a rectangular grid array of first storage receptacles disposed along at least one of said walls; second storage receptacles disposed inside said enclosure and spaced from said walls; a multiplicity of cassettes each disposed in a respective one of said first storage receptacles and said second storage receptacles, said cassettes each including at least two storage chambers or compartments accessed via respective covers or doors disposed on opposite sides of the respective cassette; a first track section extending along said one of said walls, parallel thereto; a second track section extending to said second storage receptacles; a robot mechanism movable along said first track section, said robot mechanism having a robotic arm for accessing at least said first storage receptacles; and a computer operatively connected to said robot mechanism for controlling movement and access operations thereof and for registering the contents of said storage receptacles. 30. The storage system defined in claim 29 wherein at least one of said cassettes holds a multiple-compartment vial assembly having a plurality of vials releasably bound to one another. 31. The storage system defined in claim 30, further comprising a heat exchanger operatively coupled to said first storage receptacles for maintaining contents thereof in a range of temperatures below a preselected low temperature. 