The present invention provides multi-well plates and column arrays in which samples (e.g., cell lysates containing nucleic acids of interest, such as RNA) can be analyzed and/or processed. In one embodiment, the microfiltration arrangement is a multilayer structure, including (i) a column plate having an array of minicolumns into which samples can be placed, (ii) a discrete filter element disposed in each minicolumn, (iii) a drip-director plate having a corresponding array of drip directors through which filtrate may egress, and (iv) a receiving-well plate having a corresponding array of receiving wells into which filtrate can flow. The invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that are relatively simple to manufacture and that overcome many of the problems associated with the prior arrangements relating to (i) cross-contamination due to wicking across a common filter sheet or (ii) individual filter elements entrapping sample constituents within substantial dead volumes. Further, the invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that adequately support discrete filter elements disposed in the wells without creating substantial preferential flow. Additionally, the invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that avoid cross-contamination due to aerosol formation, pendent drops and/or splattering. Other disclosed features of the invention provide for the automated covering or heat-sealing of filtrate samples separately collected in an array of wells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for avoiding cross-contamination due to pendent drops of fluid hanging from a plurality of discharge conduits disposed in an array above a corresponding array of receiving wells, comprising: (i) a carriage configured to carry said discharge-conduit array and adapted for linear reciprocal motion in either of two directions along a first, generally horizontal, axis from a neutral position whereat said arrays are substantially axially aligned; and (ii) a vertical positioning assembly supporting said discharge-conduit array for linear movement along a second, generally vertical, axis between (a) a lowered position whereat said discharge conduits extend down into respective receiving wells, (b) an elevated position whereat said discharge conduits clear said receiving wells, and (c) a touch-off position intermediate of said lowered and elevated positions where pendent drops hanging from said discharge conduits contact respective sidewalls of respective ones of said receiving wells upon said linear reciprocal motion. 2. The apparatus of claim 55, further comprising a vacuum chamber communicating with said discharge-conduit array from a side thereof opposite said receiving-well array, whereby evacuation of said vacuum chamber is effective to urge pendent drops of fluid hanging from said discharge conduits in a direction away from said receiving wells and into said discharge conduits. 3. A method for avoiding cross-contamination due to pendent drops of fluid hanging from a plurality of discharge conduits disposed in an array above a corresponding array of receiving wells, comprising: touching-off, in a substantially simultaneous fashion, said pendent drops of fluid hanging from said discharge conduits to inner sidewalls of respective receiving wells; wherein said step of touching-off is effected by shifting the discharge-conduit array along a plane substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal axes of the receiving wells, while the receiving wells are maintained in a substantially fixed position; and further wherein each of said discharge conduits is shifted into contact with one sidewall portion of a respective well, and then is shifted into contact with another, laterally opposing sidewell portion of the same receiving well. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising drawing adherent drops of fluid hanging from said discharge conduits in a direction away from said respective receiving wells and up into said discharge conduits. 