A method for the complete segmentation of an image into regions of near-uniform color first segments the image into blocks of size N.times.M and applies color clustering within these blocks. This is done with a sequential color clustering algorithm. Subsequent to this, the color clusters that are spatially adjacent and also have similar color characteristics are merged. This is done through a novel method which combines distance in the feature space with distance in the spatial domain. This results in spatially compact color regions which have similar color information. The result of applying this technique is a complete segmentation of the image according to regions of near-uniform color.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A method for complete segmentation of an image into regions of near-uniform color comprising the steps of: segmenting the image into blocks of size N.times.M; applying color clustering within the segmented blocks using a sequential color clustering algorithm; and merging color clusters that are spatially adjacent and also have similar color characteristics by combining distance in the feature space with distance in the spatial domain to produce spatially compact color regions which have similar color information, thereby producing complete segmentation of the image according to regions of near-uniform color, wherein the step of merging comprises the steps of: computing distances between cluster centroids for each pair of blocks; generating a distance matrix; and grouping similar blocks based on computations on the distance matrix. 2. The method for complete segmentation of an image as recited in claim 1, wherein x denotes cluster color centroids found within a block, and two clusters, x.sub.i and x.sub.j, are grouped if they satisfy some similarity criteria. 3. The method for complete segmentation of an image as recited in claim 2, wherein the similarity criterion is the identification of clusters x.sub.i and x.sub.j as relative neighbors which will be grouped together if and only if both the following conditions hold: where .sigma. is a factor called relative edge consistency and d denotes the distance, whereby the factor .sigma. controls the fragmentation of the data into different clusters. 