The present invention relates to a method of determining a thickness of at least one layer on at least one semiconductor wafer (12), comprising the steps of: projecting a first laser pulse (14) on a surface (16) of the at least one layer (10), thereby generating an acoustical wave due to heating of the surface of the at least one layer (10); after a propagation time of the acoustical wave, projecting a series of second laser pulses (18) on the surface (16) of the at least one layer (10); measuring reflected laser pulses (20) of the second laser pulses (18), thereby sensing the times of reflection property changes of the surface (16) of the at least one layer (10); and determining the thickness of the at least one layer (10) by analyzing the times of reflection property changes. The present invention further relates to a system for determining a thickness of a layer (10) on a semiconductor wafer (12).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining a thickness of at least one layer on at least one semiconductor wafer, comprising: a first laser for projecting a first laser pulse on a surface of the at least one layer, thereby generating an acoustical wave due to beating of the surface of the at least one layer, the acoustic wave propagating through the at least one layer and returning a partial echo wave to the surface in response to the acoustic wave reaching an interface of the at least one layer, wherein the echo wave returning to the surface changes a surface reflection property of the surface; a second laser for projecting a series of second laser pulses on the surface of the at least one layer, the second laser pulses adapted for use in measuring the surface reflection property changes of the surface; a detector for measuring laser pulses of the second laser pulses reflected from the surface of the at least one layer, thereby sensing the reflection property changes of the surface of the at least one layer over a period of time; and a processor for determining the thickness of the at least one layer by analyzing the reflection property changes over the period of time. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first and second laser comprise a laser source for generating the first laser pulse and the series of second laser pulses. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first laser pulse and the series of second laser pulses propagate on different light paths between a source and the at least one semiconductor wafer. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first laser pulse and the series of second laser pulses propagate on essentially the same light path between a source and the at least one semiconductor wafer. 5. A The system according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of layers in multi-layer film stacks is measured. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein multiple locations across the semiconductor wafer are measured to determine wafer uniformity. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one layer is deposited by electroplating. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a plasma etch process. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a diffusion process. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a chemical vapor deposition process. 11. The system according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a physical vapor deposition process. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the thickness of the at least one layer is determined to monitor a wet process. 