A calibration apparatus for use with a storage system for storing a plurality of objects in an array of object storage locations. In a preferred embodiment, the calibration apparatus includes a target affixed in a predetermined location to the storage system, an object retrieval mechanism, and an imaging system. The object retrieval mechanism is used for retrieving objects from the object storage locations and has a principal direction of movement which is perpendicular to a plane in which an exposed surface of each of the plurality of objects lie. The imaging system is attached to the object retrieval mechanism for imaging the target. The imaging system is positioned such that the direction from the target to the imaging system is parallel to the principal direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for calibrating an object retrieval mechanism used within a storage system for storing a plurality of objects, comprising: an object retrieval mechanism for retrieving objects from said storage system; a calibration block attached to said storage system, wherein a target is imprinted upon said calibration block; an imaging system attached to said object retrieval mechanism for capturing an image of said target for use in calibrating said object retrieval mechanism relative to said imaging system; and a sensor, wherein said sensor is used to determine the relative position of the object retrieval mechanism with respect to the calibration block in a principal direction. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: positioning mechanism for adjusting the position of the object retrieval mechanism relative to said calibration block to a nominal position. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the imaging system attached to said object retrieval mechanism for capturing an image of the target affixed to said calibration block for use in calibrating said object retrieval mechanism relative to said imaging system said imaging is oriented such that a line of sight from the imaging system to said calibration block is substantially parallel to the retrieval direction of movement of the object retrieval mechanism. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the calibration occurs outside a storage library system prior to placing the object retrieval mechanism in the storage library system. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor is a first sensor, the principal direction is a first principal direction and the means for determining the position of the object retrieval mechanism relative to said calibration block further comprises a second sensor for determining the relative position of the portion of the object retrieval mechanism with respect to the calibration block in a second principal direction, wherein the second principal direction is substantially orthogonal to the first principal direction. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a photosensitive diode and a light source. 7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises an ultrasonic sensor. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a proximity sensor. 9. A calibration apparatus for use with a storage system for storing a plurality of objects in an array of object storage locations, comprising: an object retrieval mechanism for retrieving objects from said object storage locations; a calibration block configured to receive a portion of said object retrieval mechanism; a target imprinted on said calibration block; an imaging system attached to said object retrieval mechanism for capturing the image of said target for determining the relative position of a portion of the object retrieval mechanism with respect to said imaging system, wherein a line of sight of said imaging system to said calibration block is substantially parallel to the direction of retrieval motion of said object retrieval mechanism; a first sensor on said calibration block for determining a first position in a first direction of said object retrieval mechanism with respect to said calibration block; and a second sensor on said calibration block for determining a second position of said object retrieval in a second direction of said object retrieval mechanism with respect to said calibration block, wherein said first and second directions are substantially orthogonal to each other. 10. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the first and second sensors each comprise a photosensitive diode and a light source. 11. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the first and second sensors each comprise an ultrasonic sensor. 12. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the first and second sensors each comprise a proximity sensor. 13. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the imaging system comprises a line scan camera. 