A library of materials is screened for viscosity. A library of materials is provided. The library is contacted with at least one capillary for applying a force through the materials. The relative flow resistance of the materials is measured in response to the force; and the materials in the library are ranked based on the monitored flow resistance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening a library of materials for viscosity, the method comprising: providing a library of materials in a plurality of wells defined on a common substrate; contacting members of said library with at least one capillary for permitting said materials to be passed through a tip portion of said capillary; applying a first force to said materials; monitoring the relative flow resistance of said materials in response to said force, while said materials remain on said substrate and without the need to remove said materials from said substrate applying a second force to said library of materials during monitoring; and ranking members of said library based on the monitored flow resistances. 2. A method for measuring the viscosity of a plurality of liquid samples, said method comprising the steps of: providing a library comprising at least four different liquid samples; contacting said liquid samples with at least one capillary for permitting said liquid samples to be passed through a tip portion of said capillary; applying a first force to said liquid samples; and serially measuring the viscosity of each of said samples at a throughput rate no greater than about 10 minutes per sample, while said materials remain on said substrate and without the need to remove said materials from said substrate. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said liquid samples are selected from the group consisting of polymer solutions, polymer emulsions and polymer dispersions. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said liquid samples are members of a combinatorial library of polymerization product mixtures. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein said liquid samples include at least 8 different samples. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein said liquid samples include at least 16 different liquid samples. 7. The method of claim 2 said polymer samples include at least 96 different liquid samples. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein said viscosity is measured at an average sample-throughput of not more then about 8 minutes per sample. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein said viscosity is measured at an average sample-throughput of not more than about 5 minutes per sample. 10. The method of claim 2 wherein said viscosity is measured at an average sample-throughput of not more than about 2 minutes per sample. 11. The method of claim 2 wherein said viscosity is measured at an average sample-throughput of not more than about 50 seconds per sample. 12. The method of claim 2 wherein said viscosity is measured at an average sample-throughput of not more than about 30 seconds per sample. 13. A method for measuring the viscosity of a plurality of liquid samples, said method comprising the steps of: providing a library comprising at least four different liquid samples, contacting said liquid samples with at least one capillary for permitting said liquid samples to be passed through a tip portion of said capillary; and serially measuring the viscosity of each of said samples at en average sample-throughput of not more then about 10 seconds per sample. 14. The method of claim 2 wherein said liquid sample comprises a solid component having a particle diameter ranging from about 1 nm to about 500 nm. 15. A method for measuring the viscosity of a plurality of liquid samples, said method comprising the steps of: providing a library comprising at least four different liquid samples, contacting said liquid samples with at least on capillary for permitting said liquid samples to be passed through a tip portion of said capillary; and serially measuring the viscosity of each or said samples at a throughput rate no greater than about 10 minutes per sample, wherein said liquid sample comprises a solid component having a particle size ranging from about 5 nm to about 300 nm in diameter. 16. The method of claim 2 wherein each said sample is no greater than a out 10 ml. 17. The method of claim 2 wherein each said sample is no greater than about 2 ml. 18. A method of screening a library of materials for viscosity, the method comprising: providing a library of at least 16 materials in a plurality of wells defined on a common substrate wherein at least one or more wails define a perimeter of the plurality of wells and wherein each of said plurality of wells has a diameter no larger than about 10 mm; contacting the at least 18 materials of said library with at least one capillary in a rapid serial manner for permitting said at least 18 materials to be passed through a substantially cylindrical opening extending through one or more tip portions of the at last one capillary wherein the one or more tip portions are contacted with the at least 16 materials by positioning the one or more tip portions within the plurality or wells such that an outer wail of the one or more tip portions is in substantially mating relationship with the at least one or more wails that define the perimeter of the plurality of wells; applying a first force to the at least 16 materials that causes the at least 18 materials to flow through the one or more tip portions of the, at least one capillary tube; measuring the relative flow resistances of the at least 16 materials in response to the force, while the at least 16 materials remain on the substrate and without the need to remove the at least 16 materials from the substrate wherein the relative flow resistances are measured at a throughput rate of no greater than 4 minutes per sample; and ranking each of the at least 16 materials relative to each other based on the measured flow resistance. 