A semiconductor workpiece holder used in electroplating systems for plating metal layers onto a semiconductor workpieces, and is of particular advantage in connection with plating copper onto semiconductor materials. The workpiece holder includes electrode assemblies which have a contact part which connects to a distal end of an electrode shaft and bears against the workpiece and conducts current therebetween. The contact part is preferably made from a corrosion resistant material, such as platinum. The electrode assembly also preferably includes a dielectric layer which covers the distal end of the electrode shaft and seals against the contact part to prevent plating liquid from corroding the joint between these parts.
Claims We claim: 1. A workpiece holder for use in an electroplating apparatus used to plate a metal or metals onto a workpiece, comprising: a generally circular workpiece support comprising a first columnar member and a second columnar member, the first and second columnar members being adapted to engage spaced-apart locations on a first surface of a workpiece; at least one electrode having a support portion with a first section spaced radially outward with respect to the columnar members and a second section extending laterally with respect to the first section, wherein the second section has a contact face adapted to bear upon a second surface of the workpiece during processing to communicate electrical current thereto; an actuator providing relative movement between the workpiece support and the electrode between a loading position, wherein said contact face and said workpiece support are spaced apart by a first distance, and a processing position, wherein said contact face and said workpiece support are spaced apart by a second distance that is less than said first distance so that said workpiece is clamped between said contact face and said first and second columnar members. 2. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said contact face is made from a corrosion resistant metal. 3. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said contact face is made from platinum. 4. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, said electrode shaft being made from a stainless steel or titanium. 5. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and: said contact face is made from platinum; said electrode shaft is made from a stainless steel or titanium. 6. A workpiece holder according to claim 5 wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer formed about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal against side walls of the electrode shaft to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 7. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from a dielectric plastic material about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 8. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from polyvinylidene fluoride about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 9. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 and further comprising a dielectric layer coated about at least the distal end of the electrode wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and forming a seal to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 10. A workpiece holder according to claim 1, wherein said contact face and said first columnar member are arranged in alignment through a thickness of said workpiece. 11. A workpiece holder according to claim 1, wherein said electrode comprises an electrode finger having a shaft extending to a distal end, said electrode finger comprising a cover applied over said shaft and extending outwardly of the distal end of said shaft, said cover surrounding said contact face and compressible against said workpiece to seal around said contact face. 12. A workpiece holder according to claim 1, wherein said electrode comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, wherein said electrode is J-shaped. 13. A workpiece holder according to claim 1, wherein said electrode comprises an electrode finger having a shaft extending to a distal end and a support portion at a base end, said support portion of said electrode finger comprises an enlarged head carried on a base end of said shaft. 14. A workpiece holder according to claim 1, wherein said electrode comprises at least one electrode finger having an electrode shaft that extends toward a distal end, and wherein said actuator comprises a finger actuator transmission configured and arranged to pivot and translate said electrode shaft. 15. A workpiece holder according to claim 1, wherein said electrode shaft is J-shaped. 16. A workpiece holder according to claim 1 further comprising a plurality of workpiece guides positioned to engage a periphery of the workpiece to position the workpiece with respect to the electrode. 17. A workpiece holder for use in an electroplating apparatus used to plate a metal or metals onto a workpiece, comprising: a generally circular workpiece support mounted to support a workpiece in position with at least a processed surface of the workpiece being in contact with a plating bath, the workpiece support comprising a first columnar member and a second columnar member, the first and second columnar members being adapted to engage spaced-apart locations on the workpiece; at least one electrode finger having a support portion with a first section spaced radially outwardly with respect to the columnar members and a second section extending laterally with respect to the first section, wherein the second section has a contact face configured to bear upon a first side of the workpiece during processing to communicate electrical current therethrough; said workpiece support and said electrode finger being configured for relative movement to clamp said workpiece between said first and second columnar members and said contact face. 18. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said contact face is made from a corrosion resistant metal. 19. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, said electrode shaft being made from a stainless steel or titanium. 20. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, said contact face being made from platinum; and said electrode shaft being made from a stainless steel or titanium. 21. A workpiece holder according to claim 20 wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer formed about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 22. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from a dielectric plastic material about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal around the contact face to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 23. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer formed from polyvinylidene fluoride about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal around the contact face to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 24. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 and wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a dielectric layer coated about at least the distal end of the electrode shaft and forming a seal around the contact face to exclude plating liquid from the contact face. 25. A workpiece holder according to claim 17, wherein said contact face and said first columnar member are arranged in alignment through a thickness of said workpiece. 26. A workpiece holder according to claim 17, wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and further comprising a cover applied over said shaft and extending outwardly of the distal end of said shaft, said cover surrounding said contact face and being compressible against said workpiece to seal around said contact face. 27. A workpiece holder according to claim 17, wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and wherein said support portion of said electrode finger comprises an enlarged head carried on a base end of said shaft. 28. A workpiece holder according to claim 17, wherein said electrode finger comprises an electrode shaft that extends to a distal end and which carries said contact face, and wherein said workpiece support comprises a finger actuator transmission configured and arranged to pivot and translate said electrode shaft. 29. A workpiece holder according to claim 17 further comprising a plurality of workpiece guides positioned to engage a periphery of the workpiece to position the workpiece with respect to the electrode finger. 30. A method of electroplating material on a surface of a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: positioning the workpiece between a generally circular workpiece support and a plurality of electrodes, the workpiece support comprising a first columnar member and a second columnar member, the plurality of electrodes comprising a first electrode and a second electrode, wherein the electrodes have a first section spaced radially outward with respect to the columnar members and a second section extending laterally with respect to the first section, and wherein the second section has a contact face; providing relative movement between the workpiece support and the plurality of electrodes to bear the first and second columnar members against two spaced-apart locations on a first surface of the workpiece and to electrically contact a first location on a second surface of the workpiece with the contact face of the first electrode and electrically contact a second location on the second surface of the workpiece with the contact face of the second electrode; wetting a portion of the workpiece with a plating liquid; and delivering an electrical current to the workpiece via the plurality of electrodes to deposit the material on the workpiece. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein providing relative movement between the workpiece support and the plurality of electrodes comprises moving the electrodes toward the workpiece support. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein the method further comprises forming a seal between the contact faces of the electrodes and the liquid plating solution. 33. The method of claim 30 further comprising excluding the plating liquid from a first region adjacent the first location and a second region adjacent the second location. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the first region is spaced from the second region. 35. The method of claim 30 further comprising rotating the workpiece support while delivering the electrical current. 