A parallel kinematics mechanism is provided for uses such as robotics or machining. The mechanism has various limbs, at least some of which are actuatable, for moving an end component with multiple degrees of freedom. The mechanism advantageously facilitates a closed-form solution for the forward kinematics. A joint assembly is provided for use in the parallel kinematics mechanism, the joint assembly having a plurality of revolute joints for connecting to at least three limbs, the joints having non-parallel axes, which intersect at a common point. In various embodiments of the invention, the end component has three, four, five and six degrees of freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A concentric spherical joint assembly connecting at least first, second, and third limb members with three rotational degrees of freedom with respect to each other, the concentric spherical joint assembly comprising: at least one joint body; and at least three elbows, each elbow having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being mounted to said joint body by means of a proximal revolute joint for rotatable movement about a respective joint axis, the distal end having a distal revolute joint mountable to a respective one of the limb members for rotatable movement about a limb axis, the joint axes and the limb axes of the three elbows intersecting at a common point. 2. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a fourth limb member movably connected to the joint body, the fourth limb member having three rotational degrees of freedom relative to the joint body. 3. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 2, further comprising a universal joint mounted on the joint body including two revolute joints whose axes intersect at a center point, the universal joint connected to said fourth limb member by a revolute joint allowing rotation about an axis which is non-parallel to said two axes of the universal joint and intersects with the center point. 4. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 3, wherein said center point is coincident with said common point. 5. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 2, further comprising a ball-and-socket joint connecting said joint body to said fourth limb member, allowing relative rotation about a center point. 6. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 5, wherein said center point is coincident with said common point. 7. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 1, hence referred to as the first concentric spherical joint assembly, further comprising a second concentric spherical joint assembly connecting at least fourth, fifth, and sixth limb members with three rotational degrees of freedom with respect to each other, the second concentric spherical joint assembly comprising: at least one joint body; and at least three elbows, each elbow having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being mounted to said joint body of said second concentric spherical joint assembly by means of a proximal revolute joint for rotatable movement about a respective joint axis, the distal end having a distal revolute joint mountable to a respective one of the fourth, fifth and sixth limb members for rotatable movement about a limb axis, the joint axes and the limb axes of the three elbows of said second concentric spherical joint assembly intersecting at said common point: wherein the joint body of the first concentric spherical joint assembly is movably connected to the joint body of the second concentric spherical joint assembly, the joint body of the second concentric spherical joint assembly having three rotational degrees of freedom relative to the joint body of the first concentric spherical joint assembly. 8. The concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 7, further comprising a universal joint mounted on the joint body of the first concentric spherical joint assembly, the universal joint having two revolute joints with their axes intersecting at a center point, the universal joint being connected to the joint body of the second concentric spherical joint assembly by a revolute joint with its axis being non-parallel to the axes of said universal joint and intersecting with said center point. 9. The concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 8, where said center point is coincident with said common point. 10. The concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 7, further comprising a ball-and-socket joint connecting the joint body of the first concentric spherical joint assembly and the joint body of the second concentric spherical joint assembly, allowing the joint body of the second concentric spherical joint assembly to rotate about any axis passing through a center point relative to the joint body of the first concentric spherical joint assembly. 11. The concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 10, where said center point is coincident with said common point. 12. A concentric spherical joint assembly according to claim 1, further comprising: at least three satellite joint assemblies each comprising of at least three satellite limb members connected with three degrees of freedom relative to each other; a satellite joint body; and at least three satellite elbows, each of the satellite elbows having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end being mounted to said satellite joint body by means of a proximal revolute joint for rotatable movement about a respective satellite joint axis, the distal end having a distal revolute joint mountable to a respective one of the satellite limb members for rotatable movement about a satellite limb axis, the joint axes and the limb axes of the three satellite elbows intersecting at said common point; wherein each of the three satellite joint bodies is rigidly connected to said first, second, and third limb members of the concentric spherical joint assembly respectively. 13. A mechanism for positioning and orienting an end component in space with six degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; an end component; six elongate actuator limbs, each of said actuator limbs having a first limb member and a second limb member, the second limb member being actuatably movable relative to the first limb member; first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth joint assemblies, each of said joint assembly including: a joint body; and three elbows, each elbow having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end having a proximal revolute joint for mounting the elbow to the joint body for movement about a proximal joint axis, the distal end having a distal revolute joint for mounting limbs allowing movement about a distal joint axis, the proximal and distal joint axes of the tree elbows intersecting at a common point; wherein the distal revolute joint of one of the elbows of each of the first, second, and third joint assemblies is mounted to said base for revolute movement relative thereto; wherein the distal revolute joint of one of the elbows of each of the fourth, fifth, and sixth joint assemblies is mounted to said end component for revolute movement relative thereto; and wherein said actuator limbs connect the first, second, and third joint assemblies to the fourth, fifth, and sixth joint assemblies in a manner each of said actuator limbs has said first limb member mounted to a respective one of said distal revolute joints of the first, second, or third joint assemblies and said second limb member mounted to a respective one of said elbows of the fourth, fifth, or sixth joint assemblies such that each of the joint assemblies at the base is connected to two separate joint assemblies at the end component. 14. A mechanism according to claim 13, wherein at least one of the actuator limbs is a prismatic actuator for extending or retracting first and second limb member relatively to each other. 15. A mechanism according to claim 13, wherein at least one of the actuator limbs includes a revolute actuator mounted to the fist limb member and pivotably actuating the second limb member of the same actuator limb, similar to an elbow linkage device. 16. A mechanism for positioning and orienting an end component in space with six degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; an end component; six elongate actuator limbs, each of said actuator limbs having a first limb member and a second limb member, the second limb member being actuatably movable relative to the first limb member; first, second, and third joint assemblies, each of said joint assembly including: a joint body; and three elbows, each elbow having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end having a proximal revolute joint for mounting the elbow to the joint body for movement about a proximal joint axis, the distal end having a distal revolute joint for mounting limbs allowing movement about a distal joint axis, the proximal and distal joint axes of the three elbows intersecting at a common point; wherein the distal revolute joint of one of the elbows of each of the first, second, and third joint assemblies is mounted to said end component for revolute movement relative thereto; and wherein said actuator limbs connect the first, second, and third joint assemblies to the base in a manner each of said actuator limbs has said first limb member mounted to a respective one of said distal revolute joints of the first, second, or third joint assemblies and the second limb member movably mounted to the base with at least two rotational degrees of freedom relative to the base. 17. A mechanism according to claim 16, wherein at least one of the actuator limbs is a prismatic actuator for extending or retracting first and second limb member relatively to each other. 18. A mechanism according to claim 16, wherein at least one of the actuator limbs includes a revolute actuator mounted to the first limb member and pivotably actuating the second limb member of the same actuator limb, similar to an elbow linkage device. 