Apparatus for the electrostatic powder paint spray coating of substrates, such as automotive vehicles, is provided. The apparatus includes modular applicators which are mountable into a programmable, robotically controlled housing. The modular applicators are switchable into and out of an operational mode on command, to facilitate different optimal coating procedures for coating differing surfaces, ranging from large, open surfaces to smaller, highly irregular substrate surfaces. The applicator heads may be spatially switchable on command from, for example, a bell cup spray applicator to a spray gun applicator. Flow control to each applicator is preferably enhanced using selectable pneumatically controlled pinch valves.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Electrostatic spray apparatus for applying a powder paint coating to substrates, said apparatus comprising: universal main wrist receptacle means removably affixed to the end of a multi-axially controllable arm, said receptacle means having attached thereto: a modular rotary bell cup powder spray applicator, said receptacle means also having connection means to which a modular powder spray gun applicator is optionally and removably affixed, said apparatus having means for spatially switching from one said applicator to the other applicator such that a selected one of said applicators is positioned adjacent said substrate for coating, on command, and including control means for selectively controlling the supply of said spray powder to a selected one of said applicators, on command. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said receptacle means has a spray gun applicator removably affixed thereto. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said wrist receptacle has a modular rotary bell cup applicator and a modular spray gun applicator both removably affixed to said receptacle. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said optional spray gun applicator is omitted and in said connection a removable plug is inserted. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said switching command is effected electrically. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said switching command is effected pneumatically. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 including a control valve which controls the flow of powder supplied to said bell cup applicator. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 including a control valve which controls the flow of powder supplied to said spray gun applicator. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said control valve is controlled electrically. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said control valve is controlled electrically. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said control valve is controlled pneumatically. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said control valve is controlled pneumatically. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said control valve is a pneumatically sealable pinch valve. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said control valve is a pneumatically sealable pinch valve. 