A method of handling an object using a robot end effector. The method includes providing a robot having an end effector supporting a pair of carriages, providing a pair of fingers for each carriage, moving the end effector over an object, grasping an object with the fingers, moving the object with the end effector to a container, and depositing the object by counter-rotating the pairs of fingers. One or both of the carriages is movable toward the other carriage to engage objects on a conveyor system with the fingers. The robot moves the end effector between the conveyor system and shipping containers for shipping the objects. Because the pairs of fingers counter-rotate, the friction forces between each finger and the tray is offset by the friction forces between the other finger in the pair and the tray. The improved handling method thereby maintains objects substantially in the desired stacking orientation within the shipping container. Preferably, an actuator is provided for each finger. A change-out mechanism may also be provided to facilitate replacing the fingers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of handling a tray, the method comprising: providing a robot having an end effector supporting first and second carriages; providing a pair of fingers for each carriage; moving the end effector over the tray; grasping the tray with the fingers; moving the tray with the end effector to a container; and depositing the tray in the container with the end effector by counter-rotating the pairs of fingers. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said depositing step includes counter-rotating the fingers with actuators. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said depositing step includes counter-rotating each pair of fingers with a single actuator through a linkage. 4. A method of transporting an object using an end effector having a first and second carriage, a first and second pair of fingers, and at least one pair of actuators, said method comprising: positioning said end effector over said object; activating said pair of actuators to rotate said first and second pair of fingers to an engaged position; moving said first carriage toward said second carriage until said first and second pair of fingers are beneath said object; elevating said end effector to move said object to a desired location; and activating said actuators to rotate said first and second pair of fingers to a disengaged position. 