In an automated processing system, a system controller uses a meta-heuristic technique for identifying an optimal or near-optimal control schedule for controlling movements and operations of a robot. In particular embodiments, the system controller uses a genetic algorithm to breed a control schedule for the robot. In particular embodiments, the system controller dynamically updates the control schedule based on system operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calculating a control schedule for a robot within a fabrication system, the method comprising: determining operating characteristics for steps in a fabrication process, the operating characteristics comprising a robot movement matrix for movements between a plurality of processing stations and processing times for each of the processing stations; identifying a plurality of control schedules each detailing a process for a robot to shuttle wafers between the processing stations; determining fitness for each of the control schedules using the operating characteristics; mating the control schedules according to the fitness determined for each control schedule to create a resulting generation of control schedules; iterating the fitness determining and the mating for a plurality of resulting generations; selecting a chosen control schedule from a final one of the resulting generations based on fitness; and operating the robot according to the chosen control schedule. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring actual operating characteristics of the robot and of the processing stations; re-performing the fitness determining, mating, iterating, and selecting to identify an updated chosen control schedule; and operating the robot according to the updated chosen control schedule. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the control schedules specifies a one-unit cycle of robot actions such that the robot actions result in processing of one wafer in steady-state, and wherein the fitness of each of the control schedules indicates cycle time for the control schedule. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: at least one of the processing stations comprises a plurality of processing units, and each of the control schedules specifies a one-unit cycle of robot actions; determining the fitness of each of the control schedules comprises constructing a least common multiple unit cycle from the control schedule and calculating fitness of the least common multiple unit cycle; and operating the robot according to the chosen control schedule comprises operating the robot according to the least common multiple unit cycle corresponding to the chosen control schedule. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to each mating of a generation: identifying an elite portion of the generation using fitness of each of the control schedules in the generation; discarding all of the control schedules from the generation that are not in the elite portion; and replicating the elite portion of the control schedules according to relative fitness of each of the control schedules to increase the number of control schedules in the generation to an original population size. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the fitness of a control schedule indicates the amount of time to complete the control schedule, and wherein the chosen control schedule results in the smallest amount of time as compared to other control schedules in any of the resulting generations. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing stations comprise a series of stages for execution in a specified order to perform photolithography of a semiconductor wafer, the processing stations comprising a coating station, a baking station, an ultraviolet exposure station, and a development station. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the operating characteristics further comprise, for each of the processing stations, a time for the robot to load a wafer at the processing station and a time for the robot to unload a wafer at the processing station, and wherein the robot movement matrix indicates movement time for the robot between the processing stations based on whether or not the robot currently is loaded with a wafer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the control schedules specifies a sequence of alleles, each of the alleles indicating one of the stations for the robot to service. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein mating a generation of control schedules comprises performing the following steps a plurality of times: identifying a first control schedule and a second control schedule from the generation; selecting a crossover point; creating a first progeny having alleles identical to the first control schedule up to the crossover point; reordering remaining alleles of the first progeny in the order in which the remaining alleles appear in the second control schedule; creating a second progeny having alleles identical to the second control schedule up to the crossover point; and reordering remaining alleles of the second progeny in the order in which the remaining alleles appear in the first control schedule. 11. A wafer fabrication system comprising: a plurality of processing stations; a system controller operable to determine operating characteristics for steps in a fabrication process, the operating characteristics comprising a robot movement matrix for movements of a robot between the processing stations and processing times for each of the processing stations, to system controller further operable to identify a plurality of control schedules each detailing a process for the robot to shuttle wafers between the processing stations, to determine fitness for each of the control schedules using the operating characteristics, to mate the control schedules according to the fitness determined for each control schedule to create a resulting generation of control schedules, to iterate the fitness determining and the mating for a plurality of resulting generations, and to select a chosen control schedule from a final one of the resulting generations based on fitness; and the robot operable to service the processing stations according to the chosen control schedule. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the system controller is further operable to monitor actual operating characteristics of the robot and of the processing stations and to re-perform the fitness determining, mating, iterating, and selecting to identify an updated chosen control schedule; and the robot is further operable to service the processing stations according to the updated chosen control schedule. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the control schedules specifies a one-unit cycle of robot actions such that the robot actions result in processing of one wafer in steady-state, and wherein the fitness of each of the control schedules indicates cycle time for the control schedule. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein: at least one of the processing stations comprises a plurality of processing units, and each of the control schedules specifies a one-unit cycle of robot actions; the system controller is further operable to determine the fitness of each of the control schedules by constructing a least common multiple unit cycle from the control schedule and calculating fitness of the least common multiple unit cycle; and the robot services the processing stations according to the chosen control schedule using the least common multiple unit cycle corresponding to the chosen control schedule. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the system controller is further operable, prior to each mating of a generation, to: identify an elite portion of the generation using fitness of each of the control schedules in the generation; discard all of the control schedules from the generation that are not in the elite portion; and replicate the elite portion of the control schedules according to relative fitness of each of the control schedules to increase the number of control schedules in the generation to an original population size. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the fitness of a control schedule indicates the amount of time to complete the control schedule, and wherein the chosen control schedule results in the smallest amount of time as compared to other control schedules in any of the resulting generations. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the processing stations comprise a series of stages for execution in a specified order to perform photolithography of a semiconductor wafer, the processing stations comprising a coating station, a baking station, an ultraviolet exposure station, and a development station. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the operating characteristics further comprise, for each of the processing stations, a time for the robot to load a wafer at the processing station and a time for the robot to unload a wafer at the processing station, and wherein the robot movement matrix indicates movement time for the robot between the processing stations based on whether or not the robot currently is loaded with a wafer. 19. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the control schedules specifies a sequence of alleles, each of the alleles indicating one of the stations for the robot to service. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the system controller mates a generation of control schedules by performing the following steps a plurality of times: identifying a first control schedule and a second control schedule from the generation; selecting a crossover point; creating a first progeny having alleles identical to the first control schedule up to the crossover point; reordering remaining alleles of the first progeny in the order in which the remaining alleles appear in the second control schedule; creating a second progeny having alleles identical to the second control schedule up to the crossover point; and reordering remaining alleles of the second progeny in the order in which the remaining alleles appear in the first control schedule. 21. Logic for calculating a control schedule for a robot within a fabrication system, the logic encoded in media and operable when executed to perform the steps of: determining operating characteristics for steps in a fabrication process, the operating characteristics comprising a robot movement matrix for movements between a plurality of processing stations and processing times for each of the processing stations; identifying a plurality of control schedules each detailing a process for a robot to shuttle wafers between the processing stations; determining fitness for each of the control schedules using the operating characteristics; mating the control schedules according to the fitness determined for each control schedule to create a resulting generation of control schedules; iterating the fitness determining and the mating for a plurality of resulting generations; selecting a chosen control schedule from a final one of the resulting generations based on fitness; and providing the chosen control schedule to the robot to control operation of the robot. 22. The logic of claim 21, further operable when executed to perform the steps of: monitoring actual operating characteristics of the robot and of the processing stations; re-performing the fitness determining, mating, iterating, and selecting to identify an updated chosen control schedule; and operating the robot according to the updated chosen control schedule. 23. The logic of claim 21, wherein each of the control schedules specifies a one-unit cycle of robot actions such that the robot actions result in processing of one wafer in steady-state, and wherein the fitness of each of the control schedules indicates cycle time for the control schedule. 24. The logic of claim 21, wherein at least one of the processing stations comprises a plurality of processing units, and each of the control schedules specifies a one-unit cycle of robot actions, the logic further operable when executed to perform the steps of: determining the fitness of each of the control schedules by constructing a least common multiple unit cycle from the control schedule and calculating fitness of the least common multiple unit cycle; and providing the least common multiple unit cycle corresponding to the chosen control schedule to the robot to control operation of the robot. 25. The logic of claim 21, further operable when executed to perform, prior to each mating of a generation, the steps of: identifying an elite portion of the generation using fitness of each of the control schedules in the generation; discarding all of the control schedules from the generation that are not in the elite portion; and replicating the elite portion of the control schedules according to relative fitness of each of the control schedules to increase the number of control schedules in the generation to an original population size. 26. The logic of claim 21, wherein the fitness of a control schedule indicates the amount of time to complete the control schedule, and wherein the chosen control schedule results in the smallest amount of time as compared to other control schedules in any of the resulting generations. 27. The logic of claim 21, wherein the processing stations comprise a series of stages for execution in a specified order to perform photolithography of a semiconductor wafer, the processing stations comprising a coating station, a baking station, an ultraviolet exposure station, and a development station. 28. The logic of claim 21, wherein the operating characteristics further comprise, for each of the processing stations, a time for the robot to load a wafer at the processing station and a time for the robot to unload a wafer at the processing station, and wherein the robot movement matrix indicates movement time for the robot between the processing stations based on whether or not the robot currently is loaded with a wafer. 29. The logic of claim 21, wherein each of the control schedules specifies a sequence of alleles, each of the alleles indicating one of the stations for the robot to service. 30. The logic of claim 29, further operable when executed to mate a generation by performing, a plurality of times, the steps of: identifying a first control schedule and a second control schedule from the generation; selecting a crossover point; creating a first progeny having alleles identical to the first control schedule up to the crossover point; reordering remaining alleles of the first progeny in the order in which the remaining alleles appear in the second control schedule; creating a second progeny having alleles identical to the second control schedule up to the crossover point; and reordering remaining alleles of the second progeny in the order in which the remaining alleles appear in the first control schedule. 