A system, method, and product are disclosed for associating subcomponents with a storage library. A unique identifier is stored in a particular storage library. Each subcomponent that is a part of the particular storage library is then associated with the particular storage library by storing a copy of the unique identifier within each subcomponent. In order for a subcomponent to be usable by a particular storage library, the particular storage library's unique identifier must be stored within the subcomponent.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for associating subcomponents with a storage library, said method comprising the steps of: storing a unique identifier in said storage library; and associating each subcomponent included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within each said subcomponent. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: storing said unique identifier in a security module in said storage library. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: storing said unique identifier in said storage library during a manufacturing of said storage library. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: detecting an insertion of a first subcomponent into said storage library; and verifying that said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library utilizing an identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent in response to said detection. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: wherein only subcomponents that include said unique identifier may be utilized by said storage library. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: associating a robot that is included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within said robot. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: associating a pass-through-port that is included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within said pass-through-port. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: associating a storage drive that is included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within said storage drive. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: verifying that a first subcomponent is associated with said storage library utilizing an identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent. 10. The method according to claim 9, further comprising the steps of: comparing said identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent with said unique identifier; in response to a determination that said identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent is said unique identifier, determining that said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library and permitting said first subcomponent's use by said storage library; and in response to a determination that said identifier that is not stored in said first subcomponent is said unique identifier, determining that said first subcomponent is not associated with said storage library and prohibiting said first subcomponent's use by said storage library. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: storing an electronic seal identifier having an expiration time in a first subcomponent during a manufacturing of said first subcomponent; utilizing said first subcomponent within said storage library until said expiration time occurs; in response to said expiration time occurring, associating said first subcomponent with said storage library, wherein said first subcomponent can be used only by said storage library after said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library; and said first subcomponent capable of being utilized with any storage library until said expiration time occurs. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the step of: in response to said expiration time occurring, associating said first subcomponent with said storage library by overwriting said seal with said unique identifier. 13. A system for associating subcomponents with a storage library, said system comprising: a unique identifier that is stored in said storage library; and said unique identifier for associating each subcomponent included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within each said subcomponent. 14. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: a security module included in said storage library for storing said unique identifier. 15. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: said unique identifier being stored in said storage library during a manufacturing of said storage library. 16. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: detection means for detecting an insertion of a first subcomponent into said storage library; and said storage library including a CPU for verifying that said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library utilizing an identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent in response to said detection. 17. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: wherein only subcomponents that include said unique identifier may be utilized by said storage library. 18. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: said subcomponent being a robot that is included within said storage library with said storage library, wherein a copy of said unique identifier is stored within said robot. 19. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: said subcomponent being a storage drive that is included within said storage library with said storage library, wherein a copy of said unique identifier is stored within said storage drive. 20. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: said subcomponent being a pass-through-port that is included within said storage library with said storage library, wherein a copy of said unique identifier is stored within said pass-through-port. 21. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: verifying means for verifying that a first subcomponent is associated with said storage library utilizing an identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent. 22. The system according to claim 21, further comprising: said storage library including a CPU for comparing said identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent with said unique identifier; in response to a determination that said identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent is said unique identifier, said CPU for determining that said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library and permitting said first subcomponent's use by said storage library; and in response to a determination that said identifier that is not stored in said first subcomponent is said unique identifier, said CPU for determining that said first subcomponent is not associated with said storage library and prohibiting said first subcomponent's use by said storage library. 23. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: an electronic seal identifier being stored in a first subcomponent during a manufacturing of said first subcomponent, said seal having an associated expiration time; said first subcomponent capable of being utilized within said storage library until said expiration time occurs; in response to said expiration time occurring, associating means for associating said first subcomponent with said storage library, wherein said first subcomponent can be used only by said storage library after said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library; and said first subcomponent capable of being utilized with any storage library until said expiration time occurs. 24. The system according to claim 23, further comprising: in response to said expiration time occurring, associating means for associating said first subcomponent with said storage library by overwriting said seal with said unique identifier. 25. A computer program product for associating subcomponents with a storage library, said product comprising: instruction means for storing a unique identifier in said storage library; and instruction means for associating each subcomponent included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within each said subcomponent. 26. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for storing said unique identifier in a security module in said storage library. 27. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for storing said unique identifier in said storage library during a manufacturing of said storage library. 28. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for detecting an insertion of a first subcomponent into said storage library; and instruction means for verifying that said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library utilizing an identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent in response to said detection. 29. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: wherein only subcomponents that include said unique identifier may be utilized by said storage library. 30. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for associating a robot that is included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within said robot. 31. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for associating a pass-through-port that is included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within said pass-through-port. 32. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for associating a storage drive that is included within said storage library with said storage library by storing a copy of said unique identifier within said storage drive. 33. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for verifying that a first subcomponent is associated with said storage library utilizing an identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent. 34. The product according to claim 33, further comprising: instruction means for comparing said identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent with said unique identifier; in response to a determination that said identifier that is stored in said first subcomponent is said unique identifier, instruction means for determining that said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library and permitting said first subcomponent's use by said storage library; and in response to a determination that said identifier that is not stored in said first subcomponent is said unique identifier, instruction means for determining that said first subcomponent is not associated with said storage library and prohibiting said first subcomponent's use by said storage library. 35. The product according to claim 25, further comprising: instruction means for storing an electronic seal identifier having an expiration time in a first subcomponent during a manufacturing of said first subcomponent; instruction means for utilizing said first subcomponent within said storage library until said expiration time occurs; in response to said expiration time occurring, instruction means for associating said first subcomponent with said storage library, wherein said first subcomponent can be used only by said storage library after said first subcomponent is associated with said storage library; and said first subcomponent capable of being utilized with any storage library until said expiration time occurs. 36. The product according to claim 35, further comprising: in response to said expiration time occurring, instruction means for associating said first subcomponent with said storage library by overwriting said seal with said unique identifier. 