A robotic system, robot apparatus, and a control method are presented wherein behaviors suitable for a robot are embodied based on information distributed by a number of information distributing devices. Also, the robotic system, robot apparatus, and a control method are designed based on information distributed by the number of information distributing devices such that a robot is prohibited from embodying corresponding behaviors out of the behaviors the robot could embody, or that prohibition on the robot embodying corresponding behaviors is withdrawn. Furthermore, control data for the robot to generate behaviors can be modified to meet the desires of the robot and/or the user of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system, comprising: information distribution means for distributing given information; and controlling means for controlling behaviors of a robot; wherein said controlling means prohibits said robot from embodying corresponding behaviors out of the behaviors said robot can embody, or withdraws prohibition on said robot embodying corresponding behaviors based on said information distributed by said information distribution means. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said information distribution means distributes said information utilizing telecast, and specific light and/or sound information corresponding to said information is displayed on or sounded from the television receiver; and wherein said controlling means comprising: recognition means for recognizing said specific light and/or sound information displayed on and/or sounded from said television receiver; and behavior embodiment controlling means for prohibiting said robot from embodying corresponding behaviors out of the behaviors said robot can embody, or for withdrawing prohibition on said robot embodying corresponding behaviors based on recognized results by said recognition means. 3. A robot apparatus by comprising: recognition means for recognizing information to be distributed; and controlling means for controlling embodiment behaviors of said robot apparatus; wherein said controlling means prohibits said robot device from embodying corresponding behaviors out of the behaviors said robot device can embody, or withdraws prohibition on said robot device embodying corresponding behaviors based on said information recognized by said recognition means. 4. The robot apparatus of claim 3 wherein with said information distributed utilizing telecast, specific light and/or sound information corresponding to said information is displayed on and/or sounded from the television receiver; wherein said recognition means recognizes said specific light and/or sound information displayed on and/or sounded from said television receiver; and wherein said controlling means prohibits the embodiment of corresponding behaviors out of said behaviors, or withdraws prohibition on the embodiment of said behaviors based on the recognized result by said recognition means. 5. A control method of a robot apparatus, comprising the steps of: distributing given information; and letting a robot apparatus embody corresponding behaviors based on said information, wherein at the distributing step when said robot apparatus does not have control data to have said behaviors corresponding to said information embodied, said control data is supplied to said robot apparatus, and said robot apparatus is let to embody said behaviors corresponding to said information based on said control data supplied. 6. The control method of a robot apparatus of claim 5 wherein at the letting step said control data is supplied to said robot apparatus via a network. 7. A control method of a robot apparatus comprising the steps of: distributing given information; and prohibiting the robot apparatus from embodying corresponding behaviors out of the behaviors the robot apparatus can embody, or withdraw prohibition on the embodiment of said behaviors. 8. The control method of a robot apparatus of claim 7, wherein at the distributing step with said information distributed utilizing telecast, specific light and/or sound information corresponding to said information is displayed on and/or sounded from a television receiver; and wherein in the prohibiting step said specific light and/or sound information displayed on and/or sounded from said television receiver is recognized, and based on the recognized result, said robot apparatus is prohibited from embodying said corresponding behaviors, or prohibition on the embodiment of said behaviors is withdrawn. 9. An information processing method comprising the steps of: modifying control data for a robot to generate behaviors as desired by said robot or a user thereof; transmitting said control data modified by the modifying step to said robot: and; wherein at the modifying step said control data is modified based on either said user's circumstances or living environment, or a behavior history of said robot. 