A domed enclosure wall for a plasma processing chamber is made from a dielectric material having a roughened surface with a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches. A plasma sprayed ceramic coating is applied on the roughened surface of the dielectric material. The plasma sprayed coating comprises a textured surface having a roughness with an average skewness that is a negative value. When the enclosure wall is used in a plasma processing chamber, sputtered material generated by a plasma formed in a plasma processing chamber has good adherence to the textured surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A component for a plasma processing chamber, the component comprising a ceramic coating on a dielectric material, the ceramic coating comprising a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.1, whereby sputtered material generated by a plasma in a plasma processing chamber may adhere to the textured exposed surface. 2. A component according to claim 1 wherein the average skewness is an average of a plurality of measured skewness values that range from about -0.7 to about 0.1. 3. A component according to claim 1 wherein the dielectric material has a roughened surface, the roughened surface having the ceramic coating deposited thereon, and wherein the roughened surface has a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches. 4. A component according to claim 1 wherein the component comprises an enclosure wall. 5. A component according to claim 1 wherein the ceramic coating comprises a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%. 6. A component according to claim 1 wherein the ceramic coating has a thickness of from about 25 micrometers to about 203 micrometers. 7. A component according to claim 1 wherein the dielectric material comprises quartz or aluminum oxide. 8. A component according to claim 1 wherein the ceramic coating comprises aluminum oxide or titanium oxide. 9. A wall for a plasma processing chamber, the wall comprising: a dielectric material comprising a roughened surface; and a ceramic coating on the roughened surface of the dielectric material, the coating comprising a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.1, whereby sputtered material generated by a plasma in a plasma processing chamber may adhere to the textured exposed surface. 10. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the average skewness is an average of a plurality of measured skewness values that range from about -0.7 to about 0.1. 11. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the roughened surface has a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches. 12. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the ceramic coating is plasma sprayed onto the roughened surface of the dielectric material. 13. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the ceramic coating comprises a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%. 14. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the ceramic coating has a thickness of from about 25 micrometers to about 203 micrometers. 15. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the dielectric material comprises quartz or aluminum oxide. 16. A wall according to claim 9 wherein the ceramic coating comprises aluminum oxide or titanium oxide. 17. A wall for a plasma processing chamber, the wall comprising: a dielectric material comprising a roughened surface having a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches; and a ceramic coating on the roughened surface of the dielectric material, the coating comprising a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.1, whereby sputtered material generated by a plasma in a plasma processing chamber may adhere to the textured exposed surface. 18. A wall according to claim 17 wherein the ceramic coating is plasma sprayed onto the roughened surface of the dielectric material. 19. A wall according to claim 17 wherein the average skewness is an average of a plurality of measured skewness values that range from about -0.7 to about 0.1. 20. A wall according to claim 17 wherein the ceramic coating comprises a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%. 21. A wall according to claim 17 wherein the ceramic coating has a thickness of from about 25 micrometers to about 203 micrometers. 22. A wall according to claim 17 wherein the dielectric material comprises quartz or aluminum oxide. 23. A wall according to claim 17 wherein the ceramic coating comprises aluminum oxide or titanium oxide. 24. A domed enclosure wall for a plasma processing chamber, the domed enclosure wall comprising: a dielectric material comprising a roughened surface having a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches; and a plasma sprayed ceramic coating deposited on the roughened surface of the dielectric material, the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprising a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.15, whereby sputtered material generated by a plasma in a plasma processing chamber may adhere to the textured exposed surface. 25. A wall according to claim 24 wherein the average skewness is an average of a plurality of measured skewness values that range from about -0.7 to about 0.1. 26. A wall according to claim 24 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%. 27. A wall according to claim 24 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises aluminum oxide, titanium oxide, or mixtures thereof. 28. A wall according to claim 24 wherein the ceramic coating has a thickness of from about 25 micromotors to about 203 micrometers. 29. A wall according to claim 24 wherein the dielectric material comprises a ceramic material. 30. A wall according to claim 29 wherein the ceramic material comprises quartz or aluminum oxide. 31. A wall for a plasma processing chamber, the wall comprising: a dielectric material comprising quartz having a roughened surface, the roughened surface having a roughness average of from about 150 to about 450 microinches; and a plasma sprayed ceramic coating deposited on the roughened surface of the dielectric material, the ceramic coating comprising at least one of Al.sub.2 O.sub.3 and TiO.sub.2, the ceramic coating comprising a textured exposed surface having a roughness with an average skewness across the textured exposed surface that is a negative value and less than about -0.1, whereby sputtered material generated by a plasma in a plasma processing chamber may adhere to the textured exposed surface. 32. A wall according to claim 31 wherein the average skewness is an average of a plurality of measured skewness values that range from about -0.7 to about 0.1. 33. A wall according to claim 31 wherein the plasma sprayed ceramic coating comprises a porosity of from about 5% to about 10%. 34. A wall according to claim 31 wherein the roughened surface has a roughness average of from about 360 to about 400 microinches. 35. A wall according to claim 31 wherein the dielectric material comprises quartz or aluminum oxide. 