The invention is an adhesive composition comprising a) i) a trialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane wherein the polyether or polyurethane has a weight average molecular weight of 6000 or greater and a dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate; or ii) a dialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane and a dialkyltin alcoholate; and b) a primary or secondary amino straight chain alkyl trialkoxysilane; wherein the dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate is present in an effective amount to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate of from about 0.1 to about 1.0 percent by weight based on the weight of the adhesive and the primary or secondary amino straight chained alkyl trialkoxysilane is present in an amount which is effective to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate wherein the amount is from about 0.5 to about 1.2 percent by weight.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adhesive composition comprising a) i) a trialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane wherein the polyether or polyurethane has a weight average molecular weight of 6000 or greater and a dialkyltin carboxy late or dialkyltin alcoholate; or ii) a dialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane and a dialkyltin alcoholate; and b) a secondary amino straight chain alkyl trialkoxysilane; wherein the dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate is present in an effective amount to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate of from about 0.1 to about 1.0 percent by weight based on the weight of the adhesive and the secondary amino straight chained alkyl trialkoxysilane is present in an amount which is effective to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate wherein the amount is from about 0.5 to about 1.2 percent by weight. 2. The composition according to claim 1 wherein the amino alkyl trialkoxysilane corresponds to the formula 3. The adhesive of claim 2 wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-6 alkyl; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-6 alkylene; and R.sup.9 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-6 alkyl. 4. The adhesive of claim 3 wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-3 alkyl; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.2-4 alkylene; and R.sup.9 is C.sub.1-2 alkyl. 5. The adhesive of claim 3 wherein the R.sup.8 is propylene; and R.sup.9 is methyl. 6. The adhesive of claim 5 wherein x is 0 and y is 2. 7. The adhesive of claim 2 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin alcoholate. 8. The adhesive of claim 7 wherein the catalyst is present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight. 9. The adhesive of claim 8 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin bis acetylacetonate. 10. An adhesive composition comprising a) i) a trialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane wherein the polyether or polyurethane backbone has a weight average molecular weight of 10,000 or greater and a dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate; or ii) a dialkoxysilane functional polyether or polyurethane and a dialkyltin alcoholate; and b) a primary or secondary amino straight chain alkyl trialkoxysilane; wherein the dialkyltin carboxylate or dialkyltin alcoholate is present in an effective amount to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate of from about 0.1 to about 1.0 percent by weight based on the weight of the adhesive and the primary or secondary amino straight chained alkyl trialkoxysilane is present in an amount which is effective to facilitate bonding of the adhesive to a substrate wherein the amount is from about 0.5 to about 1.2 percent by weight. 11. The composition according to claim 10 wherein the amino alkyl trialkoxysilane corresponds to the formula 12. The adhesive of claim 11 wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-6 alkyl or C.sub.1-6 alkylamino; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-6 alkylene; and R.sup.9 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-6 alkyl. 13. The adhesive of claim 12 wherein R.sup.7 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.1-3 alkyl or C.sub.1-3 alkylamino; R.sup.8 is independently in each occurrence C.sub.2-4 alkylene; and R.sup.9 is C.sub.1-2 alkyl. 14. The adhesive of claim 12 wherein the R.sup.7 is ethylamino; R.sup.8 is propylene; and R.sup.9 is methyl. 15. The adhesive of claim 14 wherein x is 0 and y is 2. 16. The adhesive of claim 11 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin alcoholate. 17. The adhesive of claim 16 wherein the catalyst is present in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 percent by weight. 18. The adhesive of claim 17 wherein the catalyst is a dialkyltin bis acetylacetonate. 