An apparatus and fire protection system for detecting and extinguishing a spark, flame, or fire on a heat sensitive explosive object, which identifies, locates and relays vital information related to the particular endangered explosive object. The invention can be used to protect any heat sensitive object from thermal damage, explosive or not. Thermal energy activates a power supply, which powers the system, including a plurality of status sensor circuits that determine the status of the source of thermal energy. Each source of thermal energy is individually encoded to relay traits specific to the particular hazardous item, such as cook-off rate, type of energetic material and detonation temperature. Ultimately, all the information from the plurality of circuits and the EEPROM is relayed to personnel via the main system status display board. This permits personnel to become aware of a potential threat and monitor efforts to subdue the threat.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fire fighting protection system, comprising: means for detecting thermal radiation emitted by a heat source; means for converting said thermal radiation to electrical energy operably coupled to said means for detecting thermal radiation; means for providing transmission source(s) wherein first data signals are generated; means for providing said electrical energy that charges to a specified level which initiates and continuously monitors temperature and temperature changes to at least one status sensor and a transmitter, wherein said transmitter receives said first data signals from at least one said status sensor, and wherein said transmitter generates second data signals; means for generating and communicating said second data signals from said transmitter, wherein said means for generating and communicating said second data signals further transmits said second data signals from said transmitter; means for receiving said second data signals from said transmitter; means for accurately locating said transmitter; and means for analyzing said second data signals, wherein analyzing means triangulates said location of said heat source. 2. The fire protection system of claim 1, further comprising means for cooling each said transmission source according to output from said means for analyzing said second data signals, wherein said cooling means interfaces with said analyzing means. 3. The fire protection system of claim 2, wherein said means for cooling each said transmission source, including a fire fighting agent apparatus is selected from the group consisting of sacrificial robot(s), automated turret system, and manually operated turret system. 4. The fire protection system of claim 2, wherein said means for cooling each said transmission source is continuous to keep said transmission source cool. 5. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for detecting thermal radiation emitted by a heat source is a thermal radiation detector. 6. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for converting said thermal radiation to electrical energy is a thermopile or at least one thermal battery. 7. The fire protection system of claim 6, further comprising a means for storing said electrical energy. 8. The fire protection system of claim 7, wherein said means for storing said electrical energy is at least one capacitor. 9. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said transmission source is selected from the group consisting of heat sensitive object type, environment temperatures, temperature rise rate, and time tags. 10. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said second data signals are transmitted at specific intervals to a centralized control system. 11. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for generating and communicating said second data signals is a sensor and transmitter device. 12. The fire protection system of claim 11, wherein said sensor and transmitter device includes components selected from the group consisting of a power supply, at least one temperature sensor, at least one transmitter, a controller, encoder, and voltage regulator. 13. The fire protection system of claim 11, wherein said sensor and transmitter device is on a thin film or strip. 14. The fire protection system of claim 12, wherein said controller is a data processor. 15. The fire protection system of claim 12, wherein said encoder is an RF data link. 16. The fire protection system of claim 1, further comprises a centralized control system. 17. The fire protection system of claim 16, wherein said centralized control system operates fire fighting agent apparatuses depending on the information of said second data signals. 18. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for receiving said second data signals from said transmitter is a receiver and receiver antenna. 19. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for accurately locating said transmitter is a fixed detector and sensor system. 20. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for accurately locating said transmitter includes a receiver and beacon locator. 21. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for analyzing said second data signals includes a plurality of fixed sensor and detectors that analyze said second data signals for triangulating a plurality of second data signals to locate position of said transmission source, analyzing heat sensitive object type and location, analyzing heat sensitive temperature and heat up rate, calculating time to cook-off of heat sensitive object, controlling sacrificial robot(s) and turret(s), controlling amount of fire protection hardware applied to said transmission source, managing a feedback control system to determine whether to continue or cease the fire fighting apparatus, or providing an adaptive control system that analyzes real time data to shift fire fighting resource(s) to another transmission source. 22. The fire protection system of claim 1, further comprising means for generating an alarm, wherein said means for alarm generating and activating said alarm is a centralized control system. 23. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said at least one status sensor includes a temperature sensor, wherein said means for storing said electrical energy charges to a specified level then initiates said temperature sensor. 24. The fire protection system of claim 1, further comprising an erasable programmable read-only memory, wherein said erasable programmable read-only non-volatile memory that stores each said data signal information. 25. The fire protection system of claim 24, wherein said non-volatile memory is at least one EEPROM. 26. The fire protection system of claim 12, wherein said encoder converts input from each of said at least one sensor to a digital output and wherein said digital output is sent to said transmitter. 27. The fire protection system of claim 1, wherein said means for generating and communicating said second data signals includes at least one transmit antenna which provides an omni-directional beacon. 28. The fire protection system of claim 2, wherein said means for cooling is at least one turret, wherein said at least one turret sprays said heat source with a cooling agent. 29. The fire protection system of claim 28, wherein said cooling agent is selected from the group consisting of foam, AFFF, water and seawater. 30. An apparatus for a fire protection system, comprising: a thermal radiation detector, wherein said thermal radiation detector senses thermal radiation emitted by a heat source; means for converting said thermal radiation to electrical energy operably coupled to said thermal radiation detector; means to initiate at least one status sensor and a transmitter, wherein said transmitter generates a data signal; a data signal generator and communicator, wherein said data signal generator and communicator transmits said data signal according to an output from said transmitter; at least one location sensor and detector, wherein said at least one location sensor detects an omni-directional beacon emitted from said transmitter and produces a location of said signal; and a location signal analyzer, wherein said location signal analyzer analyzes said location signal and triangulates a position of said heat source. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprises an energy storage device, wherein said electrical energy is stored at a specified level then initiates at least one status sensor and a transmitter, wherein said transmitter generates a data signal. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said energy storage device is at least one capacitor. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising at least one turret, wherein said at least one turret sprays cooling agent on said heat source according to output from said location signal analyzer. 34. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprises an alarm, wherein said alarm interfaces with a transmitter. 35. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said cooling agent is selected from the group consisting of AFFF, water and seawater. 36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said at least one status sensor including a temperature sensor, wherein said means for storing said electrical energy charges to a specified level then initiates said temperature sensor. 37. The apparatus of claim 32, further comprising a power regulator, wherein said power regulator regulates said electrical energy from a capacitor to provide a consistent direct current. 38. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising an erasable programmable read-only non-volatile memory, wherein said erasable programmable read-only memory stores heat source information. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein said non-volatile memory is EEPROM. 40. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising an encoder, wherein said encoder converts input from each of said at least one status sensor to a digital output and wherein said digital output is sent to said transmitter. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein said encoder converts input from each of said at least one status sensor and an erasable programmable read-only non-volatile memory to a digital output and wherein said digital output is sent to said transmitter. 42. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said data signal generator and communicator said data signal is at least one transmit antenna. 43. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said thermal energy to electrical energy converter is a thermopile or thermal battery. 44. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising an alarm, wherein said alarm interfaces with said transmitter and said alarm is activated upon generation of said data signal. 45. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a centralized control system having a display board, wherein said display board shows status sensor information and heat source information received from said data signal. 46. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said fire protection system is automated. 47. A sensor and transmitter device for a fire protection system, comprising: a plurality of transmitters at least one status sensor for sensing thermal energy and producing a data signal; at least one converter for converting said thermal energy to electrical energy; at least one controller to process said data signal; at least one encoder to convert input from each said status sensor to a digital output and wherein said digital output is sent to said transmitter; and each said transmitter having at least one omni-directional beacon, said omni-directional beacon emitted from said transmitter for transmitting said data signal from said encoder. 48. The apparatus in claim 47, wherein said converter is a thermopile or thermal battery. 49. The apparatus in claim 48, further comprising an electrical storage means being a capacitor. 50. The apparatus in claim 47, wherein said controller is a data processor. 51. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein said encoder is an RF data link. 