A method for mounting interior vehicle trim parts in which two trim parts are supported adjacent one another and in which a bead of buffer material is disposed between mating surfaces of the two trim parts. The bead is included to reduce noises such as buzzes, squeaks and rattles produced by contact and relative motion between the first and second trim parts at their mating surfaces. The bead is mechanically locked into a recess in one of the mating surfaces by forming a recess in the mating surface then applying buffer material in the recess. The buffer material is applied in such a way as to form the bead. The bead is allowed to mechanically connect to the first trim part as a result of the hardening of the buffer material within the recess.
Claims We claim: 1. A method to reduce noise between adjacent interior vehicle trim parts in which a first trim part is supported adjacent a second trim part and in which a bead of buffer material is provided between the first and second trim parts to reduce noises produced by contact and relative motion between the first and second trim parts, the method including the steps of: providing the first and second trim parts, the first trim part having a peripheral mating edge configured to lie adjacent a peripheral mating edge of the second part when the first and second trim parts are supported adjacent one another and wherein said first and second trim parts are not adhered to one another; forming a recess having an undercut portion in the peripheral mating edge of the first trim part after providing the first trim part, in which the step of forming a recess includes the steps of: providing a robot operatively connected to a recess-forming tool; and operating the robot to move the forming tool into and along the mating edge of the first trim part: providing buffer material in the recess and overfilling said recess, in which the step of providing buffer material includes the steps of: providing a robot operatively connected to an applicator; connecting a source of buffer material to the applicator, the buffer material being in fluid communication with the applicator; and operating the robot to move the applicator in spaced generally parallel relationship with the peripheral mating edge of the first trim part while projecting buffer material into the recess and onto the mating edge of the first trim part; and allowing said buffer material to harden so as to provide a bead of buffer material on the peripheral mating edge of the first trim part; allowing the bead to mechanically lock to the first trim part by hardening of the buffer material within the recess; and supporting the first and second trim parts adjacent one another with the second trim part contacting the bead of buffer material such that the bead is compressed between the first and second trim parts wherein the buffer material does not adhere to the second trim part. 2. The method of claim 1, in which the applicator comprises an extrusion head, and the buffer material is extruded through the extrusion head. 3. The method of claim 1 in which the step of providing buffer material includes providing an elastomeric material. 4. The method of claim 1 in which the step of providing buffer material includes selecting the buffer material from a group consisting of thermoplastic elastomers and thermosetting elastomers. 5. The method of claim 4 in which the step of providing buffer material includes selecting thermoplastic urethane as a buffer material. 6. The method of claim 1 in which the robot operatively connected to the recess-forming tool and the robot operatively connected to the applicator are the same and operating the robot to simultaneously move the forming tool into and along the mating edge of the first trim part while moving the applicator in spaced generally parallel relationship with the mating edge and in trailing relationship to the recess-forming tool, the trailing applicator providing buffer material in the recess formed by the preceding forming tool so as to overfill the recess and provide a bead of buffer material on the mating edge of the first trim part. 7. The method of claim 1 in which the recess-forming tool comprises a router having a router bit configured to form a recess of desired cross sectional shape. 8. The method of claim 1 including the additional step of locating the second trim part in an opening in the first trim part, the mating edges being an outer peripheral edge of the second trim part and an inner edge of the first trim part surrounding and defining the opening in the first trim part, the additional step following the step of allowing the buffer material to mechanically lock to the first trim part. 