Devices and methods are disclosed for synthesizing compounds on the surface of supports. The devices are flow devices, which include a housing comprising a housing chamber. The housing has an opening adapted for insertion of a support into the housing chamber. A sealing member is movably mounted in the housing chamber and adapted to engage the support to form a reagent chamber between a surface of the support and a surface of the sealing member. A mechanism is included for moving the sealing member within the housing chamber. The device has both an inlet and an outlet, which are both in fluid communication with the reagent chamber. In the methods of the invention a support is placed into a chamber of a device such as described above. The mechanism adapted to engage the support on a surface opposite the surface engaged by the sealing member is activated to urge the support toward the sealing member. The pressure-activated mechanism is activated to urge the support against the aforesaid mechanism and against an interior wall of the housing chamber to form the reagent chamber. A fluid reagent for conducting the reaction step is introduced into the reagent chamber by means of the inlet. Thereafter, the fluid reagent is removed from the reagent chamber. The pressure-activated mechanism is deactivated and the support is removed from the housing chamber. In this way the reagent chamber is formed and un-formed in situ.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flow device comprising: (a) a housing comprising a housing chamber, (b) an opening in said housing adapted for insertion of a support into said housing chamber, (c) a sealing member movably mounted in said housing chamber and adapted to engage said support to form a reagent chamber between a surface of said support and a surface of said sealing member, (d) a mechanism for moving said sealing member within said housing chamber, (e) a mechanism adapted to engage and hold said support, during said insertion, on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member and, in cooperation with said mechanism of step (d), to move said support engaged by said sealing member within said housing chamber, (f) an inlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber and (g) an outlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber. 2. A device according to claim 1 further comprising a viewing area in a wall of said housing adapted to view a surface of said support. 3. A device according to claim 2 wherein said viewing area is a window in a wall of said housing. 4. A device according to claim 3 wherein said mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member moves said support against said wall. 5. A device according to claim 4 wherein said mechanism adapted to engage said support comprises two to four pressure-activated cylinders, each of which is disposed in a port in said window. 6. A device according to claim 1 wherein said support is engaged by a holding element and said opening in said housing is adapted to receive said support secured by said holding element. 7. A device according to claim 6 wherein said holding element is a vacuum actuated element. 8. A device according to claim 6 wherein said holding element is part of a robotic arm. 9. A device according to claim 1 further comprising a pressure-activated mechanism to which said sealing member is attached. 10. A device according to claim 9 wherein said pressure-activated mechanism is a pressure-activated cylinder. 11. A device according to claim 10 wherein said cylinder further comprises a guide. 12. A flow device comprising: (a) a housing comprising a housing chamber, (b) an opening in said housing adapted for insertion of a holding element comprising a support into said housing chamber, (c) a sealing member movably mounted in said housing chamber and adapted to engage said support to form a reagent chamber between a surface of said support and a surface of said sealing member, wherein said sealing member is attached to a pressure-activated mechanism for moving said sealing member within said housing chamber without movement of said housing, (d) a mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member, (e) an inlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber, (f) an outlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber, and (g) a viewing area in a wall of said housing adapted to view a surface of said support. 13. A device according to claim 12 wherein said viewing area is a window in a wall of said housing. 14. A device according to claim 12 wherein said mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member comprises two to four pressure-activated cylinders, each of which is disposed in a port in said window. 15. A device according to claim 14 wherein said holding element is a vacuum actuated element. 16. A device according to claim 15 wherein said holding element is part of a robotic arm. 17. A device according to claim 12 said pressure-activated mechanism is a pressure-activated cylinder within a guide. 18. A device according to claim 12 wherein said device is rotatably mounted on a frame. 19. A flow device comprising: (a) a sealing member adapted for sealing engagement with a support to form a reagent chamber in situ and a first mechanism adapted to move said sealing member, (b) a second mechanism adapted to engage and hold said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member and, in cooperation with said first mechanism, to move said reagent chamber, (c) an inlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber, and (d) an outlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber. 20. A flow device comprising: (a) a housing comprising a housing chamber, (b) an opening in said housing adapted for insertion of a support into said housing chamber, (c) a sealing member movably mounted in said housing chamber and adapted to engage said support to form a reagent chamber between a surface of said support and a surface of said sealing member, (d) a mechanism for moving said sealing member within said housing chamber wherein said mechanism comprises a pressure-activated cylinder, (e) an inlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber, and (f) an outlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber. 21. A flow device comprising: (a) a housing comprising a housing chamber, (b) an opening in said housing adapted for insertion of a holding element comprising a support into said housing chamber, (c) a sealing member movably mounted in said housing chamber and adapted to engage said support to form a reagent chamber between a surface of said support and a surface of said sealing member, wherein said sealing member is attached to a pressure-activated mechanism for moving said sealing member within said housing chamber, (d) a mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member, (e) an inlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber, and (f) an outlet in fluid communication with said reagent chamber, and wherein said holding element is a vacuum actuated element for holding said support and said device further comprises a mechanism for moving the vacuum actuated element from said flow device to another flow device. 22. A device according to claim 21 wherein the vacuum actuated element comprises at least two prongs. 23. A device according to claim 21 wherein the mechanism is part of a robotic arm. 24. A device according to claim 20 wherein said viewing area is a window in a wall of said housing. 25. A device according to claim 20 wherein said mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member comprises two to four pressure-activated cylinders, each of which is disposed in a port in said window. 26. A device according to claim 25 wherein said holding element is a vacuum actuated element. 27. A device according to claim 26 wherein said holding element is part of a robotic arm. 28. A device according to claim 20 said pressure-activated cylinder is within a guide. 29. A device according to claim 20 wherein said device is rotatably mounted on a frame. 30. A flow device according to claim 19 wherein said first mechanism for moving said sealing member moves said sealing member into engagement with said support. 31. A flow device according to claim 30 wherein said second mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member and said first mechanism for moving said sealing member into engagement with said support cooperate to move said support against a wall. 32. A flow device according to claim 31 additionally comprising a window in the wall. 33. A flow device according to claim 30 comprising said support in engagement with said second mechanism adapted to engage said support on a surface opposite said surface engaged by said sealing member and said first mechanism for moving said sealing member into engagement with said support, wherein said support comprises a chemical array. 