An x-ray imaging system is presenting having two independently articulated arms supporting an x-ray tube and x-ray detector, respectively. The detector is included in a detector assembly that further includes a display and user interface for controlling the arms. The detector assembly further includes at least one lead shield that is extendable to protect an operator stationed at the display during use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An x-ray imaging system comprising: an x-ray source producing an x-ray beam directed along a source axis; an x-ray detector assembly including a frame supporting a detector for detecting x-rays received along a detector axis aligned with the source axis, and a user interface mounted to the frame; a first and second articulated arm each having at least two independent axes of motion, the first articulated arm holding the x-ray source at its first end, the second articulated arm holding the x-ray detector at its first end; at least one extendable x-ray blocking shield connected to the frame that is movable in a longitudinal direction between a retracted and extended configuration via an opening extending through a first end of the frame. 2. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a second stationary x-ray blocking shield mounted to the frame between the detector and the interface. 3. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a pair of guide rails extending longitudinally within the detector assembly, wherein lateral ends of the shield are supported by the guide rails. 4. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a roller mounted to the frame and supporting the shield. 5. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 4, wherein the roller is disposed at an opposite end of the frame from the opening. 6. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 4, wherein the roller is disposed proximal the opening. 7. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein the shield is disposed between the detector and the interface when in the retracted configuration. 8. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a bracket that is pivotally mounted to the detector assembly, wherein the shield is supported by the bracket when in the extended configuration. 9. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a bracket that is mounted to the detector assembly and configured for lateral movement with respect thereto, wherein the shield is supported by the bracket when in the extended configuration. 10. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein the shield assumes a U-shaped configuration when retracted. 11. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 10, wherein the shield comprises a first portion extending across the user interface and a second portion that is extendable beyond the detector assembly. 12. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a second x-ray blocking shield extendable through an opening in a second end of the frame opposite the first end. 13. The x-ray imaging system as recited in claim 1, wherein the shield is a lead shield. 14. An integrated x-ray imaging detector assembly for use in an x-ray imaging system, the detector assembly comprising: a support frame; an x-ray detector module supported by the frame and operable to receive a beam of x-rays emitted from an x-ray source and passed through a target along a detector axis, and further operable to produce electrical signals in response to the received beam of x-rays; a display terminal supported by the frame and disposed behind the detector module with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel, the display terminal being configured to receive the electrical signals and produce an output image corresponding to the electrical signals; and at least one extendable x-ray blocking shield connected to the frame that is movable in a longitudinal direction between a retracted and extended configuration via an opening extending through the frame. 15. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein the display terminal is aligned with the beam of source x-rays. 16. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein the display terminal is rotatable with respect to the support frame while maintaining registration between the image and the detector module. 17. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 14, further comprising a second x-ray blocking shield disposed between the x-ray detector and the display terminal and extending substantially parallel therewith. 18. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein the display is a flat panel display. 19. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein the support frame is supported by an articulated arm that has at least two independent axes of motion with respect to the target. 20. The x-ray imaging detector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the image is viewable while the display terminal extends normally with respect to the detector axis and is aligned with the detector module. 