A non-destructive inspection, testing and evaluation system and process is provided for the review of aircraft components. The system provides for a structure configured to contain an inspection and testing apparatus and the aircraft components under inspection. The structure is lined with shielding to attenuate the emission of radiation to the outside of the structure and has corbels therein to support the components that constitute the inspection and testing apparatus. The inspection and testing apparatus is coupled to the structure, resulting in the formation of a gantry for supporting a carriage and a mast is mounted on the carriage. The inspection and testing equipment is mounted on the mast which forms, in part, at least one radiographic inspection robot capable of precise positioning over large ranges of motion. The carriage is coupled to the mast for supporting and allowing translation of the equipment mounted on the mast. The mast is configured to provide yaw movement to the equipment.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for intact testing of aircraft, comprising, in combination: means for scanning the intact aircraft, said scanning means mounted on a robot, said robot free standing with respect to the aircraft; and comparison means to correlate data from the scanning means to a standard. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said scanning means includes means to move in three linear directions and about three axes. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including means to align said robot relative to the aircraft. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means to align comprise reference markers located on the aircraft. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robot includes a scanning head with means to move in three linear, orthogonally offset directions and three rotational directions. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further including collision--avoidance means on said scanning means to prevent gross contact with the aircraft. 7. An apparatus for intact testing of aircraft, comprising, in combination: means for scanning the intact aircraft mounted on a robot; and comparison means to correlate data from the scanning means to a standard wherein said scanning means includes ultrasonics further including a structure configured to contain said apparatus and said aircraft under inspection, and with shielding to attenuate emissions or radiation to the outside of said structure; said apparatus is coupled to said structure, resulting in the formation of a gantry for supporting a carriage, a mast mounted on said carriage and at least one of an electromagnetic radiation emitter and electromagnetic radiation detector mounted on said mast which forms in part at least one radiographic inspection robot capable of precise positioning over large ranges of motion; said at least one radiographic inspection robot further comprises a beam structure for supporting and allowing horizontal translation of said carriage; said carriage is coupled to said mast, wherein said mast supports and allows a vertical translation of said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector mounted on said mast, and wherein said mast structure is configured to provide yaw movement of said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector; and said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector is configured to provide rotation about at least one axis of pitch, roll and yaw motion of said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said at least one of electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector is configured to a yoke to provide rotation about at least one of axis of pitch and roll motion of said at least one of electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector; said yoke includes first and second members capable of adjusting distance between said members; said first member supports a beam source; and said second member supports at least one of a beam detector or an imaging device. 9. An apparatus for intact testing of aircraft, comprising, in combination: means for scanning the intact aircraft mounted on a robot; comparison means to correlate data from the scanning means to a standard wherein said scanning means includes ultrasonics further comprising a hanger having a controlled environment, said hanger dimensioned to receive the aircraft therewithin; said robotic scanning means supported by said hanger and including means to move a scanning head of said robotic scanning means in three linear directions and three rotational directions; means to initialize said scanning head both with respect to said hanger and with respect to the aircraft; and means to correlate data derived from scanning the airplane to a standard. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising means to shield the hanger from radiation generated by said scanning head to prevent radiation from projecting there beyond. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising means to hold the plane in a constant position in said hanger. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising means to assess gross distortion of airplane geometry. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising said scanning head generating a laser scan. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 comprising said scanning head generating a neutron scan. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 comprising said scanning head generating an x-ray scan. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 comprising said scanning head generating a reverse geometry scan. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said scanning means includes n-ray. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said scanning means includes x-ray. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said scanning means includes reverse geometry. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said scanning means includes ultrasonics. 21. An apparatus for intact testing of aircraft, comprising, in combination: means for scanning the intact aircraft said scanning means mounted on a robot; a hanger having a controlled environment, said hanger dimensioned to receive the aircraft therewithin; said robotic scanning means supported by said hanger and including means to move a scanning head of said robotic scanning means in three linear directions and three rotational directions; means to initialize said scanning head both with respect to said hanger and with respect to the aircraft; means to correlate data derived from scanning the airplane to a standard; and comparison means to compare data from the scanning means and the standard. 22. An apparatus for intact testing of aircraft, comprising, in combination: means for scanning the intact aircraft, said scanning means mounted on a robot; and comparison means to correlate data from the scanning means to a standard; further including a structure configured to contain said apparatus and said aircraft under inspection, and with shielding to attenuate emissions or radiation to the outside of said structure; said apparatus is coupled to said structure, resulting in the formation of a gantry for supporting a carriage, a mast mounted on said carriage and at least one of an electromagnetic radiation emitter and electromagnetic radiation detector mounted on said mast which forms in part at least one radiographic inspection robot capable of precise positioning over large ranges of motion; said at least one radiographic inspection robot further comprises a beam structure for supporting and allowing horizontal translation of said carriage; said carriage is coupled to said mast, wherein said mast supports and allows a vertical translation of said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector mounted on said mast, and wherein said mast structure is configured to provide yaw movement of said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector; and said at least one of electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector is configured to provide rotation about at least one axis of pitch, roll and yaw motion of said at least one electromagnetic radiation emitter and detector. 