Robotic apparatus for transferring and distributing small particles, such as seeds, contained in covered or uncovered containers, such as capped jars, are disclosed. An exemplary apparatus includes a vacuum-activated probe configured to pick up a selected number of seeds from a donor container and to deposit the seeds in a selected recipient container. The seeds being transferred may be weighed during the transfer process by depositing the seeds in a crucible of a microgram balance or analogous device. After weighing, the seeds are picked up using a second probe that transfers the seeds to a recipient container. Also disclosed are automated methods for transferring and weighing particles, such as seeds.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic apparatus for handling particles, comprising: a robotic assembly configured to move in three-dimensional space; and a particle manipulator carried by the robotic assembly, the particle manipulator being positionable by the robotic assembly at selected locations in the three-dimensional space, the particle manipulator comprising a probe having an end surface defining a plurality of apertures, wherein each aperture is dimensioned smaller than a particle; the probe being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the probe is effective to cause the end surface of the probe to pick up particles whenever the end surface of the probe is positioned at a selected first location proximate to the particles, and wherein release of the vacuum from the probe causes the end surface of the probe to release the particles at a selected second location, wherein the second location is the same as or different from the first location. 2. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end surface of the probe comprises a plate defining a selected number of apertures, each dimensioned smaller than a particle, and the number approximately corresponding to the number of particles to be picked up at one time by the probe, wherein application of the vacuum is effective to cause the probe to pick up approximately one particle per aperture. 3. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end surface of the probe comprises a mesh screen having a mesh size smaller than a particle, wherein application of the vacuum is effective to cause the end surface to pick up one or more particles. 4. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the probe is a first probe, and the particle manipulator further comprises a second probe, the first probe having an end plate defining a selected number of openings for picking up a corresponding selected number of particles upon application of vacuum to the first probe, and the second probe having a fine-mesh end surface that is capable of picking up an undefined number particles, wherein the number is one or more. 5. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the probe is fluidly connected to a pressurized fluid source for selectively introducing a pressurized fluid into the probe to facilitate release of the particles from the end surface of the probe. 6. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a cover-removal manipulator for removing and replacing a cover on a container containing the particles. 7. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a particle-weighing device situated and configured to receive particles from the probe for weighing. 8. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a particle-donor area and a particle-receiving area, the particle-donor area being configured to accommodate at least one donor container, and the particle-receiving area being configured to accommodate at least one recipient container, wherein the robotic assembly is configured to move the particle manipulator to the donor area to pick up particles from the donor container with the probe and to move the particle manipulator to the particle-receiving area to deposit particles from the probe in the recipient container. 9. The robotic apparatus of claim 3 wherein each aperture is about 100 to 150 microns in diameter. 10. A robotic apparatus for moving particles from a first container to a second container, comprising: a cover-removal manipulator for removing and replacing a cover on the first container containing the particles; and a particle manipulator for removing particles from the first container, the particle manipulator comprising a probe having an end surface defining at least one opening dimensioned smaller than a particle; the probe being connectable to a vacuum source, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the probe is effective to cause the end surface of the probe to pick up particles whenever the end surface of the probe is positioned in the first container proximate to the particles, and the particle manipulator being configured to move the probe to the second container, wherein release of the vacuum from the probe causes the end surface of the probe to release the particles in the second container, wherein the second container can be the same or different from the first container. 11. The robotic apparatus of claim 10, wherein the cover-removal manipulator and the particle manipulator are mounted to and carried by a robotic assembly configured to move in x, y and z directions to position the cover-removal manipulator and particle manipulator at selected x-y-z positions. 12. The robotic apparatus of claim 10, wherein the cover-removal manipulator and particle manipulator are configured to move independently of each other to respective selected x-y-z positions. 13. The robotic apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a transfer area for supporting at least one donor first container and at least one recipient second container, wherein the cover-removal manipulator is configured to move to selected positions in three-dimensional space with respect to the transfer area for removing and replacing respective covers on the donor and recipient containers, and the particle manipulator is configured to move to selected positions in three-dimensional space with respect to the transfer area to remove a predetermined number of particles from the donor container and to deposit the particles to the recipient container. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a cleaning station for cleaning the probe. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the cleaning station comprises a housing defining a port for receiving the probe, the cleaning station being connectable to a pressurized fluid source for selectively introducing a pressurized fluid into the housing for removing debris from the probe whenever the probe is inserted into the port. 16. A robotic apparatus for handling small particles, comprising: a robotic assembly configured to move in x, y and z directions that are mutually perpendicular to each other; and a particle manipulator carried by the robotic assembly, the particle manipulator being positionable by the robotic assembly at selected x-y-z positions, the particle manipulator comprising a first probe having an apertured surface adapted to pick up onto the surface a selected number of particles from a population of the particles, the particle manipulator also comprising a second probe having an air-pervious end surface adapted to pick up onto its respective end surface one or more particles, the first and second probes being movable independently of each other in a generally vertical direction; the first probe being connectable to a vacuum source, wherein whenever vacuum is applied to the first probe and the apertured surface is positioned at a selected x-y-z position proximate to the population of particles, the first probe picks up the selected number of particles and thus separates the selected number of particles from the population; the second probe being connectable to a vacuum source, wherein whenever vacuum is applied to the second probe and the end surface of the second probe is positioned at a selected x-y-z position proximate to a population of particles, the second probe picks up one or more particles. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the particles comprise a population of seeds stored in a container, and the first probe defines a selected number of apertures approximately corresponding to the selected number of seeds to be picked up from the population. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the number of apertures is in a range of about 5 to 25. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the apertures are about 100 to 150 microns in diameter. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the second probe has a meshed end surface, wherein whenever vacuum is applied to the probe of the second probe and the meshed end surface is positioned at a selected x-y-z position proximate to a population of particles, the second probe picks up an undefined number of particles from the population. 21. The robotic apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a cover-removal manipulator mounted to the robotic assembly, the cover-removal manipulator being configured for removing and replacing a cover on a container containing the particles. 22. An apparatus for transferring seeds comprising: a robot means configured to move in three-dimensional space; a plurality of donor containers, each containing a respective population of seeds and positioned at a respective location in three-dimensional space; a plurality of recipient containers for receiving seeds from one or more donor containers, each recipient container being positioned at a respective location in three-dimensional space; seed-manipulator means carried by the robot means, the robot means being configured to position the seed-manipulator means at a plurality of selected locations in three-dimensional space so as to allow the seed-manipulator means to remove a selected one or more seeds from the donor containers and to position the seed-manipulator at a plurality of selected locations in three-dimensional space so as to allow the seed-manipulator means to deposit seeds into one or more recipient containers; and a control means operatively connected to the robot means and to the seed-manipulator means, the control means being configured to cause the robot means to move the seed-manipulator means to a selected first location in three-dimensional space such that the seed-manipulator means is positioned to remove one or more seeds from a selected first donor container of said plurality of donor containers, to activate the seed-manipulator means to pick up one or more seeds from the selected donor container, to cause the robot means to move the seed-manipulator means to a selected second location in three-dimensional space such that the seed-manipulator means is positioned to deposit the picked-up seeds into a selected first recipient container of said plurality of recipient containers, and to deactivate the seed-manipulator means to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected recipient container. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising cover-removal means for removing and replacing a cover on a container containing the seeds. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising seed-weighing means situated and configured to receive seeds from the seed-manipulator means for weighing. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the control means is configured to receive user input specifying the selected donor container from which seeds are to be removed. 26. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the control means is configured to cause the robot means to move the seed-manipulator means to a selected third location in three-dimensional space such that the seed-manipulator means is positioned to remove one or more seeds from a selected second donor container of said plurality of donor containers, to activate the seed-manipulator means to pick up one or more seeds from the selected second donor container, to cause the robot means to move the seed-manipulator means to a selected fourth location in three-dimensional space such that the seed-manipulator means is positioned to deposit the picked-up seeds into a selected second recipient container of said plurality of recipient containers, and to deactivate the seed-manipulator means to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected second recipient container. 27. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the control means is configured to cause the robot means to move the seed-manipulator means to a selected third location in three-dimensional space such that the seed-manipulator means is positioned to remove one or more seeds from a selected second donor container of said plurality of donor containers, to activate the seed-manipulator means to pick up one or more seeds from the selected second donor container, to cause the robot means to move the seed-manipulator means to the selected second location in three-dimensional space such that the seed-manipulator means is positioned to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected first recipient container, and to deactivate the seed-manipulator means to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected first recipient container. 28. An apparatus for weighing one or more articles and for transferring the articles between recipient and donor containers, comprising: a transfer area having a surface for supporting donor and recipient containers thereon; a robotic assembly configured for movement over the surface of the transfer area; a probe device carried by the robotic assembly, the probe device being configured for picking up and releasing a sample number of articles in respective containers at selected positions in the transfer area, said probe device including a first probe and a second probe, the first probe having a first-probe end plate defining a selected number of openings corresponding approximately to the number of articles to be picked up by the first probe, wherein application of vacuum to the first-probe end plate is effective to pick up approximately one article per opening, and the second probe having a second-probe end plate comprising a fine-mesh screen capable of picking up an undefined number, larger than the selected number, of articles; and a weighing station for receiving one or more articles therein from either of the first and second probes, and for weighing the received articles. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising a control unit operatively connected to the robotic assembly and to the probe device, the control unit being configured to successively activate the robotic assembly and the probe device to: move the robotic assembly to place the first probe in a position for picking up a quantity of articles, up to the selected number, from a donor container; activate the first probe to pick up from the donor container the quantity of articles up to the selected number, by applying a vacuum to the first probe; move the first probe with picked-up articles to a position proximate said weighing station; deactivate the first probe by releasing the vacuum, so as to deposit the articles carried on the first probe onto the weighing station; weigh the articles in the weighing station; move said robotic assembly to place the second probe in a position for picking up the articles from the weighing station; activate the second probe by applying a vacuum thereto to pick up the articles from the weighing station; and transfer the articles picked up by the second probe to a recipient container. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the weighing station comprises a scale effective to weigh articles deposited in the weighing station in the weight range of about 10 to 500 micrograms. 31. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the articles comprise seeds, and wherein the first probe is configured to pick up the selected number of seeds from a donor container containing a population of seeds. 32. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the donor and recipient containers each have a respective cover, and the apparatus further comprises a cover manipulator carried by the robotic assembly, the cover manipulator being configured to engage a container cover, remove the cover, and replace the cover. 33. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising a cleaning station situated and configured for cleaning the probe device. 34. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the cleaning station comprises a housing defining at least one port configured for receiving one of the first and second probes, the housing being connectable to a pressurized fluid source for introducing a pressurized fluid into the housing for removing debris from a probe inserted into the port. 35. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the probe device further comprises a pressurized gas source and a valve for selectively controlling application of gas from the gas source to the first and second probe so as to facilitate release of articles from the respective probe. 36. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein each opening is about 100 to 150 microns in diameter. 37. A robotic apparatus for handling particles, comprising: a robotic assembly configured to move in three-dimensional space; and a particle manipulator being positionable by the robotic assembly at selected locations in the three-dimensional space, the particle manipulator comprising a first probe and a second probe, the first probe having an apertured end surface defining a selected number of openings for picking up a corresponding selected number of particles upon application of vacuum to the first probe, and the second probe having an air-pervious end surface that is capable of picking up an undefined number of particles upon application of vacuum to the second probe; the first and second probes being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, wherein selective application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the probes is effective to cause the probe, and the second probe having an air-pervious end surface that is capable of picking up an undefined number of particles upon application of vacuum to the second probe; the first and second probes being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, wherein selective application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the probes is effective to cause the respective end surfaces of the probes to pick up particles whenever the end surfaces are positioned proximately to the particles, and wherein release of the vacuum from the probes causes the end surfaces to release the particles therefrom. 38. The robotic apparatus of claim 37, wherein the end surface of the second probe comprises a mesh screen. 39. The robotic apparatus of claim 37, wherein the first and second probes are configured to move independently of each other to respective z positions. 40. The robotic apparatus of claim 37, wherein the end surface of the first probe has a selected number of openings dimensioned to pick up a corresponding selected number of seeds upon application of vacuum to the first probe, and the second probe has an air-pervious end surface that is capable of picking up an undefined number of seeds upon application of vacuum to the second probe. 41. An apparatus for transferring seeds, comprising: a robotic assembly configured to move in three-dimensional space; a plurality of donor containers, each containing a respective population of seeds and positioned at a respective location in three-dimensional space; a plurality of recipient containers for receiving seeds from one or more donor containers, each recipient container being positioned at a respective location in three-dimensional space; and a probe carried by the robotic assembly and being fluidly connectable to a vacuum source, wherein application of a vacuum from the vacuum source to the probe is effective to cause the end surface of the probe to pick up seeds whenever the end surface is positioned proximate a population of seeds in one of said donor containers; the robotic assembly being configured to position the probe at a plurality of different locations in three-dimensional space so as to allow the probe to remove seeds from the donor containers and to position the probe at a plurality of different locations in three-dimensional space so as to allow the seed-manipulator probe to deposit seeds into one or more recipient containers. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, further comprising a control unit operatively connected to the robotic assembly and to the probe, the control unit being configured to cause the robotic assembly to move the probe to a selected first location in three-dimensional space such that the probe is positioned to remove one or more seeds from a selected first donor container of said plurality of donor containers, to activate the probe to pick up one or more seeds from the selected donor container, to cause the robotic assembly to move the probe to a selected second location in three-dimensional space such that the probe is positioned to deposit the picked-up seeds into a selected first recipient container of said plurality of recipient containers, and to deactivate the probe to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected recipient container. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, further comprising a seed-weighing device situated and configured to receive seeds from the probe for weighing, and wherein the control unit is configured to cause the robotic assembly to move the probe to the seed-weighing device after the probe picks up seeds from the selected first donor container, to deactivate the probe to deposit the picked-up seeds into the seed-weighing device, to activate the probe to pick up the seeds in the seed-weighing device after the seeds are weighed, and to cause the robotic assembly to move the probe to the selected second location for depositing the picked-up seeds into the selected first recipient container. 44. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the control unit is configured to cause the robotic assembly to move the probe to a selected third location in three-dimensional space such that the probe is positioned to remove one or more seeds from a selected second donor container of said plurality of donor containers, to activate the probe to pick up one or more seeds from the selected second donor container, to cause the robotic assembly to move the probe to the selected second location in three-dimensional space such that the probe is positioned to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected first recipient container, and to deactivate the probe to deposit the picked-up seeds into the selected first recipient container. 45. A robotic apparatus for handling seeds contained in covered or uncovered containers, comprising: a robot operable to move in three-dimensional space; a cover-removal manipulator coupled to the robot, the cover-removal manipulator being configured to remove and replace a cover on a container; a seed manipulator coupled to the robot, the seed manipulator comprising first and second probes, the first probe having an end plate defining a selected number of openings sized for picking up and removing a selected number of seeds from a container upon application of a vacuum to the first probe, and the second probe having a fine-mesh end surface that is configured to pick up an undefined number, larger than the selected number, of seeds upon application of a vacuum to the second probe; and a weighing apparatus for weighing seeds removed from a container by either probe. 