A system for scaling robotic mechanisms in a storage library is provided. The invention comprises a plurality of storage cell rows and a plurality of robots coupled to guide rails, which allow the robots to move along the rows of storage cells. The robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells. The displacement mechanisms on the robots are configurable to allow the picker mechanisms to access a specified number of storage cell rows. The displacement mechanisms of the robots can be reconfigured in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot, and guide rails can be added and removed to accommodate different numbers and sizes of robots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library, comprising: a plurality of rows of storage cells; and a plurality of robots coupled to guide rails, wherein the guide rails allow the robots to move along the rows of storage cells, and wherein the robots can pass each other; wherein the robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells, and wherein the displacement mechanisms on the robots are configurable to allow the picker mechanisms to access a specified number of storage cell rows, and wherein each robot covers specified rows of storage cells exclusive of the other robots. 2. The storage library according to claim 1, wherein displacement mechanisms of different sizes can be added an removed in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot. 3. The storage library according to claim 1, wherein the robots mount data storage cartridges from the storage cells into at least one cartridge player and dismount data storage cartridges from the cartridge player into the storage cells. 4. A storage library, comprising: a plurality of rows of storage cells; and a plurality of robots coupled to guide rails, wherein the guide rails allow the robots to move along the rows of storage cells, and wherein the robots can pass each other; wherein the robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells, and wherein the displacement mechanisms on the robots are configurable to allow the picker mechanisms to access a specified number of storage cell rows, and wherein the displacement mechanisms are of different sizes. 5. The storage library according to claim 4, wherein displacement mechanisms of different sizes can be added and removed in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot. 6. The storage library according to claim 4, wherein the robot mount data storage cartridges from the storage cells into at least one cartridge player and dismount data storage cartridges from the cartridge player into the storage cells. 7. A storage library, comprising: a plurality of rows of storage cells; and a plurality of robots coupled to guide rails, wherein the guide rails allow the robots to move along the rows of storage cells, and wherein the robots can pass each other; wherein the robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells, and wherein the displacement mechanisms on the robots are configurable to allow the picker mechanisms to access a specified number of storage cell rows, and wherein guide rails can be added and removed to accommodate different numbers of robots and sizes of displacement mechanism. 8. The storage library according to claim 7, wherein displacement mechanisms of different sizes can be added and removed in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot. 9. The storage library according to claim 7, wherein the robots mount data storage cartridges from the storage cells into at least one cartridge player and dismount data storage cartridges from the cartridge player into the storage cells. 10. A method in a storage library comprising a plurality of rows of storage cells and a plurality of robots on guide rails, wherein the robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells, wherein the robots can pass each other, the method comprising: configuring the displacement mechanisms on the robots to allow the picker mechanisms to access a plurality of storage cell rows, wherein each robot covers specified rows of storage cells exclusive of the other robots. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising: specifying a number of storage cell rows that a given robot may access; and configuring the displacement mechanism on the robot to allow the picker mechanism to access the specified number of storage cell rows. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: change the specified number of storage cell rows that a given robot may access; and reconfiguring the displacement mechanism on the robot to allow the picker mechanism to access the new specified number of storage cell rows. 13. The storage library according to claim 10, wherein displacement mechanisms of different sizes can be added and removed in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot. 14. The storage library according to claim 10, wherein the robots mount data storage cartridges from the storage cells into at least one cartridge player and dismount data storage cartridges from the cartridge player into the storage cells. 15. A method in a storage library comprising a plurality of rows of storage cells and a plurality of robots on guide rails, wherein the robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells, wherein the robots can pass each other, the method comprising: configuring the displacement mechanisms on the robots to allow the picker mechanisms to access a plurality of storage cell rows, wherein the displacement mechanisms are of different sizes. 16. The storage library according to claim 15, wherein displacement mechanisms of different sizes can be added and removed in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot. 17. The storage library according to claim 15, wherein the robots mount data storage cartridge from the storage cells into at least one cartridge player and dismount data storage cartridge from the cartridge player into the storage cells. 18. A method in a storage library comprising a plurality of rows of storage cells and a plurality of robots on guide rails, wherein the robots have picker mechanisms that can manipulate items in the storage cells, and displacement mechanisms that allow the pickers to move between rows of storage cells, wherein the robots can pass each other, the method comprising: configuring the displacement mechanisms on the robots to allow the picker mechanisms to access a plurality of storage cell rows, further comprising adding and removing guide rails to accommodate different numbers of robots and sizes of displacement mechanism. 19. The storage library according to claim 18 wherein displacement mechanisms of different sizes can be added and removed in order to change the number of storage cell rows covered by a single robot. 20. The storage library according to claim 18, wherein the robots mount data storage cartridges from the storage cells into at least one cartridge player and dismount data storage cartridges from the cartridge player into the storage cells. 