A wafer mapping system includes an imaging array, at least one lighting module and a controller coupled to the imaging array and the lighting module. The controller is adapted to receive information relative to an initial acquired wafer image and adjust illumination from the lighting module based upon the initial acquired wafer image, and acquire a subsequent wafer image using the adjusted illumination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer mapping system comprising: an imaging array; at least one lighting module; a processor coupled to the imaging array and the at least one lighting module; wherein the processor is adapted to receive information relative to an initial acquired wafer image and direct the at least one lighting module to adjust illumination intensity based upon the initial acquired wafer image; and wherein the imaging array acquires a subsequent wafer image using the adjusted illumination. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging array is a two-dimensional array. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the array is a Charge Coupled Device (CCD). 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the array is a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) device. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one lighting module includes a light emitting diode. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one lighting module includes a laser diode. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one lighting modules includes at pair of lighting modules each coupled to the processor. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is a digital signal processor. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is adapted to quantify brightness of the initial image, and calculate the adjusted illumination based upon the quantification. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is adapted to break the initial image into smaller regions and counts a number of saturated pixels in each region. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate the adjusted illumination based upon a sum of saturated pixels in two adjacent regions. 12. A method of mapping wafers, the method comprising the steps of: acquiring an initial image at an initial illumination intensity; processing the initial image to quantify image brightness; and adjusting illumination intensity based upon the a characteristic of the initial image; acquiring a subsequent image using the adjusted illumination intensity; and using at least the subsequent image to provide data for wafer mapping. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein processing the initial image includes counting a number of saturated pixels in the image. 14. A method of mapping wafers, the method comprising: a) illuminating a wafer slot position with an initial illumination intensity; b) determining if a wafer is in view of an imaging array; c) illuminating the wafer slot position with a maximum illumination intensity if a wafer was not in view at step b; d) acquiring a subsequent image of the wafer slot position at the maximum intensity; and e) determining if the subsequent image is not too bright and providing mapping data if the subsequent image is not too bright. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein a new illumination intensity is set if the subsequent image is determined to be too bright at step e, and wherein a second sequent image is acquired using the new illumination intensity. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the second subsequent image is used to provide mapping data. 