An adapter for picking up and placing a fixture element on a fixture body using a controlled tool handling device having a tool translating and rotating spindle. The spindle has a tool receiving end and an axis of rotation. The adapter receives a cylindrical post member of a fixture element on a fixture body. The adapter has a first end having a receptacle for receiving the end of the spindle. The second end of the adapter is displaced from the first end and includes a cylindrical socket formed on the end. The socket is co-axial with the spindle and receives the cylindrical post member of the fixture element. A fluid passage is formed in the adapter from the receptacle to the cylindrical socket. The cylindrical socket has an upstream end and a down stream end. A piston is disposed in the upstream end of the socket. The piston is moveable longitudinally within the socket in response to fluid pressure delivered from the spindle through the fluid passage. The downstream end of the socket has a circumference with radially inwardly protruding bayonet pins for engaging a circumferential groove of the cylindrical post member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A double-ended adapter tool for use with a numerically controlled machine tool having a rotatable and translatable spindle to locate a fixture element on a fixture body said spindle having a tool receiving end and an axis of rotation, and said fixture element having a cylindrical post member, said cylindrical post member having a circumferential groove, said adapter tool comprising: a first end having a receptacle member with a receptacle for fixedly receiving said tool receiving end of said spindle, said receptacle member having a longitudinal axis coincident with said axis of rotation of an inserted spindle; a second end, displaced from said first end, said second end comprising a cylindrical socket, centered on said axis of rotation of said receptacle, for receiving and holding said cylindrical post member of said fixture element; a fluid passage from said receptacle to said cylindrical socket; said cylindrical socket having an upstream end and a down stream end, said socket having a piston disposed in the upstream end of said socket, the piston being moveable longitudinally within the socket in response to fluid pressure delivered from said spindle through said fluid passage, and the downstream end of said socket having an internal circumference with radially inwardly protruding bayonet pins for engaging said circumferential groove; whereby in the operation of said adapter tool, said cylindrical post is received into said downstream end of said socket into engagement with said bayonet pins and fluid pressure applied to said piston moves it into contact with said cylindrical post member to secure said fixture element. 2. The adapter tool of claim 1 comprising a screw for retaining said piston against movement beyond a boundary of said socket. 3. The adapter tool of claim 1 wherein the bayonet pins are disposed equidistant around a circumference of said socket. 4. The adapter tool of claim 1 wherein the cylindrical post member further includes slots formed around the circumference corresponding to positions of the bayonet pins of the adapter tool. 5. The adapter tool of claim 4 wherein the slots intersect the groove and allow the bayonet pins to enter the groove, wherein spindle rotation of the adapter tool moves the bayonet pins until juxtaposed with detents formed in the groove. 6. The adapter tool of claim 5 wherein the locking piston actuates in response to the delivered fluid pressure moving the piston into contact with said cylindrical post member whereby the bayonet pins move into the detents for securely retaining the fixture element. 7. A double-ended adapter tool for use with a numerically controlled machine tool having a rotatable and translatable spindle to locate a fixture element on a fixture body, said spindle having a tool receiving end and an axis of rotation, and said fixture element having a cylindrical post member, said cylindrical post member having a circumferential groove, said adapter tool comprising: a first end having a receptacle member with a receptacle for fixedly receiving said tool receiving end of said spindle, said receptacle member having a longitudinal axis coincident with said axis of rotation of an inserted spindle; a second end, displaced from said first end, said second end comprising a cylindrical socket, centered on said axis of rotation of said receptacle, for receiving and holding said cylindrical post member of said fixture element; a fluid passage from said receptacle to said cylindrical socket; said cylindrical socket having an upstream end and a down stream end, said socket having a piston disposed in the upstream end of said socket, the piston being moveable longitudinally within the socket in response to fluid pressure delivered from said spindle through said fluid passage, and the downstream end of said socket having an internal circumference with radially inwardly protruding bayonet pins for engaging said circumferential groove; whereby in the operation of said adapter tool, said cylindrical post is received into said downstream end of said socket into engagement with said bayonet pins and fluid pressure applied to said piston moves it into contact with said cylindrical post member to secure said fixture element; said receptacle member further comprising a chamber opening axially opposite said receptacle, said chamber having a hollow cylindrical member opening terminating in a shaft for sliding telescopic engagement with said socket member, said shaft having a terminal flange, said socket member comprising a cylindrical element adapted for telescopic engagement with said shaft. 8. The adapter tool of claim 7 comprising a retaining collar, which is attached in a removable manner to said socket member and engaging said terminal flange. 9. The adapter tool of claim 7 comprising a screw for retaining said piston against movement beyond a boundary of said socket. 10. The adapter tool of claim 7 wherein the bayonet pins are disposed equidistant around a circumference of said socket. 11. The adapter tool of claim 7 wherein the cylindrical post member further includes slots formed around the circumference corresponding to positions of the bayonet pins of the adapter tool. 12. The adapter tool of claim 11 wherein the slots intersect the groove and allow the bayonet pins to enter the groove, wherein spindle rotation of the adapter tool moves the bayonet pins until juxtaposed with detents formed in the groove. 13. The adapter tool of claim 12 wherein the locking piston actuates in response to the delivered fluid pressure moving the piston into contact with said cylindrical post member whereby the bayonet pins move into the detents for securely retaining the fixture element. 14. The adapter tool of claim 7 further including an anti-rotation pin disposed between said socket member and said terminal flange. 15. The adapter tool of claim 7 wherein said chamber includes a compliant member disposed therein. 16. The adapter tool of claim 15 wherein the compliant member is compressed within the chamber for preventing damage to the adapter tool in response to a crash condition wherein said socket member is driven into said hollow cylindrical member. 17. The adapter tool of claim 15 wherein the retaining collar has a variable length to adjustably preload a force and displacement of the compliant member. 