A microvolume liquid handling system includes a microdispenser employing a piezoelectric transducer attached to a glass capillary, a positive displacement pump for priming and aspirating transfer liquid into the microdispenser, controlling the pressure of the liquid system, and washing the microdispenser between liquid transfers, and a pressure sensor to measure the liquid system pressure and produce a corresponding electrical signal. Dispensing of a single sub-nanoliter drop can be detected in real time. As the result of dispensing the liquid in sub-nanoliter droplets, the dispensed volume can be precisely controlled. The dispenser automatically detects the liquid surface of the transfer liquid, automatically aspirate, analyze desired volume of the transfer liquid, dispense the transfer liquid without contacting the destination vessel or its contents, and automatically wash off the transfer liquid from dispensing system after each transfer. This system is capable of automatically sensing liquid surfaces, aspirating liquid to be transferred, and then dispensing small quantities of liquid with high accuracy, speed and precision. The system is pulsated at high frequency to prevent or eliminate clogging. Immiscible liquid between the transfer liquid and the system liquid reduces the required amount of transfer liquid needed for dispensing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microvolume liquid handling system for dispensing small quantities of liquids, comprising: pumping means for controlling the pressure and flow of a first liquid; microdispenser means for dispensing microvolumes of a second liquid, said first liquid and said second liquid separated by a compressible fluid; a sensor for converting pressure changes in at least one of said first liquid and said second liquid into a signal; tubing means for connecting said pumping means to said sensor and said sensor to said microdispenser means; and means for converting the signal into an indication of fluid volume dispensed; vibrating means for vibrating said microdispenser means at a frequency sufficiently high to dislodge foreign material adhering to said microdispenser. 2. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said vibrating means further comprises a piezoelectric transducer. 3. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said frequency is a high frequency. 4. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 3 wherein said frequency is approximately a resonant ultrasonic frequency of said microdispenser means. 5. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 4 wherein said resonant frequency is approximately 12 kHz. 6. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said pressure sensor contains a piezoresistive element capable of converting pressure into an electrical signal. 7. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said tubing means further comprises teflon. 8. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said means for dispensing further comprise a capillary and a piezoelectric transducer in substantially radial contact with a portion of said capillary. 9. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said microdispenser is mounted on a robotic system capable of moving said microdispenser. 10. The microvolume liquid handling system of claim 1 wherein said robotic system is a three-axis system. 