Methods for reducing contamination of semiconductor substrates after processing are provided. The methods include heating the processed substrate to remove absorbed chemical species from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. Thermal desorption can be performed either in-situ or ex-situ. The substrate can be heated by convection, conduction, and/or radiant heating. The substrate can also be heated by treating the surface of the processed substrate with an inert plasma during which treatment ions in the plasma bombard the substrate surface raising the temperature thereof. Thermal desorption can also be performed ex-situ by applying thermal energy to the substrate during transport of the substrate from the processing chamber and/or by transporting the substrate to a transport module (e.g., a load lock) or to a second processing chamber for heating. Thermal desorption during transport can be enhanced by purging an inert gas over the substrate surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor substrate transport mechanism comprising: an arm; a substrate support member located at one end of the arm, the substrate support member having a support surface adapted to support the semiconductor substrate; one or more heaters adapted to apply thermal energy to the semiconductor substrate supported on the support surface; and a gas supply adapted to purge an inert gas over the surface of the semiconductor substrate supported on the support surface. 2. The substrate transport mechanism of claim 1, wherein the one or more heaters are resistance heaters mounted in the substrate transport mechanism. 3. The substrate transport mechanism of claim 1, wherein the inert gas supply is adapted to purge a heater inert gas over the surface of a substrate supported on the support surface. 4. The substrate transport mechanism of claim 1, wherein the one or more heaters are radiant heaters mounted on the substrate transport mechanism. 5. The semiconductor substrate support mechanism of claim 1, wherein the gas supply comprises a conduit external to the arm through which the inert gas is supplied to the surface of the semiconductor substrate supported on the support surface. 6. The semiconductor substrate support mechanism of claim 1, wherein the arm is retractable away from the semiconductor substrate. 7. An apparatus comprising: the semiconductor substrate support mechanism according to claim 1; and a plurality of lift pins adapted to support the semiconductor substrate, wherein the arm of the semiconductor substrate support mechanism is slidable under the semiconductor substrate supported on the lift pins. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the arm of the semiconductor substrate support mechanism includes a plurality of openings configured to allow the arm to slide under the semiconductor substrate supported on the lift pins. 9. A semiconductor processing apparatus, comprising: a processing chamber; a first semiconductor substrate transport mechanism according to claim 1 operable to transport the semiconductor substrate into the processing chamber; and a second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism according to claim 1 operable to transport the semiconductor substrate from the processing chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: an entrance load lock; and an exit load lock; wherein: the first semiconductor substrate transport mechanism is operable to transport the semiconductor substrate from the entrance load lock to the processing chamber; and the second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism is operable to transport the semiconductor substrate from the processing chamber to the exit load lock. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism is adapted to apply thermal energy to the semiconductor substrate during transfer of the semiconductor substrate from the processing chamber and/or when the semiconductor substrate is inside the exit load lock. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the gas supply of the second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism is adapted to purge a heated inert gas over the surface of the semiconductor substrate to thereby apply thermal energy to the semiconductor substrate. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism is adapted to apply thermal energy to the semiconductor substrate by conduction. 14. A method of processing a semiconductor substrate in a semiconductor processing apparatus, comprising: transporting a semiconductor substrate into a first processing chamber of a semiconductor processing apparatus using a first semiconductor substrate transport mechanism according to claim 1; processing the semiconductor substrate in the first processing chamber; and transporting the processed semiconductor substrate from the first processing chamber using a second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism according to claim 1. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: transporting the semiconductor substrate from an entrance load lock into the first processing chamber using the first semiconductor substrate transport-mechanism; and transporting the semiconductor substrate from the first processing chamber into an exit load lock using the second semiconductor substrate transport mechanism. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein, as a result of the processing, chemical species present in the first processing chamber are adsorbed onto the surface of the semiconductor substrate, and the method further comprises heating the semiconductor substrate to remove adsorbed chemical species from the surface of the semiconductor substrate by thermal desorption. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the semiconductor substrate is heated with an inert plasma and RF biased during the heating in a second processing chamber of the semiconductor processing apparatus. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising applying thermal energy to the semiconductor substrate and purging heated inert gas over the surface of the semiconductor substrate during transporting of the semiconductor substrate from the first processing chamber. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the thermal energy is applied to the semiconductor substrate by conduction from the second substrate transport during transporting. 