An arithmetic processing device, an object-to-object communication method and a robot, such as an entertainment robot, in which software suited to a current robot configuration is set. The software is changed corresponding to the configuration based on a comparison result of information corresponding to a component detection result stored for each configuration and a component detection result associated with the current configuration. Objects are connected so that data can be exchanged based on the connection data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot having a configuration that is changeable by exchanging components thereof, said robot comprising: component detection means for detecting the components attached and for outputting the component detection result; information storing means for storing information corresponding to said component detection result in each configuration obtained by exchanging said components; software changing means for changing software corresponding to the configuration based on the comparison result between said component detection result and the information stored in said information storing means; and control means for controlling the overall operations according to the software set by said software changing means. 2. A robot as defined in claim 1, wherein said software changing means changes software corresponding to said configuration by changing objects forming said software based on said comparison result. 3. A robot as defined in claim 1, wherein said software comprises: configuration dependent software that is dependent on the change of said configuration; and configuration independent software that is not dependent on the change of said configuration; and said software changing means changes software corresponding to said configuration by changing said configuration-dependent software. 4. A robot as defined in claim 1, characterized by: information corresponding to said component detection result is described by text data. 5. An arithmetic processing device for communicating data between objects, comprising: an object manager for connecting said objects so that data can be exchanged; and connection data providing means for providing the connection data required for connecting said objects to said object manager. 6. An arithmetic processing device as defined in claim 5, wherein said connection data is information to specify objects to be connected and the format of data to be communicated. 7. An arithmetic processing device as defined in claim 5, wherein said connection data providing means provides the connection data after selecting the connection data from a file in which multiple connection data are recorded to said object manager. 8. An arithmetic processing device as defined in claim 5, wherein said object manager, after separating the connection between corresponding objects according to said connection data, changes software comprised of said objects by connecting said objects. 9. An arithmetic processing device as defined in claim 8, characterized by: the change of said software is the shifting of electric power consumption mode. 10. An arithmetic processing device as defined in claim 5, characterized by: said connection data is described by text data. 11. An object-to-object communication method for communicating data between objects, comprising: connecting said objects so that data is exchanged based on connection data to be provided from a predetermined data providing means. 12. An object-to-object communication method as defined in claim 11, wherein said connection data is information to specify objects to be connected and the format of data to be communicated. 13. An object-to-object communication method as defined in claim 11, wherein said connection data is selected from a file in which multiple connection data are recorded and to be provided. 14. An object-to-object communication method as defined in claim 11, characterized by: said software formed by said objects is changed by connecting said objects after separating the connection between the corresponding objects according to said connection data. 15. An object-to-object communication method as defined in claim 14, characterized by: the change of said software is the shifting of electric power consumption mode. 16. An object-to-object communication method as defined in claim 1, characterized by: said connection data is the description by text data. 17. A robot, comprising: a robot configuration that is changeable by exchanging components thereof; and overall operations are controlled by the software comprised of objects by communicating data between objects; and comprising: an object manager to connect said objects so that data can be exchanged; and connection data providing means for providing the connection data required for connecting said objects to said object manager. 18. A robot as defined in claim 17, wherein said connection data defines objects to be connected and the format of data to be communicated. 19. A robot as defined in claim 17, characterized by: said connection data is selected from the file in which multiple connection data are recorded and to be provided. 20. A robot as defined in claim 17, characterized by: said software is changed after separating the connection between the corresponding objects and by connecting said objects according to said connection data. 21. A robot as defined in claim 20, characterized by: the change of said software is the shifting of electric power consumption mode. 22. A robot as defined in claim 20, comprising: detection means for detecting said components; and characterized by: said software is changed corresponding to said configuration since said connection data is provided according to the detection result of said detection means by said connection data providing means. 23. A robot as defined in claim 17, characterized by: said connection data is the description by text data. 