A method and system for the manufacture of an assembly, such as an automobile body-in-white or sub-assembly, that comprises a plurality of components is disclosed. Selected from the plurality of components are components which can form an initial rigid structure. These selected components are then positioned relative to each other with reference to at least one reference point on at least one of the selected components. These selected components are then affixed to one another, by, for example, spot welds to form the initial structure. The non-selected components are then positioned relative to the same reference point and attached to either the initial structure or a component that was affixed in an earlier process. An assembly, such as an automobile body-in-white, will have reduced manufacturing tolerances when compared to the body-in-white manufactured in a conventional manner.
Claims We claim: 1. An assembly line, comprising: an initial station for forming a substantially rigid initial structure from a plurality of components, one of said plurality of components having a defined reference point, the remainder of said plurality of components being positioned with respect to said reference point; and at least one additional station downstream of said initial station, each of said at least one additional station comprising: a component positioner for locating said reference point of said initial structure and for positioning additional components based on a located position of said reference point of said initial structure; and an affixer for affixing said additional components to said initial structure at a position determined by said component positioner. 2. The assembly line of claim 1, wherein said affixer affixes said additional components in abutting relation to said initial structure. 3. The assembly line of claim 2, wherein said at least one additional station comprises a plurality of additional stations which are serially arranged. 4. The assembly line of claim 2, wherein said assembly line comprises a plurality of sub-assembly lines for the assembly of a plurality of sub-assemblies, and further comprising: assembly means for referencing and affixing said manufactured sub-assemblies to an initial structure manufactured on one of said plurality of sub-assembly lines. 5. The assembly line of claim 2 wherein said assembly line is for manufacturing vehicle sub-assemblies. 6. The assembly line of claim 2 wherein said component positioner is one or more of: a vision system and a handling robot. 7. The assembly line of claim 2 wherein said affixer for affixing said additional components affixes using one or more of: welding, adhesives, bolts, rivets, joints and fasteners. 8. The assembly line of claim 2 wherein said component positioner is a jig. 9. The assembly line of claim 1 wherein said plurality of components comprise a plurality of sub-assemblies. 10. The assembly line of claim 1 wherein said assembly line is for manufacturing vehicle assemblies. 11. The assembly line of claim 1 wherein said affixer is also for affixing said additional components to one another. 