A method for coating vehicular radiators with an ozone depleting manganese oxide catalyst in slurry form utilizes a robotic arm with multiple spray heads for spraying the face of the radiator. Each head is in fluid communication with its own dedicated peristaltic pump. The pumps are independently valved into and out of fluid communication with select heads as a function of the spray pattern effected by robotic arm movement.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, it is claimed: 1. A method for applying a catalyst coating to a vehicular radiator having a frame forming a window, a plurality of tubular conduits within the window for carrying a coolant and fins between the conduits having louvers formed therein, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing an agitated vat containing a slurry of said catalyst; b) providing a plurality of spray heads mounted in spaced relationship to a robotic arm movable relative to said radiator; c) providing for each spray head a source of pressurized air regulated by flow and/or pressure when valved into fluid communication with a spray head; d) providing for each spray head a separate pump for pumping said slurry from said vat to an associated spray head; e) controlling each pump to operate at a generally constant set speed; f) valving said pressurized air and the slurry from said pumps into fluid communication with said spray heads to produce an atomized fan shaped slurry spray from each spray head; g) maintaining said valved communication of air and slurry to said spray heads for a set time sufficient to allow said arm to complete a set movement pattern for spraying one face side of said radiator window with said slurry penetrating to at least the center depth of the fins; and, h) repeating steps (f) and (g) to spray the opposite face side of said radiator window. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said catalyst is manganese oxide and each pump is a peristaltic pump. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said spray pattern includes, without masking the window of said radiator, indexing said spray heads vertically up or down at the completion of a horizontal sweep of said arm, said horizontal sweep extending from a position adjacent one side edge of said window to a position adjacent the opposite side edge of said window, said spray pattern generally conical; said index step less than the diameter of said spray pattern at the face surface of said radiator, said plurality of spray heads including a first and second spray head with said second spray head positioned a set distance below said first spray head and said indexing step continuing until one of said spray heads is vertically indexed to the vertical position occupied by the other spray head at the start of the spray cycle. 4. The method of claim 3 further including the step of forming an elliptical spray pattern for one of said spray heads, directing said arm to move said one spray head to spray at each radiator face side a border pattern at the peripheral edge of said window by horizontal and vertical passes of said spray head forming said elliptical pattern while fluid communication of said slurry to the other spray heads is stopped. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein select spray heads are valved only into and out of fluid communication with said peristaltic pump at set times during said arm movement pattern, each pump pumping its entire output either to its associated spray head or to said slurry vat. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said slurry is recirculated back to said vat for any given peristaltic pump not in fluid communication with its corresponding spray head. 7. The method of claim 5 further including the step of directing a knife edge of air against the radiator face immediately following spraying said slurry onto said radiator face to assure penetration of said slurry into channels formed between said conduits and fins. 8. The method of claim 5 further including the step of providing a mass flow controller at the outlet of each pump to measure and control the flow rate of each pump. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said catalyst in slurry form is selected from the group consisting of i) manganese dioxide, ii) non stoichiometric manganese dioxide, and iii) Mn.sub.2 O.sub.3. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said manganese dioxide comprises the cryptomelane form of alpha manganese oxide with a surface area between 150 m.sup.2 /g to 350 m.sup.2 /g. 11. The method of claim 10 further including the steps of providing a protective coating slurry in said vat and repeating steps (a) to (h) to produce a protective overcoat over said catalyst coating. 12. The method of claim 14 wherein said protective coating is alumina oxide. 13. The method of claim 5 wherein said catalyst comprises metal oxides in said slurry. 14. The method of claim 5 further including the steps of washing and drying each radiator prior to spraying and drying each radiator after spraying, said drying step occurring at an elevated temperature and in the absence of burner products of combustion. 15. The method of claim 14 further including the steps of weighing said radiator before and after spraying said radiator to determine the quantity of catalyst deposited onto said radiator. 16. A method for applying a catalyst coating to a vehicular radiator having a frame defining a window formed thereby, a plurality of tubular conduits within the window for carrying a coolant and fins between the conduits having louvers formed therein, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a slurry of said catalyst in an agitating vat; b) providing at least two spray heads mounted for common movement to a robotic arm, each spray head receiving a source of pressurized air; c) providing a separate pump for each spray head for pumping said slurry from said vat to said spray head; d) controlling each pump to operate at a generally constant speed; e) independently valving said pumped slurry into fluid communication with said spray heads for a discreet time sufficient to allow said arm to move said spray head through a set spray movement for spraying said slurry onto one face side of said radiator window with said slurry penetrating at least to the middle of said fins; and, f) repeating step (e) for the opposite window face side of said radiator. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said catalyst is manganese oxide and each pump is a peristaltic pump. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said slurry is recirculated back to said agitating vat when said peristaltic pump is not in fluid communication with said spray head. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said spray pattern includes, without masking the window of said radiator, indexing said spray heads vertically up or down at the completion of a horizontal sweep of said arm, said horizontal sweep extending from a position adjacent one side edge of said window to a position adjacent the opposite side edge of said window, said spray pattern generally conical; said index step less than the diameter of said spray pattern at the face surface of said radiator, said plurality of spray heads including a first and second spray head with said second spray head positioned a set distance below said first spray head and said indexing step continuing until one of said spray heads is vertically indexed to the vertical position occupied by the other spray head at the start of the spray cycle. 20. The method of claim 19 further including the step of forming an elliptical spray pattern for one of said spray heads, directing said arm to move said one spray head to spray at each radiator face side a border pattern at the peripheral edge of said window by horizontal and vertical passes of said spray head forming said elliptical pattern while fluid communication of said slurry to the other spray heads is stopped. 21. A method for coating the window opening formed within the frame of a vehicular radiator having tubular conduits and louver fins therein with an ozone depleting catalyst comprising the steps of: a) providing at least two spray heads mounted for common movement on a robotic arm; b) providing pressurized valved communication of said ozone depleting catalyst in slurry form and air to each spray head; c) causing only one of said spray heads to form an elliptical spray pattern of said slurry while preventing the other spray heads from operating; d) directing at each side of said radiator an elliptical catalyst spray plume from said one spray head by moving said one spray head in horizontal and vertical directions about the periphery of said window to form a border about said window of sprayed catalyst; and, e) coating the remainder of said window by spraying said slurry onto the window of said radiator between the border coated in step (e). 22. The method of claim 21 wherein each spray head has a separate peristaltic pump with one deformable flexible tubing biased by rollers and a diverter valve for recirculating catalyst slurry when pump output of any given pump is not directed to an associated spray head and independently controlling each diverter valve when spraying said radiator window. 23. The method of claim 22 further including the step of directing a knife stream of air against the window opening following spraying of said catalyst slurry onto the face surface of said window. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said catalyst in slurry form is selected from the group consisting of i) manganese dioxide, ii) non stoichiometric manganese dioxide, and iii) Mn.sub.2 O.sub.3. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said manganese dioxide comprises the cryptomelane form of alpha manganese oxide with a surface area between 150 m.sup.2 /g to 350 m.sup.2 /g. 