An integrally formed single piece light strip and light strip manufacturing system. The light strip also includes a substrate populated with a plurality of LED light circuits. A plurality of bus elements are spaced apart from one another at a predetermined distance and are in electrical communication with the plurality of light circuits. A plastic material is extruded around the plurality of light circuits and the substrate to completely encapsulates the bus elements and the plurality of light circuits to provide a protective housing. In one embodiment, an electrical connector is also integrally formed as part of the light strip to eliminate the need for separate connectors. The light strip is o manufactured in a cost efficient manner, and is impervious to moisture penetration, thereby allowing the strip to be used in a variety of applications and environments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming an integral LED light strip, comprising: supplying to an extruder a continuous length of assembled LED light circuits affixed to a substrate; and continuously extruding a thermoplastic material around the continuous length of assembled LED light circuits and the substrate to form a continuous voidless protective light circuit housing that shields the LED light circuits from moisture. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of cutting the continuous protective light circuit housing between adjacent LED light circuits to form a plurality of discrete LED light strip segments. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of continuously extruding comprises continuously extruding a thermoplastic material that is identical to the substrate so that the substrate becomes integrated with the extruded thermoplastic material. 4. A method of forming an integral light strip, comprising: supplying to an extruder a continuous length of assembled light circuits affixed to a thermoplastic substrate; and continuously extruding a material that includes the same thermoplastic as the substrate around the continuous length of assembled light circuits and the substrate to form a continuous voidless protective light circuit housing that shields the light circuits from moisture. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of cutting the continuous protective light circuit housing between adjacent light circuits to form a plurality of discrete light strip segments. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the supplying step includes supplying assembled LED light circuits. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the supplying step includes selecting the thermoplastic material from the group consisting essentially of Surlyn.RTM., an ionomer resin, a high density polyethylene, polychlorotrifluoroethylene, polyester, and polyvinylchloride. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the supplying step includes the step of providing a light circuit having first and second bus elements spaced apart from one another at a predetermined distance and adhered to the substrate. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the providing step further includes the step of locating third and fourth bus elements between the first and second bus elements and adhered to the substrate. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the supplying step includes the step of electrically connecting between corresponding segments of the second and third bus elements. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the supplying step includes the step of completing an electrical current flowpath between the first, second, third and fourth bus elements and the light circuits. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein the supplying step includes the step of repeating the light circuits and electrically connecting same to one another to form a light strip system. 13. The method of claim 4, wherein the supplying step includes the step of integrally forming an electrical connector in each of the light circuits and interconnecting the light circuits together. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the integrally forming step includes the step of providing a plurality of connector plugs each corresponding to one of the electrical connectors. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of cutting the continuous protective light circuit housing between adjacent light circuits to form a plurality of discrete light strip segments, and removing the plurality of connector plugs subsequent to the cutting step to define a plurality of electrical sockets within the strip segments. 