A self-propelled cleaning apparatus for cleaning a submerged surface of a pool or tank includes a housing having a front portion as defined by the direction of movement of the apparatus when propelled by a water jet, an opposing rear portion and adjoining side portions defining the periphery of the apparatus, and a baseplate with at least one water inlet. Rotationally-mounted supports are coupled proximate the front and rear portions of the housing to enable movement of the apparatus over the submerged surface. A water pump is configured to draw water and debris from the pool through the inlet for filtering. A stationary directional discharge conduit is in fluid communication with the pump and has at least one discharge opening through which a pressurized stream of water forming the water jet is directionally discharged at an acute angle with respect to the surface over which the apparatus is moving.
Claims We claim: 1. A self-propelled cleaning apparatus for cleaning a submerged surface of a pool or tank, comprising: a housing having a front portion as defined by the direction of movement of the apparatus when propelled by a water jet, an opposing rear portion and adjoining side portions defining the periphery of the apparatus, and a baseplate with at least one water inlet; rotationally-mounted supports coupled proximate the front and rear portions of the housing to enable movement of said apparatus over the submerged surface; a water pump mounted in the interior of said housing, said water pump being configured to draw water and debris from the pool or tank through the at least one water inlet for filtering; and a stationary directional discharge conduit in fluid communication with the water pump and having at least one discharge opening through which a pressurized stream of water forming the water jet is directionally discharged at a predetermined angle that is acute with respect the surface over which the apparatus is moving. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the discharge conduit is linear in shape. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a portion of the discharge conduit terminating in the at least one discharge opening is fixed at a predetermined upward angle with respect to the surface over which the apparatus is moving, wherein the water jet discharged produces a resultant force vector that crosses a plane passing through between the axes of rotation of the front and rear rotationally-mounted supports. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 in which the resultant force vector crosses the plane proximate the axis of rotation of the supports mounted proximately the front of the apparatus. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the resultant force vector discharged from said discharge opening includes a longitudinal force vector component and a vertical force vector component, said longitudinal force vector component being aligned with the longitudinal axis of the apparatus and being greater than the vertical force vector component. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the discharge conduit has at least two discharge openings, each of which discharge openings is located at opposite ends of the discharge conduit and each of which discharge openings is configured to produce a downwardly directed resultant force vector in the respective discharged water jet, the resultant vector having a longitudinal force vector component that is larger than the vertical force vector component. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotationally-mounted supports comprise first and second pairs of axially mounted wheels respectively positioned proximate the front and rear portions of the housing. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein a portion of the discharge conduit terminating in the at least one discharge opening is angled upward with respect to an adjacent portion of the discharge conduit to produce a resultant force vector in the water jet discharged from said at least one discharge opening that is directed to pass through the plane of the axis of rotation of the pair of wheels at the front portion of the apparatus. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the resultant force vector discharged from said at least one discharge opening includes a longitudinal force vector component and a vertical force vector component, said longitudinal force vector component being aligned with the longitudinal axis of the apparatus and being greater than the vertical force vector component. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein each pair of wheels is mounted on an axle extending transversely across the housing of the apparatus. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein a portion of discharge conduit adjacent the at least one discharge opening is angled upwardly with respect to the discharge conduit to produce a resultant force vector in the water jet discharged from said at least one discharge opening that is directed to a position that is proximate to, and rearwardly displaced from the axle of the front pair of wheels. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein a portion of the discharge conduit terminating adjacent the at least one discharge opening is angled upwardly with respect to the discharge conduit to produce a resultant force vector in the water jet discharged that is directed to intersect the axle of the front pair of wheels. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one filter assembly positioned to filter water from the at least one water inlet prior to its passage through the directional discharge conduit. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one filter assembly is mounted within the housing of the cleaning apparatus. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one filter assembly is mounted externally from the housing of the cleaning apparatus. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein water drawn into the at least one water inlet flows through a filter prior to its discharge as the water jet to propel the pool cleaner in a forward direction of movement. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a water jet valve located between the pump discharge outlet and the at least one discharge opening in the discharge conduit, the water jet valve being operable between first and second discharge positions to direct the water jet in generally opposite directions. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the pressurized water stream discharged from the pump discharge outlet undergoes only one right-angle change of direction before being discharged from the apparatus to move over the submerged surface of the pool in a direction that is determined by the position of the water jet valve. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a portion of the discharge conduit terminating in the at least one discharge opening is fixed at a predetermined upward angle with respect to the surface over which the apparatus is moving, wherein the water jet discharged produces a resultant force vector that crosses a plane passing through the axes of rotation of the front rotationally-mounted supports. 20. A self-propelled cleaning apparatus for cleaning a submerged surface of a pool or tank, said apparatus being propelled by the discharge of a water jet, the apparatus comprising: a housing including a baseplate with at least one water inlet, a front portion, a rear portion and opposing side portions defining the periphery of the apparatus, said front portion being defined with respect to the forward directional movement of the apparatus when propelled by the water jet; rotationally-mounted supports coupled to the housing to enable movement of said apparatus over the submerged surface; a water pump mounted in the interior of said housing, said water pump configured to draw water and debris from the pool or tank through the at least one water inlet for filtering, and a pump discharge outlet for emitting a pressurized stream of filtered water; a directional discharge conduit in fluid communication with the pump discharge outlet, the discharge conduit having at least one discharge opening through which the water jet is directionally discharged from the apparatus at a predetermined angle that is less than normal with respect to the surface beneath the apparatus. 21. A method for cleaning a submerged surface of a pool or tank, comprising the steps of: providing a self-propelled cleaning apparatus, said cleaning apparatus including a housing having a baseplate with at least one water inlet, and further including a front portion as defined by the direction of movement of the cleaning apparatus when propelled by a water jet, an opposing rear portion and adjoining side portions defining the periphery of the apparatus, rotationally-mounted supports coupled to the housing to enable movement of said apparatus over the submerged surface, a water pump mounted in the interior of said housing, and a directional discharge conduit in fluid communication with the water pump and having at least one discharge opening; activating the water pump to draw water and debris from the pool or tank through the at least one water inlet; filtering the water drawn into the housing; discharging the filtered water through the directional discharge conduit at an acute angle with respect to the surface over which the apparatus is moving, said discharged filtered water forming a water jet having a resultant force vector acutely angled towards the surface beneath the apparatus; and propelling the apparatus in a forward direction of movement. 