A technique for estimating the best children (i.e. the next generation of individual chromosomes) for use by an online genetic analyzer (GA) is described. One embodiment provides a method for evaluation of a GA in a control system for controlling a plant. Individuals are evaluated using data for evaluation. The data for evaluation is categorized into subdomains of a larger evaluating domain. Data for evaluation is sorted into an evaluation domain wherein an evaluation value of each individual is replaced by a model of coefficients relative to a standard model. The standard model is used to calculate an evaluation value. The evaluation value can include a mean value and/or a distribution. Moreover, the mean value and distribution can be valid for an area including a periphery of the subdomain. The evaluation value can be calculated as a model obtained by using a least-squares method to find coefficients relative to coefficients of the standard model.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluation of a genetic algorithm, said genetic algorithm used in a control system for controlling a plant, said method comprising the acts of: selecting a group of individuals; and evaluating said individuals using data for evaluation, said data for evaluation categorized into subdomains of an evaluating domain, wherein said data for evaluation is sorted into an evaluation area, and wherein an evaluation value of each individual is replaced by a model of coefficients relative to a standard model. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said standard model is used to calculate an evaluation value, wherein said evaluation value includes a distribution value of said data for evaluation in an area including a periphery of a domain containing said data for evaluation. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said standard model is used to calculate an evaluation value, wherein said evaluation value includes a mean value of said data for evaluation in an area including a periphery of a domain containing said data for evaluation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said standard model is used to calculate an evaluation value, wherein said evaluation value includes a mean value and a distribution value of said data for evaluation in an area including a periphery of a domain containing said data for evaluation. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said evaluation value is calculated as a model obtained by using a least-squares method to find coefficients relative to said coefficients of said standard model. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a change to said data for evaluation is made in order to make a contribution degree equal to an evaluation value of an evaluation subdomain relative to evaluation data sorted to said evaluation subdomain. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said evaluation value corresponds to an evaluation subdomain having a mean value and a distribution value. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said controlled plant is one of an engine, an electric motor, an air-conditioner, a refrigerator, and a robot. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein a parameter for subdividing said evaluation domain is at least one of a user preference, a user skill, an operating condition, an environmental state, or an operating state. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein an evaluation model is a function of whether said plant is operating in a steady state or a transient state, a static model being used when said plant is operating in a relatively steady state and a dynamic model being used when said plant is operating in a relatively transient state. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said transient state is evaluated according to a response performance of said plant. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said controlled plant is an engine, and wherein said evaluation of individuals is made concerning response performance, and wherein said evaluation domain is subdivided according to a throttle state, said throttle state being a relatively steady state or a relatively transient state. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein a local evaluation value regarding a response performance is calculated by dividing a change rate of engine speed by a change rate of mean throttle opening. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein said controlled plant is an engine, and wherein a static characteristic is evaluated by at least one of a fuel efficiency and an output power. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein a local evaluation value regarding fuel efficiency performance is a fuel injection amount in an evaluation subdomain. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein a local evaluation value regarding output power is a throttle opening an evaluation subdomain. 17. A control system for controlling a plant, said control system comprising a genetic algorithm configured to evaluate individuals using data for evaluation, said data for evaluation categorized into subdomains of an evaluating domain, wherein an evaluation value of each individual is replaced by a model of coefficients relative to a standard model. 18. The control system of claim 17, wherein said evaluation value includes a distribution value. 19. The control system of claim 17, wherein said standard model is used to calculate an evaluation value, wherein said evaluation value includes a mean value of said data for evaluation in an area including a periphery of a domain containing said data for evaluation. 20. The control system of claim 17, wherein said standard model is used to calculate an evaluation value, wherein said evaluation value includes a mean value and a distribution value of said data for evaluation in an area including a periphery of a domain containing said data for evaluation. 21. The control system of claim 17, wherein said evaluation value is calculated as a model obtained by using a least-squares method to find coefficients relative to said coefficients of said standard model. 22. The control system of claim 17, wherein a change to said data for evaluation is made in order to make a contribution degree equal to an evaluation value of an evaluation subdomain relative to evaluation data for said evaluation subdomain. 23. The control system of claim 22, wherein said evaluation value corresponds to an evaluation subdomain having a mean value and a distribution value. 24. The control system of claim 17, wherein said controlled plant comprises an engine. 25. The control system of claim 24, wherein a control system is configured to provide relatively optimized performance based on at least one of a user preference, a user skill, an operating condition, an environmental state, or an operating state. 26. The control system of claim 24, further configured to provide a first evaluation model when said plant is operating in a steady state and a second evaluation model when said plant is operating in a transient state. 