An x-ray positioner is provided having two independently articulated arms supporting an x-ray tube and x-ray detector, respectively, that are mounted offset to the patient and controlled to track a bolus travelling through a patient. A controller is provided with feedback information regarding the bolus to determine the rate of travel, and to produce motion signals to the arms to automatically track the movement of the bolus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bolus tracking x-ray positioner comprising: an x-ray source producing an x-ray beam directed along a source axis; an x-ray detector detecting x-rays received along a detector axis; a first and second articulated arm holding respectively the x-ray source and the x-ray detector in opposition about a patient volume for movement along a bolus path; an axis controller operating according to a stored program to: (i) receive image signals from the x-ray detector (ii) process the image signals to identify movement of a bolus of contrast medium within a patient; and (iii) send movement signals to the first and second articulated arms to move the x-ray source and x-ray detector to follow the bolus with movement of the bolus through the patient. 2. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the axis controller operating according to the stored program processes the image signals to: compare sequential image signals to detect regions of change; process the regions of change with morphometic filters to identify the bolus; and determine change in position of the bolus. 3. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the axis controller operating according to the stored program sends movement signals to center the bolus within a field of view defined by the x-ray source and detector. 4. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the controller further determines changes of velocity and path. 5. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 4, wherein the path is pre-programmed in the controller. 6. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 5, wherein the controller sends movement signals to the articulated arms to rotate the source such that the source axis extends substantially normal to the path. 7. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 5, wherein the controller sends movement signals to the articulated arms to translate the source along the path. 8. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, further comprising a display terminal supported by the second articulated arm and disposed behind the detector with respect to the direction of x-ray beam travel, the display terminal being configured to receive electrical signals from the controller and produce an output image of the bolus. 9. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 8, wherein the movement signals ensure that the output image of the bolus is visible on the display. 10. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the axis controller operating according to the stored program sends movement signals to cause the arms to rotate. 11. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the axis controller operating according to the stored program processes the movement signals to cause the arms to translate. 12. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the axis controller operating according to the stored program processes the movement signals to cause the source and detector to angulate while following the bolus movement. 13. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the processing further comprises subtracting a current image from a previous image to produce an isolated image of at least a portion of the bolus. 14. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 1, wherein the axis controller operating according to the stored program records the movement signals in memory. 15. The bolus tracking x-ray positioner as recited in claim 14, wherein the controller further comprises a manual override to adjust one of the position and speed of the articulated arms while following the bolus. 