A method of manufacturing a container formed of five rectangular metal panels including a bottom panel, opposed side panels and opposed end panels, each panel having peripheral edges there around, including the steps of forming spaced apart notches leaving interpositioned tab portions in peripheral edges of the panels, positioning the bottom panel horizontally, positioning the two side panels and two end panels vertically around the periphery edges of the bottom panel forming four vertical and four horizontal panel intersections with tab portions aligned with mating notches at each of the panel intersections and welding the four vertical and four horizontal panel intersections to physically interconnect the five panels to provide an open top rectangular container.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of manufacturing a container comprising: (1) forming spaced apart notches leaving integral interpositioned tab portions in peripheral edges of five planar, single thickness rectangular metal panels; (2) positioning a bottom panel horizontally; (3) positioning two side panels and two end panels vertically around said periphery edges of said bottom panel forming four vertical and four horizontal panel intersections with tab portions aligned with mating notches at each of the panel intersections; (4) actuating four translatable rams each having an angular face that simultaneously engages a pair of said vertical panels at the intersection thereof to hold said end and side panels in position around said bottom panel; and (5) welding said four vertical and four horizontal panel intersections to physically interconnect said five panels to provide an open top rectangular container. 2. A method of manufacturing a container according to claim 1 wherein step (5) is carried out with at least one robotic welder. 3. A method of manufacturing a container according to claim 2 wherein said robotic welder is operated at least in part inside said vertically positioned end and side panels. 4. A method of manufacturing containers comprising: (1) forming spaced apart notches leaving interspaced integral tab portions in edges of five planar rectangular metal panels; (2) at an assembly station, positioning a bottom panel horizontally and positioning two side panels and two end panels vertically around the periphery of said bottom panel forming four vertical panel intersections and four horizontal panel intersections with tab portions aligned with mating notch portions, thereby forming a container assembly; (3) actuating four translatable rams each having an angular face that simultaneously engages a pair of said vertical panels at the intersection thereof to hold said end and side panels in position around said bottom panel; (4) moving said container assembly retained by said rams on a track from said assembly station to a weld station; and (5) at said weld station, welding said four vertical and four horizontal panel intersections to physically interconnect said five panels to provide an open top container. 5. A method of manufacturing containers according to claim 4 wherein step (5) is carried out with at least one robotic welder. 6. A method of manufacturing containers according to claim 5 wherein said robotic welder is operated at least in part inside said vertically positioned end and side panels. 