The system and method of the present invention provides a system, and in particular a robot system, and a variety of processes that may be performed by the robot system in a retail environment. The robot system, in accordance with one embodiment, includes a processor portion, a memory portion, an interaction portion and a transport portion. The processor portion of the robot system processes a wide variety of data in operation of the robot system based on a variety of inputs from the retail environment and information in the memory stores. The memory portion stores a variety of data including retail data relating to retail activity and information relating to customer interaction with the robot system. The processor portion both stores data in the memory portion and retrieves data from the memory portion in operation. The interaction portion interfaces with a customer in various ways.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot for use in a retail environment, the robot comprising: a processor portion for processing data in the robot; a memory portion, the processor portion storing data in the memory portion and retrieving data from the memory portion, the memory portion storing retail data relating to retail activity; an interaction portion for interfacing with a customer, the interaction portion receiving input from the customer and generating output to the customer, the output based on the retail data relating to retail activity, the processor portion controlling the interaction portion; and a transport portion for transporting the robot. 2. The robot according to claim 1, the processor portion controlling the transport portion to transport the robot from a first location to a second location. 3. The robot according to claim 2, wherein the input from a person is a request for a specified item, the processor portion retrieving an item location for the specified item from the memory portion. 4. The robot according to claim 3, wherein the processor portion presents the item location to the person interfacing with the interaction portion. 5. The robot according to claim 3, wherein: the first location is a location at which the customer or other person made the request for the specified item; and the second location is a location at which the specified item is physically located. 6. The robot according to claim 2, wherein: the memory portion includes a daily special memory portion, the daily special memory portion containing daily special data relating to daily specials; and the processor portion retrieving the daily special data from the daily special memory portion, the processor portion presenting daily special information based on the daily special data using the interaction portion. 7. The robot according to claim 2, further including a body portion, the body portion containing at least one of the processor portion, the memory portion, and the interaction portion. 8. The robot according to claim 7, further including; a holding container attached to the body portion; and an armature portion, wherein the processor portion controls the armature portion such that the armature portion removes items from the holding container and presents the items to the customer. 9. The robot according to claim 7, further including a sensor system including a plurality of sensors mounted on the body portion and in communication with the processor portion, the plurality of sensors inputting information relating to the retail environment, the sensor system communicating the information to the processor portion. 10. The robot according to claim 9, wherein: the sensors input obstacle information relating to obstacles in the retail environment, the sensor system communicating the obstacle information to the processor portion; and the processor portion controlling the transport portion to effect movement from the first location to the second location while avoiding the obstacles. 11. The robot according to claim 9, wherein the sensor system includes a position detecting portion, the position detecting portion detecting the position of the robot in the retail environment. 12. The robot according to claim 9, wherein the sensors include at least one of a visual sensor and audio sensor. 13. The robot according to claim 12, further including: a recording portion, the recording portion recording visual image information and audio information by the at least one of the visual sensor and the audio sensor; and a transmission portion, the transmission portion outputting the visual image information and audio information to a destination outside of the robot. 14. The robot according to claim 9, wherein the sensors include at least one gaseous sensor, the gaseous sensor detecting information relating to the content of the air in the retail environment. 15. The robot according to claim 9, wherein the sensors include at least one heat sensor. 16. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the interaction portion senses the approach of a customer in the retail environment. 17. The robot according to claim 16, wherein the interaction portion outputs a communication to the customer when the approach of the customer is sensed. 18. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the robot includes a body portion, the body portion displaying sales promotion materials directed to the retail environment, the body portion encloses at least one of the processor portion and the memory portion. 19. The robot according to claim 18, wherein the sales promotion materials include at least one of materials to attract the attention of the customer and materials to advertise goods to the customer. 20. The robot according to claim 18, wherein the body portion includes: a base portion, the base portion enclosing at least one of the processor portion and the memory portion; and an upper portion, the upper portion disposed upon the base portion, the upper portion presenting indicia indicative of a product to the customer. 21. The robot according to claim 18, wherein the body portion represents a persona, the persona selected from the group consisting of an English robot, an old west robot, and a clown robot. 22. The robot according to claim 18, further including a card reader, the card reader disposed on the body portion; and a cash dispenser portion, the cash dispenser portion in communication with the processing portion, wherein the cash dispensing portion dispenses cash responsive to data input by the card reader. 23. The robot according to claim 2, wherein the interaction portion includes: a video interface, the processor portion outputting video data to the video interface for presentation to the customer; and a voice generation portion, the processor portion outputting audio data to the voice generation portion for presentation to the customer. 24. The robot according to claim 23, wherein the video interface is selected from the group consisting of a liquid crystal display (LCD) and a video screen. 25. The robot according to claim 23, wherein the memory portion includes a product memory portion, the processing portion retrieving product related data from the product memory portion and outputting the product related data to the video interface for presentation to a customer. 26. The robot according to claim 25, wherein the product related data also includes audio data, the processor portion outputting the audio data to the voice generation portion for presentation to the customer synchronously with the output of the product related data to the video interface. 27. The robot according to claim 23, wherein the interaction portion further includes a touch screen that inputs data from a customer by a customer physically touching portions of the touch screen, the interaction portion forwarding data input into the touch screen to the processor portion for processing. 28. The robot according to claim 23, wherein the interaction portion further includes at least one of a key pad for inputting information from a customer and a printer for outputting information to a customer. 29. The robot according to claim 23, further including a bar code reader that scans merchandise labels, the processor portion outputting information to at least one of the video interface and the voice generation portion responsive to the information input by the bar code reader portion. 30. The robot according to claim 2, wherein the interaction portion includes: a card scanner portion to scan a customer card; and a printer portion, wherein the processor portion outputs information to the printer for printing responsive to the scanning of the card scanner portion. 31. The robot according to claim 2, further including a theft detection portion in communication with the processor portion, the theft detection portion monitoring operating conditions of the robot for conditions indicative of theft. 32. The robot according to claim 31, wherein the theft detection portion includes a proximity sensor, the proximity sensor monitoring the robot's position in the retail environment. 33. The robot according to claim 2, further including a punch card device in communication with the processor portion, the punch card device for receiving a punch card indicative of desired items of a customer, wherein the processor portion inputs data of input by the punch card reader effects movement of the robot using the transfer portion to locations in the retail environment in which the desired items are located. 34. The robot according to claim 2, further including a wireless receiver, the wireless receiver for inputting communications from customers regarding desired items sold in the retail environment. 35. A retail activity environment system, the system comprising: a robot for use in the retail environment, the robot comprising: a processor portion for processing data in the robot; a memory portion, the processor portion storing data in the memory portion and retrieving data from the memory portion, the memory portion storing retail data relating to retail activity; an interaction portion for interfacing with a customer, the interaction portion receiving input from the customer and generating output to the customer, the output based on the retail data relating to retail activity, the processor portion controlling the interaction portion; and a transport portion, the processor portion controlling the transport portion to transport the robot from a first location to a second location; and a base station, the base station interfacing with the robot to exchange data with the robot, the base station including a base computer system. 36. The retail activity environment system according to claim 35, wherein the base station includes a robot interface portion, the robot interface portion inputting data from the robot and outputting data to the robot; and the robot includes a base interface portion the base interface portion inputting data from the base and outputting data to the base. 37. The retail activity environment system according to claim 35, wherein the base station includes a docking station having a charger; and the robot includes a power source for powering the transport portion, the docking station being physically interfaceable with the robot; and wherein the charger being an electrical communication with the power source of the robot when the robot is physically interfaced with the base station. 38. The retail activity environment system according to claim 37, wherein the docking station and the base computer system are disposed in different physical locations, the base computer system and the docking station being in communication with each other. 39. The retail activity environment system according to claim 38, further including a network system, the network system providing communication between the base computer system and the docking station. 40. The retail activity environment system according to claim 37, wherein the base computer system includes a base computing system transponder and the robot includes a robot transponder controlled by the processor portion, wherein the robot and the base computer system communicate using the robot transponder and the base computer system transponder, respectively. 41. A retail system for use in a retail environment, the retail system comprising: a processor portion for processing data in the retail system; a memory portion, the processor portion storing data in the memory portion and retrieving data from the memory portion, the memory portion storing retail data relating to retail activity; an interaction portion for interfacing with a customer or other person, the interaction portion receiving input from the customer and generating output to the customer, the output based on the retail data relating to retail activity, and the interaction portion sensing the approach of a customer in the retail environment, the processor portion controlling the interaction portion and outputting a communication to the customer when the approach of the customer is sensed; and a transport portion that transports the retail system form a first location to a second location, the transport portion being controlled by the processor portion. 42. A robot for use in a retail environment, the robot comprising: a processor portion for processing data in the robot; a memory portion, the processor portion storing data in the memory portion and retrieving data from the memory portion, the memory portion storing retail data relating to retail activity; an interaction portion for interfacing with a customer, the interaction portion receiving input from the customer and generating output to the customer, the output based on the retail data relating to retail activity, the processor portion controlling the interaction portion; a transport portion for transporting the robot from a first location to a second location; a body portion, the body portion containing at least one of the processor portion, the memory portion, and the interaction portion; a sensor system including a plurality of sensors mounted on the body portion and in communication with the processor portion, the plurality of sensors inputting information relating to the retail environment, the sensor system communicating the information to the processor portion, wherein the sensors input obstacle information relating to obstacles in the retail environment, the sensor system communicating the obstacle information to the processor portion, the processor portion controlling the transport portion to effect movement from the first location to the second location while avoiding the obstacles, the sensors include at least one of a visual sensor and audio sensor; a recording portion, the recording portion recording visual image information and audio information by the at least one of the visual sensor and the audio sensor; and a transmission portion, the transmission portion outputting the visual image information and audio information to a destination outside of the robot. 