A printhead includes a receiving member defined in a receiving zone. At least one printhead module is received in the receiving zone of the receiving member. Complementary locating formations are carried by the receiving member and the at least one printhead module. The locating formations enable relative movement of the at least one printhead module, due to expansion, in three orthogonal axes relative to the receiving member.
Claims We claim: 1. A printhead for pagewidth ink jet printer, the printhead comprising an elongate receiving member having opposed walls interconnected by a bridging portion to define a receptacle and a number of locating formations; and a plurality of printhead modules arranged in end-to-end relationship in the receptacle, each printhead module defining complementary locating formations and being received in the receptacle so that the locating formations engage each other, with each module extending along a longitudinal axis of the receiving member, the locating formations of the receiving member and the printhead module being configured so that expansion of each printhead module relative to the receiving member along the longitudinal axis is accommodated, each printhead module defining a channel in which a printhead chip is receivable, each channel being angled with respect to its associated module so that the printhead chips of adjacent modules overlap, wherein each printhead module has a set of locating formations and wherein the receiving member has a complementary set of locating formations at a location for each module in the receptacle, wherein the locating formations of the receiving member are a pair of longitudinally spaced engaging members arranged on one wall of the receiving member and a securing member arranged on an opposed wall of the receiving member, and wherein the locating formations of each module are a pair of longitudinally spaced recesses defined along one side of each module, the engaging members of the receiving member being received in respective recesses and a locating recess defined in an opposed side of each module for engaging the securing member, the longitudinally spaced recesses and the engaging members being configured to accommodate longitudinal expansion of the module relative to the channel member. 2. The printhead of claim 1 in which the locating formations of the receiving member and the modules are shaped to accommodate expansion of the modules relative to the receiving member in a direction normal to a plane of said longitudinal axis. 3. The printhead of claim 1 in which the locating formations of the receiving member and the modules are shaped to accommodate expansion of the modules relative to the receiving member in a direction of a plane of said longitudinal axis but normal to said longitudinal axis. 