A robotic crash protection device is adapted to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool for detecting a crash. The device includes a housing, a piston having a generally central bore movably mounted within the housing, an actuator for engaging the piston and moving the piston in response to a crash, and a switch disposed within the housing and generally aligned with the bore of the piston. The switch contacts are disposed such that in a default position the bore of the piston engages the contacts and maintains the contacts in one switch state, and in the event of a crash the piston moves and permits the contacts to assume the opposite switch state. A non-circular contact surface between the actuator and the piston ensures a consistent response to lateral forces applied in to the axial direction in any radial direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic crash protection device adapted to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool for detecting a crash, comprising: a housing; a piston having a generally central bore movably mounted within the housing; an actuator for engaging said piston and moving the piston in response to a crash; a switch disposed within the housing and generally aligned with the bore of said piston and having a pair of contacts operative to move between first and second positions, and wherein the contacts are disposed such that in a default position the bore of the piston engages the contacts and maintains the contacts in the first position, and in a position resulting from a crash the bore of the piston permits the contacts to assume the second position. 2. The robotic crash protection device of claim 1 further comprising an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the sensitivity of the crash protection device by adjusting the position of said switch with respect to said bore of said piston. 3. The robotic crash protection device of claim 2 wherein said adjustment mechanism includes a screw threaded into a portion of said switch such that said switch is moved axially within the bore of the piston in response to the turning of said screw. 4. The robotic crash protection device of claim 3 further comprising a spring interposed between said screw and said switch. 5. The robotic crash protection device of claim 1 wherein the contacts of said switch are biased to said second position where the contact are open, and wherein in a default mode the bore of said piston engages the contacts and maintains the contacts in said first position where the contacts are closed, and wherein when said piston moves such that the contacts clear the bore, the contacts assume said second position. 6. The robotic crash protection device of claim 1 including a sleeve that extends through the bore of said piston, and wherein at least a portion of said switch is housed within said sleeve. 7. The robotic crash protection device of claim 6 further including an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the sensitivity of the crash protection device by adjusting the position of said switch with respect to the bore of said piston; and wherein said adjustment mechanism includes a screw threaded into a portion of said switch such that said switch is moved axially within the bore of said piston and axially within said sleeve in response to the turning of said screw. 8. The robotic crash protection device of claim 7 wherein said switch includes a carrier having the contacts secured thereto and a collar extending around at least a portion of said switch and seated within said sleeve so as to prevent said switch from rotating within said sleeve in response to said screw being turned. 9. The robotic crash protection device of claim 7 wherein said screw projects axially through a portion of said sleeve, and wherein there is provided a spring housed within said sleeve, said screw operative to bias said screw in one direction. 10. A robotic crash protection device, comprising: a housing for attachment to a robot arm or a robotic tool, said housing containing a first cavity; a piston disposed in said housing and containing a bore therethrough, said piston forming a fluid chamber in said first cavity whereby fluid in said chamber urges said piston to a first position; a stem for attachment to the other of the robot arm or the robotic tool, said stem operative to move said piston from said first position in response to a crash by the robotic tool; and a switch adjustably disposed in said housing, said switch comprising contacts extending into the bore of said piston and actuated by said bore to place said switch in a first state when said piston is in said first position, and said contacts placing said switch in a second state in response to said piston moving from said first position. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the sensitivity of said device is adjustable by altering the axial position of said switch within said housing and the bore of said piston when said piston is in the extended position. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein placing said switch closer to said stem increases the sensitivity of said device. 13. An electrical sensor for a robotic crash protection device, comprising: a switch disposed within said robotic crash protection device, said switch including two contacts, each said contact including an engagement surface; a dielectric annular collar, and an adjustment screw threadedly connected to said switch and operative to alter the axial position of said switch with respect to said collar; such that said switch is actuated to a first state when said engagement surfaces are confined within said collar in a default condition of said robotic crash protection device, and said switch is actuated to a second state by said engagement surfaces moving outside of said collar in response to a robotic tool crash that transitions said robotic crash protection device out of said default condition. 14. The sensor of claim 13, wherein said switch includes at least one flat section, and further including a collet with a flat void mated to said flat section and operative to restrict rotating motion of said switch within said collar when said screw is turned. 15. The sensor of claim 14, wherein the length of relative motion in an axial direction between said collar and said engagement surfaces required to actuate said switch from said first state to said second state is adjustable by said screw. 16. A method of detecting a crash of a robotic tool moved by a robot arm, comprising: interposing a crash protection device between the robotic tool and the robot arm, said device including a base; securing a switch including a pair of engagement surfaces in an adjustable spaced manner to said base, said switch biased to a second state; maintaining said switch in a first state by engaging said engagement surfaces with the inner surface of a cylinder, said cylinder moveable relative to said base and at least partially enclosing said engagement surfaces in a default condition; moving said cylinder in response to a crash of the robotic tool so as to slide said cylinder away from said engagement surfaces, allowing said switch to transition to said second state; and sensing said second state of said switch as indicative of a crash of the robotic tool. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising adjusting the position of said switch relative to said base to alter the degree of motion of said cylinder required to allow said switch to transition to said second state. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein adjusting the position of said switch comprises turning a screw connecting said switch with said base. 19. A method of actuating a switch contained within a robotic crash protection device and signaling a crash, comprising: biasing contacts associated with said switch to an open position; closing said switch by engaging said contacts with a moveable circular surface contained within said robotic crash protection device and urging said contacts inwardly to where said contacts touch; enabling said contacts to assume the open position by moving said circular surface relative to said contacts such that said contacts may spring to the open position; and emitting a crash signal in response to said circular surface moving sufficient to enable the state of said switch to change from an open to a closed position or vice versa. 20. A method of actuating a switch contained in a robotic crash protection device and signaling a crash, comprising: biasing contacts of said switch to an open or closed position, wherein in said closed position said switch assumes a first state and in said open position said switch assumes a second state; positioning said switch in the crash protection device such that during at least one state of said switch, a bore area, associated with a moveable piston disposed within said crash protection device, extends around and engages said contacts of said switch; and in response to a crash, moving said piston and bore area such that said switch is actuated from one state to the other state, resulting in a crash signal being emitted. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the bore area of said piston includes a collar. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein in one state the bore area of said piston engages the contacts of said switch, and in the other state the bore area is spaced from the contacts. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein the contacts of said switch are biased to assume an open position and wherein in a default position the bore area of said piston engages the contacts and maintains the contacts in a closed position. 24. The method of claim 20 including adjusting the sensitivity of said crash protection device by axially adjusting said switch with respect to the bore area of said piston. 25. The method of claim 24 including engaging said switch with a screw and turning said screw so as to move said switch axially with respect to the bore area of said piston. 26. A robotic crash protection device adapted to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool for detecting a crash, comprising: a housing having a central axis and an annular engagement surface; a piston movably mounted within said housing; a sensor operative to detect axial movement of said piston within said housing and to indicate a crash in response thereto; an actuator including a plurality of contact points and an annular rim, said actuator maintained adjacent said piston and generally aligned with said central axis in a default state, and operative to transition to a non-axially aligned position in response to a lateral force applied thereto, said actuator in said non-axially aligned position pivoting on either one or more of said contact points or the point of contact between said annular rim and said engagement surface; and a multi-lobed contact surface between said piston and said actuator such that upon application of a lateral force to said actuator in any radial direction, the distance between the point of contact between said actuator and said piston on said contact surface, and the pivot point of said actuator, is substantially equal. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein said multi-lobed contact surface is affixed to said piston. 28. The device of claim 26, wherein said lobes of said multi-lobed contact surface are maintained in general radial alignment with the respective said contact points on said actuator via at least one rotation restricting member affixed in spaced relationship with said multi-lobed contact surface, said rotation restricting member having an elongate axial opening therein, and a corresponding insertion member affixed to said housing and inserted at least partially into said elongate axial opening, said insertion member moving freely within said elongate axial opening as said rotation restricting member moves in an axial direction within said housing, and said insertion member operative to restrict rotational motion of said rotation restricting member. 29. The device of claim 26, wherein said actuator includes three said contact points affixed thereto, and wherein said multi-lobed contact surface includes three said lobes. 30. A robotic crash protection device adapted to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool for detecting a crash, comprising: a housing having a base; a piston movably mounted within said housing; a sensor operative to detect axial movement of said piston within said housing towards said base and to indicate a crash in response thereto; an actuator maintained adjacent said piston opposite said base and biased in a direction away from said base by said piston, said actuator operative to move said piston in a direction toward said base in response to a crash; and a cap rigidly affixed to said housing and arresting movement of said actuator in a direction away from said base, said cap including an annular adjustment ring adjustably attached thereto for adjusting the clearance between said actuator and said cap in a non-crash condition. 31. The device of claim 30, wherein said annular adjustment ring is threadedly attached to said cap. 32. A robotic crash protection device to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool for detecting a crash, comprising: a housing; a piston moveably mounted within the housing; a sensor operative to detect movement of the piston and to indicate a crash in response to a certain movement of the piston; and an adjustment ring adjustably connected to the housing for adjusting the clearance between the actuator and the housing. 33. The robotic crash protection device of claim 32 wherein the actuator extends through the adjustment ring. 34. The robotic crash protection device of claim 32 wherein the adjustment ring includes a bearing surface for engaging a portion of the actuator. 35. The robotic crash protection device of claim 32 wherein the adjustment ring extends around the actuator and a portion of the actuator projects from the housing and through the adjustment ring. 36. The robotic crash protection device of claim 35 wherein the housing includes a side having a threaded opening formed therein, and wherein the adjustment ring includes a threaded portion that enables the adjustment ring to be threadedly secured within the threaded opening formed in the side of the housing. 37. A robotic crash protection device adapted to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool for detecting a crash, comprising: a housing; a piston moveably mounted within the housing; an actuator moveably mounted in the housing and operative to move axially and to tilt within the housing; a contact surface interposed between the piston and actuator such that the movement of the contact surface in response to the movement of the actuator can result in the movement of the piston; the contact surface being configured such that generally equal lateral forces applied around the actuator, result in a generally equal force being transmitted to the piston; and a sensor operative to detect movement of the piston and to indicate a crash in response to the movement of the piston. 38. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein various moment arms are created as a result of said actuator tilting in response to various lateral loads, and wherein said moment arms are generally equal for lateral forces applied around said actuator. 39. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein said actuator moves about one or more points in response to lateral loads being applied to said actuator, and wherein a moment arm is defined between one point or a line connecting two points and an engagement point where said actuator engages said contact surface; and wherein said moment arms created for a series of lateral loads applied around said actuator are generally equal. 40. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein said actuator tilts about one or more points and wherein said contact surface includes a noncircular surface having a central area and a series of outer areas that project from said central area towards said points. 41. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein the angular position of said contact surface is fixed relative to said actuator. 42. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein in response to a lateral force being applied to the actuator, the actuator moves about at least one point. 43. The robotic crash protection device of claim 42 wherein in response to a lateral force being applied to the actuator, the actuator moves about the least one point and thereafter engages at least a second point and moves about the second point. 44. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein the actuator includes a series of curved-shaped bearing points and wherein at least a portion of the actuator is disposed adjacent an engagement surface; and wherein in response to a lateral load being applied to the actuator, the actuator moves about at least one of the curved-shaped bearing points and thereafter a portion of the actuator engages the engagement surface and moves about one or more points on the engagement surface. 45. The robotic crash protection device of claim 44 wherein a moment arm is created between the at least one curved-shaped bearing point and a point where the actuator engages the contact surface; and wherein there is a second moment arm created between the at least one point where the actuator engages the engagement surface and the point where the actuator engages the contact surface. 46. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein the actuator includes first and second surfaces; wherein disposed adjacent the actuator is first engagement surface and a second engagement surface; and wherein in response to a lateral force being applied to the actuator, the actuator moves about at least one point due to the engagement of the first surface of the actuator with the first engagement surface and moves about at least one second point due to the engagement of the second surface of the actuator engaging the second engagement surface. 47. The robotic crash protection device of claim 46 wherein the first surface of the actuator includes a series of curved-shaped contact points. 48. The robotic crash protection device of claim 47 wherein the second surface of the actuator includes an annular surface formed on the actuator and wherein the second engagement surface extends around the actuator and lies adjacent the annular surface of the actuator. 49. The robotic crash protection device of claim 48 wherein the first engagement surface includes a cam surface disposed adjacent the curved-shaped contacts points of the actuator and the second engagement surface includes an annular engagement surface, and wherein in response to a lateral force being applied against the actuator, one or more of the curved-shaped contact points engages the cam surface and the actuator moves about the one or more contact points and thereafter the annular surface of the actuator engages the adjacent annular engagement surface such that the actuator moves about a contact point created by the engagement of the annular surface of the actuator with the annular engagement surface. 50. The robotic crash protection device of claim 37 wherein the actuator includes a series of curved-shaped bearing points disposed adjacent a cam surface that extends around the actuator and wherein the actuator is provided with an annular surface that is disposed adjacent an overlying engagement surface; and wherein in response to a lateral force applied to the actuator, the actuator may move about one or more of the curved-shaped bearing points due to the engagement of the one or more curved-shaped bearing points with the cam surface and may also move about at least one other point due to the engagement of the annular surface of the actuator with the adjacent engagement surface. 