A semiconductor processing workpiece support which includes a detection subsystem that detects whether a wafer or other workpiece is present. The preferred arrangement uses an optical beam emitter and an optical beam detector mounted along the back side of a rotor which acts as a workpiece holder. The emitted beam passes through the workpiece holder and is reflected by any workpiece present in the workpiece holder. The preferred units include both an optical emitter and pair of detectors. The detection is preferably able to discriminate on the basis of the angle of the reflected beam, so that a portion of the beam reflected by the workpiece holder is not considered or minimized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece of the type used in manufacturing microelectronic components, the apparatus comprising: a processing container adapted to hold a processing fluid used to process the workpiece; a workpiece holder for holding the workpiece in a processing position with respect to the processing container during processing; an electronic workpiece detection system providing an output signal indicative of the presence and absence of a workpiece on the workpiece holder; a control system for executing handling operations in response to the output signal received from the electronic workpiece detection system; and wherein the processing container and workpiece holder are adapted to electroplate the workpiece. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the control system executes operational safeguards to prevent mishandling of a workpiece in response to the output signal of the electronic workpiece detection system after the apparatus has experienced a power interruption. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the electronic workpiece detection system comprises: an electromagnetic energy emitter for emitting electromagnetic energy in a direction for reflection by a workpiece held by the workpiece holder when a workpiece is present on the workpiece holder; an electromagnetic energy detector for detecting the presence of reflected electromagnetic energy indicative of the presence of a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said electronic workpiece detection system provides an output signal indicative of the presence of a workpiece based on the angle at which reflected electromagnetic energy is received by the electromagnetic energy detector. 5. An apparatus for processing a workpiece of the type used in manufacturing microelectronic components, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of workpiece supports and corresponding processing bases each defining a processing station; an electronic workpiece detection system for detecting the presence and absence of a workpiece at each of the processing stations; a control system for executing workpiece handling operations in response to the electronic workpiece detection system; and wherein at least one of the plurality of processing stations is adapted to electroplate a workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the control system executes operational safeguards to prevent mishandling of workpieces in response to the electronic workpiece detection system after the apparatus has experienced a power interruption. 7. An apparatus for processing a workpiece of the type used in manufacturing microelectronic components, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of workpiece processing stations, each processing station including a workpiece holder for holding a workpiece, a processing base adapted to receive a processing fluid used to process the workpiece, the workpiece holder and processing base being movable relative to one another between a first position in which a workpiece is loaded to or removed from the processing station and a second position in which the workpiece holder is proximate the processing base for Processing of a workpiece held thereby, and an electronic workpiece detection system providing an output signal indicative of the presence and absence of a workpiece on the workpiece holder; a control system for executing workpiece handling operations in response to the output signals received from the electronic workpiece detection systems; and wherein at least one of the plurality of processing stations is adapted to electroplate a workpiece. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the control system executes operational safeguards to prevent mishandling of a workpiece in response to the output signal of the electronic workpiece detection system after the apparatus has experienced a power interruption. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the electronic workpiece detection system comprises: an electromagnetic energy emitter for emitting electromagnetic energy in a direction for reflection by a workpiece herd by the workpiece holder when a workpiece is present on the workpiece holder; an electromagnetic energy detector for detecting the presence of reflected electromagnetic energy indicative of the presence of a workpiece held by the workpiece holder. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said electronic workpiece detection system provides an output signal indicative of the presence of a workpiece based on the angle at which reflected electromagnetic energy is received by the electromagnetic energy detector. 11. An apparatus for processing a workpiece of the type used in manufacturing microelectronic components, the apparatus comprising: electrolytic deposition means for depositing a metal onto a surface of the workpiece; workpiece detection means for detecting the presence and absence of a workpiece at the electrolytic deposition means; and control means for controlling handling of wafers in the apparatus in response to the workpiece detection means. 