A fluid dispensing system and method includes a pump to aspirate and expel sample fluid, a fluid dispensing tip, and a metering station. The fluid dispensing tip includes a working fluid and an air gap where the air gap separates the working fluid from the sample fluid. The metering station receives a drop of sample fluid that is at least twice as large as the predetermined volume to ultimately be dispensed. The fluid dispensing tip then withdraws the predetermined volume of fluid from the sample fluid. Precise volumes are ascertained by prior knowledge of the geometry of the fluid dispensing tip and by using an imaging device to monitor an interface of either the sample fluid or working fluid with the air gap within the fluid dispensing tip. The system and method are capable of accurately dispensing very small volumes of sample fluid on the order of 10 picoliters. In addition, the system and method do not require large volumes of sample fluid to prime a pump mechanism.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for dispensing specified volumes of fluid, the apparatus comprising: a fluid dispensing tip; a pump for aspirating fluid within said fluid dispensing tip, and for forcing said fluid to be dispensed from said fluid dispensing tip; a tape having an inert surface positioned to receive sample fluid in the form of a drop of a first volume from said fluid-dispensing tip, said tape being translatable under said fluid-dispensing tip so as to receive multiple drops of sample fluid at multiple locations; and means for selectively retrieving a second volume of said sample fluid from said drop on said metering station which is smaller than said first volume and dispensing said second volume of said sample fluid at a desired location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tape has apertures therethough, and wherein said means for selectively retrieving and dispensing said second volume causes said fluid dispensing tip to pass through at least one of said apertures during dispensing of said second volume. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dispensing tip is translatable in a Z-axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said fluid dispensing tip is configured to contain 1 picoliter to 10 nanoliters of a sample fluid at an end, an air gap positioned above the sample fluid, and a working fluid positioned above said air gap. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said pump is adapted to maintain said working fluid in said fluid-dispensing tip and adapted to aspirate said first volume of said sample fluid into said fluid dispensing tip and expel said first volume of said sample fluid from said fluid dispensing tip. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said pump is a piezo pump. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pump is a piezo pump. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dispensing tip is transparent or translucent, and said means for selectively retrieving and dispensing said second volume of sample fluid includes an imaging device which is used to detect an interface in said dispensing tip of an air gap and a fluid. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a means for autofocussing on a drop of sample fluid being expelled from said dispensing tip. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a means for advancing said tape in at least one direction. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a means for advancing said tape in at least two opposite directions. 