A method and apparatus for fabricating known good semiconductor dice are provided. The method includes the steps of: testing the gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to singulate a die; and then testing the die by assembly in a carrier having an interconnect adapted to establish electrical communication between the bond pads on the die and external test circuitry. The interconnect for the carrier can be formed using different contact technologies including: thick film contact members on a rigid substrate; self-limiting contact members on a silicon substrate; or microbump contact members with a textured surface. During assembly of the carrier, the die and interconnect are optically aligned and placed into contact with a predetermined contact force. This establishes an electrical connection between the contact members on the interconnect and the bond pads of the die. In the assembled carrier the die and interconnect are biased together by a force distribution mechanism that includes a bridge clamp, a pressure plate and a spring clip. Following testing of the die, the carrier is disassembled and the tested die is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing integrated circuits comprising the steps of: fabricating a plurality of die on a wafer; segmenting said plurality of die to form a plurality of bare die; while said plurality of bare die are devoid of any packaging, performing electrical functionality on testing each of said plurality of bare die to identify satisfactorily nondefective die; and packaging said satisfactorily nondefective die. 2. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the steps are performed in the recited order. 3. A method of manufacturing integrated circuits, comprising the following acts performed in order: forming a plurality of circuit die on a substrate; segmenting the plurality of die from one another to form a plurality of bare die; while the plurality of bare die are devoid of any packaging, subjecting the bare die to electrical functionality testing to identify functional die; and subsequent to the electrical testing, packaging the functional die of the plurality of tested die to form integrated circuits. 4. The method, as set forth in claim 3, wherein the acts are performed in the recited order. 5. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit, comprising the acts of: fabricating a singulated bare die; while the singulated bare die is devoid of any packaging, performing electrical functionality testing on the singulated bare die to identify functional die; and packaging the functional die to form an integrated circuit. 6. The method, as set forth in claim 5, wherein the acts are performed in the recited order. 7. A method of fabricating a packaged integrated circuit assembly, comprising the acts of: manufacturing a singulated bare die for use in the integrated circuit; while the singulated bare die is devoid of any packaging, establishing electrical contact with the singulated bare die and performing electrical functionality testing of the singulated bare die to identify functional die; and assembling the functional singulated bare die into a packaged integrated circuit assembly. 8. The method, as set forth in claim 7, wherein the acts are performed in the recited order. 9. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit, the method comprising the acts of: (a) providing a wafer having a plurality of die; (b) performing a first electrical functionality test on the plurality of die on the wafer; (c) segmenting the wafer into a plurality of individual bare die; and (d) performing a second electrical functionality test of at least a portion of the individual bare die while such die are devoid of any packaging. 10. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein act (a) comprises the step of: fabricating the plurality of die on the wafer. 11. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein act (b) comprises the step of: identifying which of the plurality of die on the wafer do not pass the first electrical functionality test. 12. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein act (c) comprises the step of: placing the individual bare die into a respective carrier. 13. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein act (d) comprises the step of: performing the second electrical functionality test at ambient temperature. 14. The method, as set forth in claim 12, wherein act (d) comprises the step of: removing the individual die from the respective carrier. 15. The method, as set forth in claim 9, wherein the acts are performed in the recited order. 