The present invention provides a method of performing an endoscopic surgical procedure on a target site within a body cavity of a patient. In one embodiment, the method comprises operatively coupling moveable actuator pins of a surgical instrument with a driver of a robotic arm to releasably couple the surgical instrument to the robotic arm. A distal portion of said surgical instrument is introduced through a percutaneous penetration into the body cavity within the patient. The surgical instrument can be pivoted about the percutaneous penetration by moving a proximal portion of said instrument outside the body cavity with a plurality of degrees of freedom of movement using the robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing an endoscopic surgical procedure on a target site within a body cavity of a patient comprising: operatively coupling moveable actuator pins of a surgical instrument with a driver of a robotic arm to releasably couple the surgical instrument to the robotic arm; introducing a distal portion of said surgical instrument through a percutaneous penetration into the body cavity within the patient; pivoting the surgical instrument about the percutaneous penetration by moving a proximal portion of said instrument outside the body cavity with a plurality of degrees of freedom of movement using the robotic arm. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising establishing a center of rotation at a desired location along said surgical instrument, such that said robotic arm constrains movement of the instrument about said center of rotation in the course of manipulation of tissue with the instrument within the body cavity. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein an end effector is operatively coupled to the actuator pins with a linkage, wherein displacing the actuator pins along a shaft of the surgical instrument actuates the end effector. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein coupling comprises releasably disposing the actuator pins within an aperture of the driver. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the actuator pins extend through a slot in the surgical instrument and are positioned substantially orthogonal to the linkage. 6. The method of claim 3 further comprising moving the end effectors with a plurality of degrees of freedom of movement within the body cavity of the patient. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the end effectors of the surgical instrument has three degrees of freedom. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein said end effector moves in said plurality of degrees of freedom of movement within the body cavity of the patient relative to said proximal portion of said surgical instrument. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein said plurality of degrees of freedom of movement includes rotation of said end effector about a substantially longitudinal axis of said instrument, and articulating the end effector with respect to said proximal portion of said instrument about a distal axis, while maintaining operative coupling between said actuator pins and said driver. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein rotation of the end effector and articulating the end effector is achieved by inputting commands through a control console comprising at least one control handle. 11. The method of claim 3 comprising opening and closing jaws of the end effector. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising remotely controlling movement of the surgical instrument with an input control device. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising detecting forces and torques applied to the surgical instrument. 14. The method of claim 13 comprising transmitting feedback signals to the input control device based on the forces and torques applied to the surgical instrument. 15. A method of performing a procedure in a body of a patient comprising: releasably coupling a surgical instrument to a robotic arm comprising a plurality of linkages and joints; operatively coupling at least one moveable actuator pin of said surgical instrument with a driver of said robotic arm; introducing a distal portion of said surgical instrument through a percutaneous penetration into the patient, said distal portion comprising an end effector; pivoting said surgical instrument about said percutaneous penetration by moving a proximal portion of said surgical instrument outside said patient's body with a plurality of degrees of freedom of movement using said robotic arm; articulating said end effector of said surgical instrument relative to said proximal portion and within said patient's body; and actuating said end effector by displacing said at least one moveable actuator pin. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said pivoting of said surgical instrument, said articulating of said end effector, and said actuating of said end effector are achieved by inputting commands through a control console comprising at least one control handle. 17. The method of claim 15 or 16, further comprising rotating said distal portion of said surgical instrument about an axis extending through said percutaneous penetration and along a longitudinal axis of said surgical instrument while maintaining operative coupling of said at least one moveable actuator pin with said driver. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein articulating said end effector comprises rotating said end effector about an axis that is substantially perpendicular to said axis extending through said percutaneous penetration. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein said operatively coupling at least one moveable actuator pin of said surgical instrument with a driver of said robotic arm comprises seating said at least one actuator pin in a recess. 20. A method of performing a procedure in a body of a patient comprising: releasably coupling a surgical instrument to a robotic arm that comprises a plurality of linkages and joints; operatively coupling two moveable actuator pins of said surgical instrument with said robotic arm; introducing a distal portion of said surgical instrument through a percutaneous penetration into the patient, said distal portion comprising an end effector; pivoting said surgical instrument about the percutaneous penetration by moving a proximal portion of said surgical instrument outside said patient's body with a plurality of degrees of freedom of movement using said robotic arm; articulating said end effector of said surgical instrument relative to said proximal portion and within said patient's body; and actuating said end effector by displacing said moveable actuator pins. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said pivoting of said surgical instrument, said articulating of said end effector, and said actuating of said end effector are achieved by inputting commands through a control console comprising at least one control handle. 22. The method of claim 20 or 21, further comprising rotating said distal portion of said surgical instrument about an axis extending through said percutaneous penetration and along said surgical instrument while maintaining operative coupling of said moveable actuator pins with said driver. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein articulating said end effector comprises rotating said end effector about an axis that is substantially perpendicular to said axis extending through said percutaneous penetration. 24. The method of claim 20 wherein said operatively coupling said moveable actuator pins of said surgical instrument with a driver of said robotic arm comprises seating said actuator pins in a recess. 