The present invention provides a multiple part capillary for use in mass analysis instruments. Specifically, a multiple part capillary comprising at least two capillary sections joined with airtight seal by a union for use in mass spectrometry (particularly with ionization sources) to transport ions between pressure regions of a mass spectrometer for analysis is described herein. Preferably, the capillary is useful to transport ions from an elevated pressure ionization source to a first vacuum region of a mass analysis system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for transporting ions from an ionization source region to a first vacuum region within a mass spectrometer, wherein said apparatus comprises: first and second capillary sections each having a channel therethrough having an inlet end and an outlet end; and a union having first and second openings, said union configured to removably interface said outlet end of said first capillary section to said inlet end of said second capillary section such that ions may be delivered from said source region into said first vacuum region through said first and second capillary sections; wherein said union comprises means for providing a substantially airtight seal between said source region and said first vacuum region such that a low pressure is substantially maintained within said first vacuum region upon decoupling of said first capillary section from said second capillary section. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first section comprises a channel having a helical structure. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said union comprises means for removably securing said ends of said first and second sections. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said union comprises means for providing an airtight seal between said ends of said first and second sections within said union. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said inlet and said outlet ends of said second section comprise conductive end caps. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said ionization source is selected from the group consisting of an atmospheric pressure ionization (API) source, an electrospray ionization source, a pneumatic assisted electrospray source, an electron impact source, a chemical ionization source, a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization source, a plasma desorption source, and a liquid chromatography source. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is used to multiplex sample materials. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary sections is flexible. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary sections is a heated capillary tube. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary sections is insulating. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary sections is metallic. 12. A system for performing mass spectrometric analysis, wherein said system comprises: at least one ion source for producing ions in a source region; a mass spectrometer having an inlet orifice configured to accept the ions; and a multiple part capillary device configured to provide a removable interface between said source region and a first vacuum region of said mass spectrometer, said multiple part capillary device comprising at least a first capillary member and a second capillary member, wherein said first capillary member removably couples in coaxial alignment with said second capillary member at said removable interface; wherein said removable interface substantially maintains pressure conditions of said first vacuum region of mass spectrometer upon decoupling of said first capillary member from said second capillary member. 13. A system according to claim 12, wherein said multiple part capillary device comprises: means for sealing said removable interface between said ion source and said mass spectrometer. 14. A system according to claim 12, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members comprises a channel having a helical structure. 15. A system according to claim 12, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members is insulating. 16. A system according to claim 12, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members is metallic. 17. A system according to claim 12, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members comprises a flexible tube. 18. A system according to claim 12, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members comprises a heated capillary tube. 19. A system according to claim 12, wherein said at least one ion source is selected from the group consisting of an electrospray ion source, an atmospheric pressure ionization source, a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization ion source, a pneumatic assisted electrospray source, an electron impact source, a chemical ionization source, a plasma desorption source and a liquid chromatography source. 20. A system according to claim 12, wherein said mass spectrometer is selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass spectrometer, a time-of-flight mass spectrometer, an ion trap mass spectrometer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer, and a magnetic sector mass spectrometer. 21. A system according to claim 12, wherein said inlet end and said outlet end of said second capillary member comprise conductive end caps. 22. A system according to claim 12, wherein said mass spectrometer is selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass spectrometer, a time-of-flight mass spectrometer, an ion trap mass spectrometer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer, and a magnetic sector mass spectrometer. 23. A method for performing mass analyses using at least one mass spectrometer, wherein said method comprises the steps of: generating ions in an ion source region; removably interfacing said ion source region and a first vacuum region of said mass spectrometer with a multiple part capillary, wherein said multiple part capillary comprises first and second capillary members; delivering said ions from said ion source region into said first vacuum region via said multiple part capillary; and performing at least one mass analysis on said ions in said at least one mass spectrometer; wherein pressure conditions of said first vacuum region are substantially maintained upon separation of said first and second capillary members of said multiple part capillary. 24. A method according to claim 23, wherein said ions are generated in said ion source region using a source selected from the group consisting of an electrospray ion source, an atmospheric pressure ionization source, a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization ion source, a pneumatic assisted electrospray source, an electron impact source, a chemical ionization source, a plasma desorption source and a liquid chromatography source. 25. A method according to claim 23, wherein said mass analysis is performed using a mass analyzer selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass analyzer, a time-of-flight mass analyzer, an ion trap mass analyzer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer, and a magnetic sector mass analyzer. 26. A method according to claim 23, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members is flexible. 27. A method according to claim 23, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members is a heated capillary tube. 28. A method according to claim 23, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members is insulating. 29. A method according to claim 23, wherein at least one of said first and second capillary members is metallic. 30. A method according to claim 23, wherein said inlet end and said outlet end of said second capillary section comprise conductive end caps. 