A method and associated apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a substrate having a metal seed layer. The apparatus comprises a substrate holder that holds the substrate. The electrolyte cell receives the substrate in a processing position. The actuator is connected to the substrate holder and adjustably positions the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell. The method involves electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a substrate having a metal seed layer comprising disposing the substrate in an electrolyte cell that is configured to receive the substrate. The method comprises adjustably positioning the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a seed layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: a substrate holder configured to hold a substrate; an electrolyte cell configured to receive the substrate in a processing position; an actuator connected to the substrate holder, the actuator being configured to adjustably position the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell; and a sensor configured to sense an electric current density across the seed layer. 2. An apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a seed layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: a substrate holder configured to hold a substrate; an electrolyte cell having a body portion and an overflow portion, the overflow portion defining an opening for receiving the substrate in a processing position; and an actuator connected to the substrate holder, the actuator being configured to adjustably position the substrate relative to the body portion of the electrolyte cell. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the actuator is configured to position the substrate in a lateral direction relative to the electrolyte cell. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the actuator is configured to bow the substrate so that the center of the substrate is closer to an anode disposed in the electrolyte cell than the periphery of the substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the actuator is configured to vary a vertical distance between the substrate and the body portion. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the actuator is configured to adjust a vertical distance between the substrate and the body portion of the electrolyte cell. 7. The apparatus of claimed 2, wherein a diameter of the body portion is substantially the same as a diameter of the substrate. 8. An apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a seed layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: a substrate holder configured to hold a substrate; an electrolyte cell configured to receive the substrate in a processing position; an actuator connected to the substrate holder, the actuator being configured to bow the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell. 9. A method of controlling uniformity in a deposition depth of a metal film from the center of a seed layer on a substrate to the periphery of the seed layer, the method comprising: inserting a substrate having a seed layer into an electrolyte cell; and bowing the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein sensing the uniformity of an electric current density is performed after the substrate has been removed from the electrolyte cell. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein bowing the substrate comprises: applying a downward force to the substrate at a position between the center of the substrate and the periphery of the substrate; and applying an upward force to the substrate at the periphery of the substrate. 12. A method for controlling uniformity of a deposition depth of a metal film from the center of a seed layer on a substrate to the periphery of the seed layer, the method comprising: inserting a substrate having a seed layer into an electrolyte cell; and adjusting the horizontal position of the substrate within the electrolyte cell. 13. A method for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a substrate having a metal seed layer, the method comprising: disposing a substrate in an electrolyte cell having a body portion and an overflow portion, the overflow portion defining an opening for receiving the substrate in a processing position; and adjustably positioning the substrate relative to the body portion of the electrolyte cell. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein adjustably positioning comprises adjusting the vertical height of the substrate. 15. A method for controlling uniformity of deposition rate of a metal film on a substrate, the method comprising: disposing a substrate in an electrolyte cell; and adjusting the lateral position of the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell to control the deposition rate. 16. A method for controlling uniformity of deposition rate of a metal film on a substrate, the method comprising: disposing a substrate in an electrolyte cell; adjusting the curvature of the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell; and determining the uniformity of the deposition layer by measuring the thickness of the metal film. 17. An apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a substrate having a metal seed layer, comprising: a substrate holder for holding the substrate; an electrolyte cell having a body portion and an overflow portion, the overflow portion defining an opening for receiving the substrate in a processing position, and a metal deposition portion that provides for deposition of the metal film on the metal seed layer; and an actuator connected to the substrate holder for displacing the substrate holder in a substantially vertical direction to adjust the position of the substrate relative to the body portion of the electrolyte cell. 18. A method for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a seed layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: disposing a substrate in an electrolyte cell having a body portion and an overflow portion, the substrate being disposed above an upper edge of the body portion; varying a distance between the substrate and the upper edge of the body portion; and contacting a seed layer disposed on the substrate with an electrolyte solution. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein varying the distance comprises varying a vertical distance between the substrate and the upper edge of the body portion. 20. An apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a seed layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: an electrolyte cell configured to receive a substrate in a processing position; and a substrate holder having a thrust plate and a plurality of contact elements, the substrate holder being configured to hold the substrate between the thrust plate and the contact elements and to vary a cross-sectional shape of the substrate. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the thrust plate is configured to apply a downward force. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the contact elements are configured to apply an upward force. 23. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the thrust plate is configured to apply a downward force and the contact elements are configured to apply an upward force. 24. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the thrust plate has a diameter smaller than a diameter defined by the plurality of the contact elements. 25. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the cross-sectional shape of the substrate is such that a center of the substrate is lower than a periphery of the substrate. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the electrolyte cell comprises an anode disposed therein, and wherein the cross-sectional shape of the substrate is such that the center of the substrate is closer to the anode than the periphery of the substrate during processing. 27. A method for controlling uniformity of deposition rate of a metal film on a substrate, the method comprising: disposing a substrate in an electrolyte cell; and adjusting the curvature of the substrate relative to the electrolyte cell by applying a downward force at the center of the substrate and applying an upward force at the periphery of the substrate. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein adjusting the curvature of the substrate comprises bowing the substrate. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein adjusting the curvature of the substrate comprises adjusting the center of the substrate and periphery of the substrate so that the center of the substrate is not on a same plane as the periphery of the substrate. 30. An apparatus for electro-chemically depositing a metal film on a seed layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: a substrate holder configured to hold a substrate; an electrolyte cell configured to receive the substrate in the processing position and adapted to have an inner diameter substantially the same as a diameter of the substrate; a contact ring coupled to the substrate holder configured to dispose the substrate on the contact ring in a processing position, the contact ring and the electrolyte cell defining a gap therebetween; and an actuator coupled to the substrate holder, the actuator being configured to vary a distance defined by the gap. 