A system for collection of liquid phase sample fractions from a supercritical fluid chromatography system is disclosed. The system has different ways of gathering the liquid phase into a collection chamber and provides for automated removal of liquid phase from a collection chamber into separate collection container. A separate pressure scheme is invoked upon the collection chambers to move liquid phase out of a chamber and into the separate collection container. In addition, the invention provides a renewal system for the collection chambers where each chamber returns to an uncontaminated stated by washing with a cleaning solution after removal of collected liquid phase. Spent cleaner from a chamber is purged using the pressure system into a waste stream for disposal.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid comprising: means for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of the flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases: a collection chamber that collects liquid phase from the flow stream; a displacement force line connected to the chamber that applies a displacement force to the liquid phase, where the displacement force removes the liquid phase from the chamber; and a sample collection container that receives liquid phase removed from the chamber. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a robotic arm that receives liquid phase that is removed from the chamber and automatically dispenses the liquid phase into the collection container. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein: a plurality of the collection chambers that are secured in a support frame having a removable lid, thereby forming a cassette bank of chambers. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the displacement force is one of the following: a pressure force, a vacuum force, or gravity. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the collection container is one of the following: a test tube, a microtitration tray, or a sample vial. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a cleaning system for resetting the collection chamber to an uncontaminated state by automatically cleaning the chamber and thereafter purging cleaner contents to a waste stream. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a probe that delivers liquid phase into the chamber at an angle below horizontal and an angle tangential to the inner wall of the chamber to promote gentle delivery of liquid phase into the chamber. 8. A system for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid comprising: means for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of the flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases: a collection chamber that collects liquid phase from the flow stream; a displacement force line connected to the chamber that applies a displacement force to the liquid phase, where the displacement force moves the liquid phase from the chamber to a a sample collection container; and a pump that injects cleaning solution into a collection chamber for resetting the collection chamber to an uncontaminated state. 9. The system of claim 8, further comprising: a robotic arm that receives liquid phase that is removed from the chamber and automatically dispenses the liquid phase into the collection container. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein: a plurality of the collection chambers that are secured in a support frame having a removable lid, thereby forming a cassette bank of chambers. 11. The system of claim 8, further comprising: the displacement force is one of the following: a pressure force, a vacuum force, or gravity. 12. The system of claim 8, further comprising: the collection container is one of the following: a test tube, a microtitration tray, or a sample vial. 13. The system of claim 8, further comprising: a probe that delivers liquid phase into the chamber at an angle below horizontal and an angle tangential to the inner wall of the chamber to promote gentle delivery of liquid phase into the chamber. 14. A system for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid comprising: means for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of the flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; a valve for redirecting the flow stream into a collection chamber; a pressure supply system for applying a displacement force onto liquid phase collected in a chamber, thereby removing the liquid phase from the chamber; a sample collection container separate from the chamber for receiving displaced liquid phase; and a pump that injects cleaning solution into a collection chamber for resetting the collection chamber to an uncontaminated state by introducing a cleaning solution into the chamber, cleaning the chamber, and discharging the cleaning solution to a waste flow stream. 