A microelectronic substrate handling device comprising first and second support structures spaced from each other, the first support structure having a series of upper teeth defining a series of upper notches extending along a length of the first support structure and a series of lower teeth defining a series of lower notches extending along a length of the first support structure, each of the upper and lower notches opening toward the second support structure, wherein the upper and lower notches are offset from each other by a predetermined offset distance so that an edge of a microelectronic device will fit differently within the upper and lower notches of the first support structure when supported between the first and second support structures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microelectronic substrate handling device for immersion processing and for supporting and transfer of at least one generally planar microelectronic substrate, the handling device comprising a movable support member and first and second support structures extending from a surface of the movable support member and operatively spaced from each other to support at least one microelectronic substrate between the first and second support structures, the second support structure comprising a series of teeth defining a series of notches extending along a length of the second support structure and the first support structure comprising: a series of upper teeth extending along a length of the first support structure and defining a series of upper notches opening toward the series of notches of the second support structure for receiving an edge of a microelectronic substrate when supported by the first and second support structures, the upper teeth having substrate engaging surfaces angled with respect to the direction of extension of the upper teeth for engaging and urging substrates in a direction of the series of upper teeth; and a series of lower teeth extending along a length of the first support structure and defining a series of lower notches opening toward the second support structure for receiving an edge of a microelectronic substrate when supported by the first and second support structures, wherein the upper and lower notches of the first support structure are offset from each other by a first predetermined offset distance so that an edge of a generally planar microelectronic substrate can fit similarly within notches of the second support structure and the lower teeth of the first support structure but differently within the upper notches of the first support structure when supported between the first and second support structures. 2. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 1, wherein the second support structure comprises: a series of upper teeth defining a series of upper notches extending along a length of the second support structure, each of the upper notches opening toward the first support structure for receiving an edge of a microelectronic substrate when supported by the first and second support structures; and a series of lower teeth defining a series of lower notches extending along a length of the second support structure, each of the lower notches opening toward the first support structure for receiving an edge of a microelectronic substrate when supported byte first and second support structures. 3. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 2, wherein the upper and lower notches are offset from each other by a second predetermined offset distance so that an edge of a microelectronic substrate will fit differently within the upper and lower notches of the second support structure when supported between the first and second support structures. 4. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 2, wherein the upper and lower notches are aligned with each other. 5. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 4, wherein each of the lower notches of the second support structure is farther aligned with one of the lower notches of the first support structure. 6. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 4, wherein each of the upper notches of the second support structure is further aligned with one of the upper notches of the first support structure. 7. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 1, wherein to first support structure further comprises a single support bar. 8. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 7, wherein the second support structure further comprises a single support bar. 9. The microelectronic sub state handling device of claim 3, wherein the upper notches of the first support structure are offset from the lower notches of the first support structure in a first offset direction and upper notches of the second support structure are offset from the lower notches of the second support structure in a second offset direction, wherein the first offset direction is opposite from the second offset direction. 10. (Original) The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 1, wherein each of the notches of to upper series of notches is identical to each adjacent notch and each of the notches of the lower series of notches is identical to each adjacent notch. 11. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 3, wherein each of the notches of the upper series of notches of the second support structure is identical to each adjacent notch and each of the notches of the lower series of notches of the second support structure is identical to each adjacent notch. 12. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 1, wherein each of the notches of the series of upper notches has an upper notch angle measured in the direction of the length of the first support structure and each of the notches of the series of lower notches has a lower notch angle measured in the direction of the length of the first support structure, wherein the upper notch angle of each of the upper notches is different from the lower notch angle of each of the lower notches. 13. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 12, wherein the upper notch angle is smaller than the lower notch angle. 14. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 13, wherein the upper notch angle is shoot 30 degrees and the lower notch angle is about 60 degrees. 15. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 1, wherein the at least one microelectronic substrate is a set of semiconductor wafers, each having a major diameter, wherein the first and second support structures are spaced flout each other to operatively support the set of semiconductor wafers. 16. The microelectronic handling device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the series of upper teeth and the series of lower teeth comprises a series of teeth that are minimized in thickness to minimize fluid entrapment between the upper and lower teeth and the microelectronic substrate when supported between the first and second support structures, while providing sufficient structural support for the microelectronic substrate. 17. The microelectronic handling device of claim 16, wherein each of the teeth of the upper and lower series of teeth is less than about 10 mm thick. 18. The microelectronic handling device of claim 16, wherein each of the teeth of the upper and lower series of teeth is approximately 1 mm thick. 19. A handling system for immersion processing of a set of spaced microelectronic substrate, comprising: a substrate processing tank; an elevator for lowering, holding, and raising a set of spaced microelectronic substrates into and out of the tank, the elevator comprising a base plate, first and second substrate support bars extending from a first surface of the base plate, wherein the first support bar has an inner surface including a first series of notches that faces an inner surface including a second series of notches of the second support bar for positioning a set of spaced microelectronic substrates and wherein the inner surfaces of the first and second support bars are spaced from each other by a first distance; and an elevating mechanism for lowering, holding, and raising a set of microelectronic substrates to be held byte first and second substrate support bars into and out of to tank; and a transfer robot for transferring a set of microelectronic substrates to and from the tank, the transfer robot comprising a base plate, first and second substrate support structures extending from a first surface of the base plate, and a robot conveyance mechanism for moving the transfer robot from a first position for transfer of a set of microelectronic substrates to the elevator to a second position for transporting the substrates to another location, wherein the first and second support structures have inner and outer surfaces, the inner surfaces of the support structures facing each other and the outer surfaces of the support structures being spaced from each other by a second distance; wherein the first distance between the inner surfaces of the first and second support bars of the elevator is larger than the second distance between the outer surfaces of the first and second support structures of the transfer robot. 20. The handling system of claim 19, wherein the set of microelectronic substrates is a set of semiconductor wafers. 21. A method of immersion processing a set of spaced microelectronic substrates in a processing tank, comprising the steps of: vertically positioning an elevator above a processing tank and below a horizontally extending guide rail, the elevator comprising a base plate, and first and second substrate support bars extending from a first surface of the base plate for supporting and positioning a set of spaced microelectronic substrates; providing a set of substrates to a transfer robot, the robot comprising a base plate, and first and second substrate support structures extending from a first surface of the base plate, and wherein the set of substrates are positioned the first end second substrate support structures; moving the transfer robot along the guide rail until it is positioned above the processing tank and above the elevator; lifting the elevator along a guide track until the support bars of the elevator pass on the outside of the support structures of the transfer robot and contact the set of substrates; lifting the elevator further until the elevator is completely above the transfer robot, thereby transferring the set of substrates from the support structures of the transfer robot to the support bars of the elevator; moving the transfer robot along tho transfer robot guide rail until it not below any part of the elevator; conveying the elevator to position the set of substrates in the processing tank. 22. A microelectronic substrate handling device for immersion processing at least one microelectronic substrate, the device comprising a movable support member and first and second support structures extending from a surface of the support member and operatively spaced from each other to support at least one microelectronic substrate, the first support structure comprising: a series of upper teeth extending along a length of the first support structure and defining a series of upper notches having a notch angle measured in the direction of the length of the first support structure, said teeth of said series of upper teeth having substrate engaging surfaces angled with respect to the direction of extension of the teeth for engaging and urging substrates in a direction of the series of teeth; and a series of lower teeth extending along a length of the first support structure and defining a series of lower notches having a notch angle measured in the direction of the length of the first support structure, wherein the notch angle of the upper notches is different than the notch angle of the lower notches. 23. The microelectronic substrate handling device of claim 22, wherein the tooth angle of each of the upper teeth is smaller than the tooth angle of each of the lower teeth. 24. A system for immersion processing of a set of spaced microelectronic substrates, comprising: an immersion tank for substrate processing therein; an elevator for lowering, holding, and raising a set of spaced microelectronic substrates having a predetermined diameter into and out of the tank, the elevator comprising a base plate, first and second substrate support bars extending from a first surface of the base plate, wherein the first support bar has an inner surface including a first series of notches that faces an inner surface including a second series of notches of the second support bar for positioning a set of spaced microelectronic substrates and wherein the inner surfaces of the first and second support bars are spaced from each other by a first predetermined distance that is less than the diameter of the substrates to be supported, the first predetermined distance being such that the first and second support bars will engage the substrates of predetermined diameter within about ten degrees below a horizontal centerline of a substrate of the predetermined diameter when supported by the first and second support bars, and an elevating mechanism for lowering, holding, and raising a set of microelectronic substrates to be held by the first and second substrate support bars into and out of the tank. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the immersion tank comprises a megasonic processing tank. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the immersion tank comprises a processing and drying tank. 