The present invention provides a diffuser and a chamber for venting and/or pumping gas. The diffuser includes a body, a reflector, and a set of vanes. The body includes a nozzle through a center portion and has a curved surface on an upper side to define an open space above the curved surface. The nozzle is arranged to allow a gas to flow through and expand in the nozzle. The reflector is disposed over the nozzle and is arranged to reflect the gas from the nozzle into the open space in the body while expanding the gas flow. The vanes further divide the flow into roughly equal portions. In this configuration, the flow of the gas is slowed in the nozzle, the reflector portion, and the open space in the body between the vanes so that the gas flows out of the open space with substantially uniform low velocity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A diffuser, comprising: a body having a nozzle through a center portion, the body having a curved surface on an upper side to define an open space above the curved surface, wherein the nozzle is arranged to allow a gas to flow through and expand in the nozzle; a reflector disposed over the nozzle and being arranged to reflect the gas from the nozzle into the open space in the body while expanding the gas flow, wherein the nozzle, reflector, and the open space are configured to slow the flow of the gas such that the gas flows out of the open space with substantially uniform or other intended non-uniform low velocity; and a set of vanes disposed in the open space of the body for partitioning the open space into a set of expansion spaces such that the gas flows out of each expansion space in substantially equal amounts. 2. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, wherein the nozzle is formed integral with the body. 3. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, wherein the nozzle is formed separate from the body. 4. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, wherein the reflector is coaxially disposed over the nozzle. 5. The diffuser as recited in claim 4, wherein the set of arms is attached to the set of vanes for holding the set of vanes in place. 6. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, wherein the curved surface of the body is arranged to expand the open space radially such that the flow of the gas expands in the open space. 7. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a set of arms mounted on the upper side of the body for holding the reflector in place. 8. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, wherein the nozzle has an interior wall that is tapered to increase in diameter toward the reflector. 9. The diffuser as recited in claim 8, wherein the interior wall of the nozzle is tapered at an angle less than or equal to six degrees. 10. The diffuser as recited in claim 1, further comprising: an inlet coupled to the nozzle to flow the gas into the nozzle; and a flow restrictor disposed on the inlet to limit an input velocity of an input gas, wherein the flow restrictor decreases the input velocity of the gas. 11. The diffuser as recited in claim 10, wherein the flow restrictor is a disk having an orifice to allow passage of the input gas into the inlet. 12. The diffuser as recited in claim 11, further comprising: a valve coupled between the inlet and the flow restrictor, the valve being arranged to open to allow the passage of the input gas into the inlet when the diffuser is being used to diffuse the gas through the open space, wherein the valve is arranged to shut to prevent the passage of the input gas into the inlet when the diffuser is used to pump the gas from the diffuser. 13. A chamber for cycling gas in a semiconductor processing system, the chamber comprising: a set of enclosed walls; and a diffuser mounted on an aperture in an enclosed wall of the chamber, the diffuser including: a body having a nozzle through a center portion, the body having a curved surface on an upper side to define an open space above the curved surface, wherein the nozzle is arranged to allow a gas to flow through and expand through the nozzle; a reflector disposed over the nozzle and being arranged to reflect the gas from the nozzle into the open space in the body while expanding the gas flow, wherein the flow of the gas expands in the open space such that the gas flows out of the open space into the chamber with substantially uniform velocity that is lower than a velocity of the gas entering the nozzle; and a set of vanes disposed in the open space of the body for partitioning the open space into a set of expansion spaces such that the gas flows out of each expansion space in substantially equal amount into the chamber. 14. The chamber as recited in claim 13, wherein the nozzle is formed integral with the body. 15. The chamber as recited in claim 13, wherein the nozzle is formed separate from the body. 16. The chamber as recited in claim 13, the reflector is coaxially disposed over the nozzle. 17. The chamber as recited in claim 13, wherein the diffuser further comprises: a set of arms mounted on the upper side of the body for holding the reflector in place. 18. The chamber as recited in claim 17, wherein the set of arms is attached to the vanes for holding the vanes in place. 19. The chamber as recited in claim 17, wherein the nozzle has an interior wall that is tapered to increase in diameter toward the reflector. 20. The chamber as recited in claim 19, wherein the interior wall of the nozzle is tapered at an angle less than or equal to six degrees. 21. The chamber as recited in claim 13, wherein the diffuser further comprises: an inlet coupled to the nozzle to flow the gas into the nozzle; a flow restrictor disposed on the inlet to limit an input velocity of an input gas, wherein the flow restrictor decreases the input velocity of the input gas for output to the inlet. 22. The chamber as recited in claim 21, wherein the flow restrictor is a disk having an orifice to allow passage of the input gas into the inlet. 23. The chamber as recited in claim 21, wherein the diffuser further comprises: a valve coupled between the inlet and the flow restrictor, the valve being arranged to open to allow the passage of the input gas into the inlet when the diffuser is being used to diffuse the gas through the open space, wherein the valve is arranged to shut to prevent the passage of the input gas into the inlet when the diffuser is used to pump the gas from the diffuser. 24. The chamber as recited in claim 13, wherein the enclosed wall on which the diffuser is mounted is a floor of the chamber. 25. The chamber as recited in claim 13, wherein the enclosed wall on which the diffuser is mounted is a ceiling of the chamber. 26. A device for venting gas, comprising: a body having a nozzle through a center portion, the body having a curved surface on an upper side to define an expansion space above the curved surface for expanding gas flow, wherein the nozzle is arranged to allow a gas to flow through and expand through the nozzle; a reflector disposed over the nozzle and being arranged to reflect the gas from the nozzle into the expansion space in the body while expanding the gas flow, wherein the flow of the gas expands in the expansion space such that the gas flows out of the expansion space with substantially uniform velocity that is lower than a velocity of the gas from the nozzle when venting the gas; an inlet coupled to the nozzle to flow the gas into the nozzle; and a flow restrictor disposed on the inlet to limit an input velocity of an input gas, wherein the flow restrictor decreases the input velocity of the input gas for output to the inlet. 27. The device as recited in claim 26, wherein the nozzle is formed integral with the body. 28. The device as recited in claim 26, wherein the nozzle is formed separate from the body. 29. The device as recited in claim 26, wherein the reflector is coaxially disposed over the nozzle. 30. The device as recited in claim 26, wherein the curved surface of the body is arranged to expand the expansion space radially such that the flow of the gas expands in the expansion space. 31. The device as recited in claim 26, further comprising: a set of vanes disposed in the expansion space of the body for partitioning the expansion space into a set of expansion spaces such that the gas flows out of each expansion space in substantially equal amount. 32. The device as recited in claim 26, further comprising: a set of arms mounted on the upper side of the body for holding the reflector in place. 33. The device as recited in claim 32, wherein the set of arms is attached to the vanes for holding the vanes in place. 34. The device as recited in claim 33, further comprising: a valve coupled between the inlet and the flow restrictor, the valve being arranged to open to allow the passage of the input gas into the inlet when the diffuser is being used to diffuse the gas through the expansion space, wherein the valve is arranged to shut to prevent the passage of the input gas into the inlet when the diffuser is used to pump the gas from the diffuser. 35. The device as recited in claim 26, wherein the nozzle has an interior wall that is tapered to increase in diameter toward the reflector. 36. The device as recited in claim 35, wherein the interior wall of the nozzle is tapered at an angle less than or equal to six degrees. 37. The device as recited in claim 26, the flow restrictor is a disk having an orifice to allow passage of the input gas into the inlet. 