A method is disclosed which provides a high throughput method for assigning plausible functions to unknown sequence entries in a particular database. The method was used herein to identify lectin proteins which can be found in specific tissues of the rice plant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of ascribing a function to a protein, said method comprising: applying a composition comprising at least one protein to a functional affinity column comprising a ligand, wherein binding of a protein to said ligand is indicative of a function of said bound protein wherein the ligand is a carbohydrate that binds lectins in rice; eluting said bound protein from said functional affinity column; preparing said eluted protein for mass spectrometry; analyzing at least a portion of said eluted protein by mass spectrometry thereby producing spectral information; identifying said eluted protein by matching said spectral information with a theoretical mass spectrum of a protein having a known sequence; and ascribing a function to said identified protein based on the functional affinity chromatographic behavior of said identified protein. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing said eluted protein for mass spectrometry comprises subjecting said eluted protein to proteolysis and one or more dimensional chromatography. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said one or more dimensional chromatography is performed using a high performance liquid chromatography column comprising a strong anion exchange resin followed by a reverse phase resin. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said composition is a protein extract. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said protein extract is from a tissue or cell. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein said protein extract is fractionated prior to application to said functional affinity column. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said carbohydrate is N-acetyl-D-glucosamine or N-acetyl-D-galactosamine. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said bound protein is eluted from said functional affinity column in a single step. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said bound protein is eluted from said functional affinity column using a stepwise or continuous gradient. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said mass spectrometry is tandem mass spectrometry. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of said protein having a known sequence is present in a database. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said protein having a known sequence has an unidentified function. 