Thin film culture devices are described that have positioning structures, as well as methods for harvesting cells from colonies on the culture device based on location of colonies on the device relative to the positioning structures. In addition, a computer readable medium encoded with a computer program is described that identifies position of colonies relative to the positioning structures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A culture device for the propagation or storage of microorganisms, said device comprising a self-supporting, waterproof substrate and a cover sheet, wherein a gelling agent is contained on said self-supporting substrate, and wherein said self-supporting substrate and said cover sheet comprise positioning structures constructed so as to cooperate with a receiving structure. 2. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said positioning structures are holes, slits, slots, beveled edges, notches, or raised structures. 3. The culture device of claim 1, said culture device further comprising a barcode label on a surface of said culture device. 4. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said cover sheet is transparent. 5. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said self-supporting substrate further comprises a spacer. 6. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said self-supporting substrate further comprises a culture medium. 7. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said cover sheet further comprises a gelling agent. 8. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said cover sheet further comprises a reinforcement layer. 9. The culture device of claim 8, wherein said reinforcement layer is selected from the group consisting of a foam, a film, or a non-woven material. 10. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said device further comprises an indicator and a corresponding inducer. 11. The culture device of claim 1, wherein said device further comprises two chromogenic indicators providing different colors for differentiating microorganisms. 12. A culture device for the propagation or storage of microorganisms comprising first and second layers, said first and second layers comprising a gelling agent, said first and second layers further comprising positioning structures constructed so as to cooperate with a receiving structure, and wherein said first and second layers are separable from each other. 