An optical pressure sensor useable in robotic applications. The optical pressure sensor can be included in a robotic grasping device. The pressure sensor includes a sensor structure having an interior wall and indicia. The indicia, apparent by viewing the interior wall, appearance change in response to pressure on the structure. An image sensor is positioned to view at least a portion of the interior wall, wherein the image sensor is configured to provide images of the indicia as the sensor structure is subject to pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic grasping device pressure sensor, comprising: a structure, at least a portion of which is transparent; a base material overlaying at least a portion of the transparent portion of the structure; compressible protrusions extending from the base material to the structure, wherein the protrusions compress in response to pressure exerted on the base material; and an optical image sensor positioned to view at least a portion of the compressible protrusions from within the structure, wherein the optical image sensor is configured to capture images of the compressible protrusions as they compress, and to provide image information to a processor that extracts pressure information from the images. 2. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the robotic grasping device is a robot finger. 3. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the structure is tube shaped. 4. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the protrusions are pyramid shaped. 5. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the protrusions are formed from foam. 6. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, further comprising a light source positioned to illuminate the protrusions. 7. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the protrusions are attached to the base material. 8. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the protrusions are formed from the base material. 9. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein a first portion of the protrusions have a different degree of compressibility than a second portion of the protrusions. 10. The robotic grasping device pressure sensor as defined in claim 1, wherein the protrusions are a first color and the base material is a second color. 11. A robot grasping device, comprising: a first grasping structure, including: a sensor structure having an interior wall; indicia, apparent by viewing the interior wall, whose appearance change in response to pressure; an image sensor positioned to view at least a portion of the interior wall, wherein the image sensor is configured to provide images of the indicia as at least a portion of the sensor structure is subject to pressure; and a second grasping structure positioned to grasp an object in cooperation with the first grasping structure. 12. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, wherein the sensor structure is deformable. 13. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, wherein the indicia are deformable protrusions. 14. The robot grasping device sensor as defined in claim 11, wherein the sensor structure is deformable and the indicia are markings. 15. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, wherein the indicia are formed by light passing through cholesteric liquid crystals. 16. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, wherein the image sensor includes an analog image acquisition circuit and a digitizer circuit. 17. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, wherein the structure is tube shaped. 18. The method as defined in claim 17, wherein the robot pressure sensor further comprises: a structure, at least a portion of which is transparent; a base material overlaying at least a portion of the transparent portion of the structure, wherein the indicia are deformable protrusions extending from the base material to the structure, and wherein the protrusions are deformable in response to pressure exerted on the base material; and an image sensor positioned to view at least a portion of the deformable protrusions. 19. The method as defined in claim 17, wherein the robot pressure sensor further comprises: a deformable structure having the indicia thereon, wherein the indicia move in response to force exerted on the deformable structure; and an image sensor positioned to view at least a portion of the pressure indicia. 20. The method as defined in claim 17, wherein the indicia are formed by light passing through cholesteric liquid crystals. 21. The method as defined in claim 17, further comprising determining a location of the pressure. 22. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, wherein the image sensor provides pressure contour information. 23. The robot grasping device as defined in claim 11, further comprising a fish eye lens positioned in front of the image sensor. 24. A method of determining the pressure on a robot pressure sensor, the method comprising: obtaining image data of pressure indicia on the robot pressure sensor; comparing the image data with reference image data; and determining a degree of pressure based at least in part on the comparison. 25. An apparatus for measuring pressure on a robot component, comprising: a polarized light source; a structure having a mirrored surface positioned to receive light from the polarized light source; and an image sensor having a polarized filter, the image sensor positioned to view the mirrored surface, wherein pressure patterns within the structure are rendered visible under optical polarization. 