A coating apparatus includes a first dynamic mixing system having a plurality of first coating components that are substantially free of effect pigments and a second dynamic mixing system having a plurality of second coating components having effect pigments. A first directional control device is connected to the first and second dynamic mixing systems. A plurality of reservoirs are connected to the first directional control device. A second directional control device is connected to the reservoirs. A plurality of applicators are connected to the second directional control device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coating system, comprising: a coating station; a conveyor configured to move a substrate to be coated through said coating station; at least one coating device located at said coating station; a turntable located at said coating station; and a source of coating material connected to said coating device, wherein said coating material source includes a first dynamic mixing system including a plurality of first coating materials substantially free of effect pigment and a second dynamic mixing system comprising a plurality of second coating materials containing effect pigment. 2. The coating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said coating device includes a robot movably mounted on a track. 3. The coating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said coating device includes at least one bell applicator. 4. The coating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said turntable is rotatable and tiltable. 5. The coating system as claimed in claim 1, including a dehydration station located downstream of said coating station. 6. A coating system, comprising: a coating station; a conveyor configured to move a substrate to be coated through said coating station; at least one coating device located at said coating station; a turntable located at said coating station; a dehydration station located downstream of said coating station; and a second turntable located at said dehydration station. 7. A coating system, comprising: a coating station; a conveyor configured to move a substrate to be coated through said coating station; at least one coating device located at said coating station; a turntable located at said coating station; a dehydration station located downstream of said coating station; and a second coating station downstream of said dehydration station. 8. The coating system as claimed in claim 7, including a second coating device located at said second coating station. 9. The coating system as claimed in claim 7, including a third turntable located at said second coating station. 10. The coating system as claimed in claim 8, including a source of clearcoat material connected to said second coating device. 11. The coating system as claim in claim 7, including a drying station located downstream of said second coating station. 12. The coating system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first coating materials are of differing color. 13. A coating system, comprising: a coating station; a conveyor configured to move a substrate to be coated through said coating station; at least one coating device located at said coating station; a turntable located at said coating station; and a source of coating material connected to said coating device, wherein said coating material source includes: a first dynamic mixing system comprising a plurality of first coating materials of differing color; a plurality of reservoirs connectable with said first coating materials; and a plurality of applicators selectively connectable with said reservoirs. 14. The coating system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said first coating materials are substantially free of effect pigments. 15. The coating system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said source further includes a plurality of second coating materials comprising effect pigments, said second coating materials selectively connectable with said reservoirs. 16. A coating system, comprising: a first coating station including at least one coating device having at least one movably mounted applicator; a turntable movably mounted at said first coating station; a dehydration station located downstream of said first coating station; a second coating station located downstream of said dehydration station and including at least one movably mounted applicator and another movable turntable; and a drying station located downstream of said second coating station. 17. A coating apparatus, comprising: a first dynamic mixing system comprising a plurality of first coating components of differing color; at least one reservoir in flow communication with said first dynamic mixing system; and at least one applicator in flow communication with said at least one reservoir. 18. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said first coating components are waterborne coating components. 19. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said first coating components are substantially free of effect pigment. 20. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, further comprising a second dynamic mixing system in flow communication with said at least one applicator and comprising a plurality of second components comprising at least one effect pigment. 21. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein said effect pigment is selected from the group consisting of metal flakes and mica. 22. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, comprising a plurality of reservoirs selectively connectable with said first coating components. 23. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 20, including a first directional control valve in flow communication with said first and second dynamic mixing systems and said reservoirs. 24. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 23, including a second directional control valve in flow communication with said reservoirs and a plurality of applicators. 25. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said applicator is a bell applicator. 26. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, including a conveyor configured to transport a substrate to be coated adjacent said at least one applicator. 27. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said conveyor includes a rotatable support for supporting a substrate. 28. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said rotatable support is tiltable. 29. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said at least one applicator is mounted on a movable arm. 30. A coating apparatus, comprising: a first dynamic mixing system comprising a plurality of first coating components that are substantially free of effect pigments; a second dynamic mixing system comprising a plurality of second coating components comprising effect pigments; a first directional control device connected to said first and second dynamic mixing systems; a plurality of reservoirs connected to said first directional control device; a second directional control device connected to said reservoirs; and a plurality of applicators connected to said second directional control device. 31. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 30, including a movable support located adjacent said applicators. 32. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 31, wherein said support includes a rotatable and tiltable turntable. 33. The coating apparatus as claimed in claim 30, including a cleaning tank and a waste tank connected to said reservoirs. 