A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for process control, comprising A. a network, B. a server digital data processor coupled to the network and to a process control apparatus, the server digital data processor including a command processor for transferring information between the network and the process control apparatus, said process control apparatus comprising control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, the command processor providing services for access to information regarding the process control apparatus, those services including at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the process control apparatus, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object, C. a client digital data processor coupled to the network, the client digital data processor comprising an information client for establishing communications with the server digital data processor over the network, generating and transmitting to the server digital data processor a request for an applet, receiving an applet from the server, and defining a virtual machine environment for execution thereof, D. the client digital data processor executing the applet within the virtual machine environment, the applet configuring the client digital data processor as a process controller for establishing communications over the network with the command processor and for at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus via those communications, the process controller generating and transmitting, over the network, requests for services provided by the command processor in order to at least one of monitor the process control apparatus and control the process control apparatus. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the client digital data processor and the server digital data processor are located remotely with respect to one another. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein the server digital data processor selectively transfers the applet over the network to the client digital data processor for execution within the virtual environment defined thereby. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein A. the process controller transfers commands over the network to the command processor for effecting a transfer of information regarding a status of the process control apparatus, and B. the command processor responds to such commands for generating information on the status of the process control apparatus for transferring that information to the process controller over the network. 5. A system according to claim 4, wherein the command processor responds to changes in the status of the process control apparatus and transferring information with respect thereto to the process controller over the network. 6. A system according to claims 4 or 5, wherein the process controller responds to status information received from the command processor for generating a display representative thereof. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein A. the server digital data processor comprises an information server, and B. the information client establishes communications with the information server over the network. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein the information server selectively transfers the applet over the network to the information client for execution wit the virtual environment defined thereby. 9. A system according to claim 8, wherein A. the information server transfers hypertext markup language (HTML) information referencing the applet over the network to the information client, B. the information client generates a display based on the HTML information transferred from the information server, and C. the information client responds to a user command in response to such display for selectively transferring to the information server over the network a request for the applet. 10. A system according to claim 1, wherein the network comprises at least one of an Intranet and Internet. 11. A system according to claim 1, wherein the applet comprises at least one of JAVA bytecode and an intermediate code for interpretation within the virtual machine environment that is hardware-independent, operating system-independent and windows system-independent. 12. A system according to claim 1, wherein the command processor comprises A. a JAVA application executing on the server digital data processor for transferring information at least one of to and from the network, B. a non-JAVA application program interface (API) for transferring information at least one of to and from the process control apparatus, and C. a JAVA/API application for transferring information between the JAVA application and the API. 13. A system according to claim 4, wherein the command processor responds to changes in the status of the process control apparatus and transferring information with respect thereto to the process controller over the network. 14. A system for process control, comprising A. a network, B. a server digital data processor coupled to the network and to a process control apparatus, said process control apparatus comprising control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, the server digital data processor including a command processor for providing services for access to information regarding the process control apparatus, those services including at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the process control apparatus, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object, C. a client digital data processor comprising an information client that establishes communications with the server digital data processor over the network, generates and transmits to the server digital data processor a request for an applet, and defines a virtual machine environment for execution of an applet received from the server digital data processor, D. the client digital data processor executing the applet within the virtual machine environment, the applet configuring the client digital data processor as a process controller for establishing communications over the network with the command processor and for generating requests for services provided by the command processor in order to at least one of monitoring and controlling the process control apparatus. 15. A system according to claim 14, wherein the client digital data processor and the server digital data processor are located remotely with respect to one another. 16. A system according to claim 14, wherein the server digital data processor selectively transfers the applet over the network to the client digital data processor for execution within the virtual environment defined thereby. 17. A system according to claim 14, wherein A. the process controller transfers requests over the network to the command processor for effecting a transfer of information regarding a status of the process control apparatus, and B. the command processor includes responds to such requests for generating information on the status of the process control apparatus for transferring that information to the process controller over the network. 18. A system according to claim 14, wherein A. the server digital data processor comprises an information server, and B. the information client establishes communications with the information server over the network. 19. A system according to claim 14, wherein the network comprises at least one of an Intranet and Internet. 20. A system according to claim 14, wherein the applet comprises at least one of JAVA bytecode aid an intermediate code for interpretation within the virtual machine environment that is hardwere-independent, operating system-independent and windows system-independent. 21. A system according to claim 14, wherein the command processor comprises A. a JAVA application executing on the server digital data processor for transferring information at least one of to and from the network, B. a non-JAVA application program interface (API) for transferring information at least one of to and from the process control apparatus, and C. a JAVA/API application for transferring information between the JAVA application and the API. 