Apparatus and methods are disclosed for use within an image-guided surgical navigation system for facilitating the combined positioning and orientation of multiple surgical implements. A tool guide having multiple cannulas is tracked by a surgical navigation system in real time. Position data of the tool guide is registered and combined with pre-acquired images by the navigation computer. Concurrent graphical representations of the plurality of cannulas are superimposed over the images and displayed. The display allows the surgeon to place the tool guide into the patient's body and position and orient the plurality of cannulas which are then used to place each of the implements.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for use in delivering at least one implement to a patient in image guided surgery, comprising: an instrument location system for detecting position, the instrument location system including a computer processor; a tool guide comprising: a plurality of cannulas, each cannula having a proximal end operable to receive an implement and a distal end operable to deliver the implement to the patient, and at least one trackable marker provided on the tool guide for detection by the instrument location system; and a memory coupled to the computer processor, storing: at least one pre-acquired image of [a] the patient, the at least one pre-acquired image having an image space, and instructions, to be executed by the computer processor, to align the image space to a detector space, to track a three-dimensional position of the tool guide in the detector space, and to compute a projection of the tool guide into the at least one pre-acquired image. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one trackable marker is provided on a frame attached to the tool guide for detection by the instrument location system. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: a central structure coupled to the plurality of cannulas and to the frame; and a handle coupled to the central structure, wherein the handle is used for manually manipulating the tool guide. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the central structure is removably coupled to the frame. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one trackable marker is associated with the plurality of cannulas. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: a handle coupled to the tool guide, wherein the handle is used for manually manipulating the tool guide. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a display operably connected to the computer processor; and additional instructions stored in the memory, to be executed by the computer processor, to display the at least one pre-acquired image, and to superimpose a first set of symbols on the at least one pre-acquired image, the first set of symbols representing current positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first set of symbols are a plurality of directional indicators, each of the indicators illustrating one of the plurality of cannulas. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: additional instructions stored in the memory, to be executed by the computer processor, to compute a predicted path of the plurality of cannulas based on their current location and orientation, and to superimpose a second set of symbols on the at least one pre-acquired image, the second set of symbols representing predicted positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: additional instructions stored in the memory, to be executed by the computer processor, to superimpose a third set of symbols representing at least one surgical implement. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the second set of symbols are a plurality of directional indicators having at least one of a color, style, shape, size and texture differing from that of the first set of symbols for differentiating the predicted positions from the current positions. 12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the at least one pre-acquired image includes a plurality of images taken from different orientations and displayed on the display. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the different orientations are generally orthogonal. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of cannulas is individually adjustable in at least one of length and angular position. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of cannulas is individually adjustable in at least one of inner diameter and outer diameter. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an interchangeable fixture coupled to the plurality of cannulas, wherein the interchangeable fixture is used for accommodating at least one of: a variable number of cannulas, cannulas having a plurality of relative placements, and cannulas having a plurality of fixed relative angles. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a reference frame attachable to the patient, the reference frame having at least one trackable marker for detection by the instrument location system. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one pre-acquired image is generated using a C-arm fluoroscope. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one pre-acquired image is generated using an imager which produces three-dimensional volumetric data, the imager including one of a computer aided tomography system, a magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, and an ultrasound imaging system. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a functional imaging system including one of a functional magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, a single photon emission tomography system, and a magnetoencephalography system. 21. A method for guiding one implement to a patient in image guided surgery, comprising: providing at least one pre-acquired image of [a] the patient, the at least one pre-acquired image having an image space; aligning the image space and a detector space; tracking a three-dimensional position of a tool guide in the detector space, using at least one trackable marker provided on the tool guide, wherein the tool guide includes a plurality of cannulas, each cannula having a proximal end operable to receive an implement and a distal end operable to deliver the implement to the patient; relating positions of the plurality of cannulas with the at least one pre-acquired image; and guiding the at least one implement to a target site in the patient. 22. The method of claim further comprising: computing a projection of at least one of the plurality of cannulas into the at least one pre-acquired image; displaying the at least one pre-acquired image on a display; and superimposing a representation of the projection on the at least one displayed pre-acquired image. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the representation includes a first set of directional indicators which represent current positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient. 24. The method of claims 23, further comprising: computing a predicted path for the plurality of cannulas based on their current location and orientation; and superimposing a second set of directional indicators on the at least one pre-acquired image, the second set of directional indicators representing predicted positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the second set of directional indicators have at least one of a color, style, shape, size, and texture differing from that of the first set of directional indicators for differentiating the predicted positions from the current positions. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein at least two different pre-acquired images taken from different orientations are displayed on the display. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the orientations are substantially mutually perpendicular. 28. The method of claim 21, further comprising: generating the at least one pre-acquired image using a C-arm fluoroscope. 29. The method of claim 21, further comprising: generating the at least one pre-acquired image using a three-dimensional volumetric imager, wherein the volumetric imager includes one of a computer aided tomography system, a magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, and an ultrasound imaging system. 30. The method of claim 21, further comprising: generating the at least one pre-acquired image using a functional imaging system, wherein the functional imaging system includes one of a functional magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, single photon emission tomography system, and a magnetoencephalography system. 31. The method of claim 21, wherein at least one of the plurality of cannulas is independently adjustable in at least one of length and angular position. 32. A system for use in delivering at least one implement to a patient in image guided surgery, comprising: means for providing at least one pre-acquired image of the patient, the at least one pre-acquired image having an image space; means for aligning the image space and a detector space; means for tracking a three-dimensional position of a tool guide in the detector space, using at least one trackable marker provided on the tool guide, wherein the tool guide includes a plurality of cannulas, each cannula having a proximal end operable to receive an implement and a distal end operable to deliver the implement to the patient; and means for relating positions of the plurality of cannulas with the at least one pre-acquired image. 33. The system of claim 32, further comprising: means for computing a projection of at least one of the plurality of cannulas into the at least one pre-acquired image; display means for displaying the at least one pre-acquired image; and means for superimposing a representation of the projection on the at least one displayed pre-acquired image. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the representation includes a first set of directional indicators which represent current positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient. 35. The system of claim 34, further comprising: means for computing a predicted path of the plurality of cannulas based on their current location and orientation; and means for superimposing a second set of directional indicators on the at least one pre-acquired image, the second set of directional indicators representing predicted positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the second set of directional indicators have at least one of a color, style, shape, size, and texture differing from that of the first set of directional indicators for differentiating the predicted positions from the current positions. 37. The system of claim 33, wherein at least two different pre-acquired images taken from different orientations are displayed on the display. 38. The system of claim 37, wherein the orientations are substantially mutually perpendicular. 39. The system of claim 32, further comprising: C-arm fluoroscope means for generating the pre-acquired images. 40. The system of claim 32, further comprising: means for generating the at least one pre-acquired image using three-dimensional volumetric imaging means, wherein the three-dimensional volumetric imaging means includes one of computer aided tomography means, magnetic resonance imaging means, positron emission tomography means, and ultrasound imaging means. 41. The system of claim 32, further comprising: means for generating the at least one pre-acquired image using functional imaging means, wherein the functional imaging means includes one of functional magnetic resonance imaging means, positron emission tomography means, single photon emission tomography means, and magnetoencephalography means. 42. The system of claim 32, further comprising: means for independently adjusting the length of at least one of the plurality of cannulas. 43. The system of claim 32, further comprising: means for independently adjusting at least one angular position of at least one of the plurality of cannulas. 44. An apparatus for use in image guided surgery, comprising: an instrument location system for detecting position, the instrument location system including a computer processor; a reference frame attachable to a patient, the reference frame having at least one reference frame trackable marker for detection by the instrument location system; a tool guide comprising: a plurality of cannulas coupled to a fixture, wherein at least one of the plurality of cannulas is individually adjustable in at least one of length, angular position, inner diameter, and outer diameter; at least one trackable marker provided on the tool guide associated with the plurality of cannulas; a plurality of surgical implement receivers provided on the fixture, for receiving surgical implements, at least one of the plurality of receivers being substantially coaxially aligned with a respective one of the plurality of cannulas, and a handle for manipulating the tool guide; a display operably connected to the computer processor; and a memory coupled to the computer processor, storing: at least one pre-acquired image of a patient, the at least one pre-acquired image having an associated image space, and instructions that, when executed by the computer processor, align the image space to a detector space, track a three-dimensional position of the tool guide in the detector space, compute a projection of at least one of the plurality of cannulas into the at least one pre-acquired image, display the at least one of pre-acquired image, superimpose a first set of directional indicators on the at least one pre-acquired image, wherein the directional indicators represent current positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient, compute a predicted path of each of the plurality of cannulas based on their current location and orientation, and superimpose a second set of directional indicators on the at least one pre-acquired image, the second set of directional indicators representing predicted positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient, the second set of directional indicators having at least one of a color, style, shape, size, and texture differing from that of the first set of directional indicators for differentiating the predicted positions from the current positions. 45. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising: a frame associated with the plurality of cannulas, wherein the at least one trackable marker is provided on the frame for detection by the instrument location system. 46. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising the at least one trackable marker associated with the plurality of cannulas. 47. The apparatus in claim 44, wherein the at least one pre-acquired image is generated using a C-arm fluoroscope. 48. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the at least one pre-acquired image is generated using an imager which produces three-dimensional volumetric data, the imager including one of a computer aided tomography system, a magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, and an ultrasound imaging system. 49. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising: a functional imaging system including one of a functional magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, single photon emission tomography system, and a magnetoencephalography system. 50. The apparatus of claim 44, wherein the fixture can accommodate at least one of: a variable number of cannulas, cannulas having a plurality of a relative placements, and cannulas having a plurality of fixed relative angles. 51. A method for placing implements into a patient during an image guided medical procedure, comprising: providing at least one pre-acquired image of a patient, the at least one pre-acquired image having an image space; aligning the image space and a detector space; tracking a three-dimensional position of a tool guide in the detector space, using at least one trackable marker provided on the tool guide, wherein the tool guide includes a plurality of cannulas; computing a projection of at least one of the plurality of cannulas into the at least one pre-acquired image; computing a predicted path of each of the plurality of cannulas based on their current location and orientation; displaying the at least one pre-acquired image on a display; superimposing on the at least one pre-acquired image a first set of directional indicators representing current positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient; superimposing on the at least one pre-acquired image a second set of directional indicators, the second set of directional indicators representing predicted positions of the plurality of cannulas with respect to the patient; superimposing on the at least one pre-acquired image a third set of indicators, the third set of indicators representing implant structures, including at least one of a prosthetic device, plates, and fasteners; placing the plurality of cannulas at a location in a patient's body; orienting the plurality of cannulas; and utilizing the plurality of cannulas to place implements in the patient at the location. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the second set of directional indicators have at least one of a color, style, shape, size and texture differing from that of the first set of directional indicators for differentiating the predicted positions from the current positions. 53. The method of claim 51, wherein the at least one pre-acquired image is generating using a C-arm fluoroscope. 54. The method of claim 51, further comprising: generating the at least one pre-acquired image using a three-dimensional volumetric imager, wherein the volumetric imager includes one of a computer aided tomography system, a magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, and an ultrasound imaging system. 55. The method of claim 51, further comprising: generating the at least one pre-acquired image using a functional imaging system including one of a functional magnetic resonance imaging system, a positron emission tomography system, single photon emission tomography system, and a magnetoencephalography system. 