Apparatus for placement of an optical component on a substrate. The apparatus includes a machine vision system for locating the optical component on the substrate, a contact determiner for determining contact therebetween, and a robot for contacting the optical component and the substrate with one another, and for moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another under guidance from the machine vision system toward a desired position, wherein the optical component and the substrate contact one another for a portion of the movement. A method includes contacting the optical component with the substrate, locating the optical component on the substrate, and moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another toward a desired position of the optical component on the substrate, wherein the optical component and the substrate contact one another for a portion of the moving.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for precision placement of an optical component on a substrate and precision assembly thereof into a fiber optic telecommunication package, said apparatus comprising: a machine vision system for locating the optical component relative to a fiducial point on the substrate; contact determiner means for determining contact of the optical component and the substrate with one another; and a robot configured for contacting the optical component and the substrate with one another under guidance from said contact determiner means, said robot being further configured for moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another under guidance from said machine vision system toward a desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate; wherein the optical component and the substrate contact one another for at least a portion of the movement of the optical component and the substrate toward the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said machine vision system locates the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate prior to moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another by said robot. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said machine vision system and said robot are configured for performing at least two iterations of locating the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate and moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another, respectively. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said contact determiner means comprise a sensor. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said sensor detects pressure between the optical component and the substrate. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said contact determiner means comprise an auxiliary machine vision system. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said auxiliary machine vision system analyzes a profile view between the optical component and the substrate. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said contact determiner means comprise a pre-programmed geometry of the optical component relative to the substrate. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said robot further comprises an arm having a first end for selectively moving the optical component, and further wherein the first end of said arm corresponds to said pre-programmed geometry of the optical component relative to the substrate. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising attachment means for attaching the optical component and the substrate together with one another at the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate. 11. A method for precision placement of an optical component on a substrate and precision assembly thereof into a telecommunication package, said method comprising: providing apparatus for precision placement of the optical component on the substrate and precision assembly thereof into a fiber optic telecommunication package, said apparatus comprising: a machine vision system for locating the optical component relative to a fiducial point on the substrate; contact determiner means for determining contact of the optical component and the substrate with one another; and a robot configured for contacting the optical component and the substrate with one another under guidance from said contact determiner means, and said robot being further configured for moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another under guidance from said machine vision system toward a desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate; wherein the optical component and the substrate contact one another for at least a portion of the movement of the optical component and the substrate toward the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate; determiner means; determining contact of the optical component and the substrate with one another; locating the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate with said robot under guidance from said machine vision system; and moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another with said robot under guidance from said machine vision system toward the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate; wherein the optical component and the substrate contact one another for at least a portion of the step of moving the optical component and the substrate toward the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate. 12. A method according to claim 11 further comprising the step of attaching the optical component and the substrate together at the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate. 13. A method for precision placement of an optical component on a substrate and precision assembly thereof into a telecommunication package, said method comprising: contacting the optical component and the substrate with one another; locating the optical component relative to a fiducial point on the substrate; and moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another toward a desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate; wherein the optical component and the substrate contact one another for at least a portion of the step of moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another toward the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate; and wherein the steps of locating the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate and moving the optical component and the substrate relative to one another toward the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate are repeated in at least one repositioning iteration so as to more precisely reposition the optical component and the substrate with each repositioning iteration. 14. A method according to claim 13 further comprising the step of attaching the optical component and the substrate together at the desired position of the optical component relative to the fiducial point on the substrate. 