A process for applying weld overlay material to a tube with a single pass of a weld head. A gas tungsten arc welding process with high frequency wave pulse current is preferably used to apply the overlay material. The overlay material is preferably in the form of weld wire and is pre-heated and mechanically fed into the resultant weld pool on the tube. The wire is preferably resistance-heated to a temperature lower than its melting point prior to contact of the wire with the molten weld pool, and the weld pool is preferably oscillated during the overlay process. Use of the gas tungsten arc welding process provides sufficient weld fusion to allow the overlaid tube to be subsequently bent and formed, and use of the high frequency wave pulse current provides for reduced dilution of the overlay.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to melt said preheated overlay material by applying a high frequency wave pulse current to the tube; and using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to apply a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube. 2. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the bead of melted overlay material has dilution of less than twenty percent. 3. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising rotating the tube between four and seven rotations per minute as the bead of melted overlay material is applied thereto. 4. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of applying the overlay material to the tube includes using a robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head, and further comprising moving said robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head along substantially the length of the tube as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 5. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of applying the overlay material to the tube includes using a robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head, and further comprising moving said robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head on a track along substantially the length of the tube as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 6. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising forming a weld pool on the tube where said bead of overlay material is applied to the tube and oscillating, said weld pool as said overlay material is applied to the tube. 7. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said applying of the overlay material to the tube is performed using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head angled between twenty and thirty degrees with respect to the tube. 8. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said melting of said preheated overlay material and said applying of said bead of melted overlay material to the tube is performed substantially simultaneously using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head and during a single pass of said weld head with respect to the tube. 9. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising controlling the height of said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head with respect to the tube using an automatic arc voltage control. 10. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of applying the overlay material to the tube includes using said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head with a voltage of between eight and twelve volts. 11. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of applying the overlay material to the tube includes using a said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head with amperage of between two hundred and four hundred amperes. 12. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of applying the overlay material to the tube includes using said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating said high frequency wave pulse current at a wave pulse frequency of between three hundred and six hundred Hertz. 13. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of preheating the overlay material is performed using resistance heating. 14. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of preheating the overlay material is performed using an electric preheating holder with a voltage of between six and eight volts. 15. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of preheating the overlay material is performed using an electric preheating holder with an amperage of between seventy-five and eighty amperes. 16. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of preheating the overlay material is performed using an electric preheating holder having a frequency of between thirty and eighty Hertz. 17. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of preheating the overlay material is performed using an electric preheating holder positioned between thirty and sixty degrees with respect to the tube. 18. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of preheating the overlay material is performed using an electric preheating holder positioned between twenty and thirty-five degrees with respect to the tube. 19. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising shielding the overlay material with an inert gas mixture of Argon and Helium as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 20. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising shielding the overlay material with an inert gas mixture of Argon and Hydrogen as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 21. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising shielding the overlay material with an inert gas mixture of approximately 95% Argon and approximately 5% Hydrogen as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 22. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising shielding the overlay material with an inert gas mixture of Argon and Hydrogen delivered at the rate of between thirty-five and forty cubic feet per hour as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 23. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising shielding the overlay material with an inert gas at the rate of between thirty-five and forty cubic feet per hour as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 24. The process as defined in claim 1, further comprising shielding the overlay material with an inert gas mixture of approximately 25% Argon and approximately 75% Helium as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 25. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; providing a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating a high frequency wave pulse current; melting the overlay material with said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head by applying said wave pulse current to the tube; and applying a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube using said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head. 26. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; providing a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating a high frequency wave pulse current; melting said preheated overlay material with said high frequency wave pulse weld head by applying a wave pulse current to the tube having a frequency of between three hundred and six hundred Hertz; applying a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with said high frequency wave pulse weld head; and moving said high frequency wave pulse weld head along the tube as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 27. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: providing a robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating a high frequency wave pulse current; melting the overlay material with said weld head by applying a wave pulse current to the tube having a frequency of between three hundred and six hundred Hertz; applying a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with dilution of less than twenty percent using said weld head; forming a weld pool on the tube where said bead of melted overlay material is applied to the tube; oscillating said weld pool as said overlay material is applied to the tube; and moving said weld head along the tube as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 28. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; providing a robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating a high frequency wave pulse current; melting said preheated overlay material with said weld head by applying a wave pulse current to the tube having a frequency of between three hundred and six hundred Hertz; applying a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with dilution of less than twenty percent using said weld head; forming a weld pool on the tube where said bead of melted overlay material is applied to the tube; oscillating said weld pool as said overlay material is applied to the tube; and moving said weld head along the tube as the overlay material is applied to the tube. 29. A tube having an overlay of weld material, comprising the overlay being formed by preheating the weld material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the weld; melting said preheated weld material by applying a high frequency wave pulse current to the tube using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head; and applying a bead of said melted weld material to the tube using said weld head to form an overlay on the tube. 30. A tube having an overlay of weld material, comprising the overlay being formed by preheating the weld material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the weld; melting said preheated weld material by applying a high frequency wave pulse current using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head in a frequency range between three hundred and six hundred Hertz; forming a weld pool on the tube with said melted weld material; and oscillating said weld pool simultaneously while using said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to apply said melted weld material to said weld pool for forming an overlay on the tube. 31. A system for overlaying weld material on a tube, comprising: a tube holder for holding the tube; a preheater for preheating the weld material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the weld material; a holder for placing the weld material adjacent the tube; a robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating a high frequency wave pulse current for melting the weld material using said high frequency wave pulse current and for applying a bead of said melted weld material to the tube; and a track for carrying said robotic high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head along the tube. 32. A system for overlaying weld material on a tube, comprising: means for holding for the tube; means for preheating the weld material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the weld material; means for placing the weld material adjacent the tube; a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head for generating a high frequency wave pulse current for melting the weld material using said high frequency wave pulse current, said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head being configured to apply a bead of said melted weld material to the tube; and means for carrying said high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head along the tube. 33. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to melt said preheated overlay material by applying a high frequency wave pulse current to the tube; controlling the height of said weld head with respect to the tube using an automatic arc voltage control; and using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to apply a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with a dilution of less than twenty percent. 34. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to melt said preheated overlay material by applying a high frequency wave pulse current to the tube; forming a weld pool on the tube where said bead of overlay material is applied to the tube and oscillating said weld pool as said overlay material is applied to the tube; controlling the height of said weld head with respect to the tube using an automatic arc voltage control; and using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to apply a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with a dilution of less than twenty percent. 35. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to melt said preheated overlay material by applying a wave pulse current at a wave pulse frequency of between three hundred and six hundred Hertz to the tube; controlling the height of said weld head with respect to the tube using an automatic arc voltage control; using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head angled between twenty and thirty degrees with respect to the tube to apply a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with a dilution of less than twenty percent; and forming a weld pool on the tube where said bead of overlay material is applied to the tube and oscillating said weld pool as said overlay material is applied to the tube. 36. A process for applying an overlay material to a tube, the process comprising: preheating the overlay material to a temperature lower than the melting point of the overlay material and placing the overlay material adjacent the tube; and using a high frequency wave pulse gas tungsten arc weld head to substantially simultaneously melt said preheated overlay material and apply a bead of said melted overlay material to the tube with a dilution of less than twenty percent. 