An amusement device is disclosed having an animal body portion and a remote control portion. The animal body portion may be a lizard having horns and a tail. A user may use the remote control to cause the animal to move. The animal body has at least one motor operably connected to the animal's head, legs, and tail. The motor causes the animal to walk forward, walk backward, or dance in place at the selection of the user, and causes the tail to move and the mouth of the animal's head to move. An extendable tongue protrudes from the mouth. The tongue may have a magnetic tip for connecting with a magnetic or metallic object. The device may also contain a speaker that plays music and/or words as selected by the user through the remote control. In one embodiment, the lizard dances while playing music.
Claims We claim: 1. An electromechanical amusement device comprising: an animal portion comprising: a body portion; a head connected to the body portion; a tail connected to the body portion; legs connected to the body portion; a receiver for receiving a signal; a motor for causing the animal portion to move based upon the signal; and a tongue operably coupled to the motor, the tongue comprising a plurality of elongated members connected as a lattice that extends and retracts and a magnetic end poron; a remote control that interfaces with the animal portion comprising: a button for selecting a feature; and a transmitter connected to the button for transmitting the signal to the receiver. 2. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the tail and the head move relative to the body portion as the legs move. 3. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the motor causes the animal portion to walk forward or backward. 4. The amusement device of claim 1, the animal portion further comprising a speaker that plays a sound. 5. The amusement device of claim 4, the animal portion further comprising a memory that stores the sound that is played by the speaker. 6. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the animal portion further comprises a head motor connected to the head, which head motor causes the head to move. 7. The amusement device of claim 1, further comprising at object that magnetically connects to the magnetic end portion of the tongue. 8. A remote-controlled animal amusement device comprising: a body; a head connected to the body, the head comprising: a lower jaw that defines a mouth; a tongue connected to the head inside the mouth, the tongue comprising: a plurality of elongated lattice members pivotally connected to each other; a stationary connector connected to one of the plurality of members; a slidable connector connected to another of the plurality of members, wherein the slidable member moves relative to the stationary connector causing the tongue to extend as the slidable connector moves away from the fixed connector and causing the tongue to retract as the slidable connector moves toward the fixed connector. 9. The amusement device of claim 8, further comprising a motor connected to the slidable connector, which motor causes the slidable member to move. 10. The amusement device of claim 8, further comprising a remote control comprising: a feature selection button; an electronics portion connected to the button that creates a signal based on an input from the button; and a transmitter connected to the electronics portion that transmits a signal to a receiver connected to the motor, which signal causes the tongue to extend or retract. 11. The amusement device of claim 8, further comprising a fly object that removably attaches to the tongue. 12. The amusement device of claim 8, further comprising a magnetic object that removably attaches to the tongue. 