A method for creating a hot melt foamed form for an air induction system. A block of thermal mastic elastomer is melted and blended with nitrogen gas to create a foamed material. The foamed material is applied by robotic techniques over a base material on the surface of a polypropylene glass lower shell. After the foamed material cures, a polypropylene glass cover is applied over the foamed material form to create an air tight dust/water seal. The cover does not adhere to the cured foamed material and is removable when service is necessary. The foam material can also be dispensed into a mold and then transferred to the base, allowing for changes in the shape and profile of the foamed material. This method can also be employed to create an isolation pad on an air induction system to absorb engine shock. The thermal mastic elastomer can also be employed to create a seal between the cover neck of an air induction assembly and a mass air flow sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming an elastomeric seal for use with an air induction assembly comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; positioning a mold around an interior surface and an exeterior surface of a neck of a lower shell; dispensing said liquid form into said mold to create said elastomeric seal; removing said clastomeric seal from said mold with said neck attached; and inserting a mass air flow sensor into said neck of said lower shell, said elastomeric meal securing said mass air flow sensor in said neck. 2. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising the step of blending a gas into said liquid form to form a foamed composition. 3. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 4. A method for forming an elastomeric seal for use with an air induction assembly comprising the steps of: melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to a liquid form; inserting a mass airflow sensor having an outer diameter into a neck of a lower shell having an inner diameter, said inner diameter being greater than said outer diameter; and dispensing said liquid form through an aperture in said neck and between maid neck and said mass air flow sensor to create said elastomeric seal, said elastomeric seal securing said mass air flow sensor to said neck. 5. The method as recited in claim 4 further comprising the step of blending a gas into said liquid form to form a foamed composition. 6. The method as recited in claim 5 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 7. A method for forming an elastomeric seal for use with an air induction assembly comprising the steps of: applying a liquid thermal mastic elastomeric material around an interior surface and an exterior surface of a neck of the air induction assembly to create said elastomeric seal; and inserting a mass air flow sensor into said neck of said lower shell, said elastomeric seal securing said mass air flow sensor in said neck. 8. The method as recited in claim 7 further including the step of melting a thermal mastic elastomeric material to said liquid thermal mastic elastomeric material prior to the step of applying. 9. The method as recited in claim 7, further comprising the step of blending a gas into said liquid to form a foamed composition. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 