A handle used to control movement of a medical instrument. The medical instrument may be coupled to a robotic arm that is connected to a controller. The medical instrument may have a plurality of functions such as wrist locking and motion scaling. One of the functions may be selected through a graphical user interface operated by the end user. The handle may have a plurality of buttons. One of the buttons may allow the end user to control the selected function. For example, when wrist locking/unlocking is selected, depressing the button can toggle the medical instrument wrist between a locked state and an unlocked state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system, the system comprising: a medical instrument movable by a robotic arm, the medical instrument having an actuatable end effector; a controller coupled to the robotic arm for directing movement of the medical instrument; a handle coupled to the controller, movement of the handle effecting movement of the medical instrument, the handle suitable for grasping with a hand, the handle including a housing and a grasper moveable relative to the housing when the hand grasps the handle so as to effect actuation of the actuatable end effector, the handle also having a switch engageable by the hand while the hand grasps the handle so as to lock actuation of the actuatable end effector of the medical instrument while using the medical instrument for a procedure. 2. A system as in claim 1, wherein the medical instrument comprises a wrist and wherein the switch locks actuation of the wrist. 3. A system as in claim 1, wherein the actuation of the end effector comprises opening of jaws, and wherein the switch locks the jaws. 4. A system as in claim 1, wherein the handle also includes an input and the engageable by the hand for controlling a function of the system, and further comprising a screen that displays a graphical user interface that allows for the selection of the function from among a plurality of functions. 5. A system as in claim 4, wherein the grasper further comprises a pair of grooves for receiving fingers of the hand, and the handle housing further comprises a groove for receiving a thumb of the hand. 6. A method for controlling a medical robotic system, the method comprising: robotically moving a medical instrument by articulating a robotic arm in response to moving a handle with a hand, the medical instrument having an actuatable end effector comprising jaws, the handle having a housing and a grasper suitable for grasping with a hand and a switch engageable by the hand; actuating the jaws by grasping the handle with the hand so that the grasper moves toward the housing; and locking actuation of the jaws by engaging a switch with the hand while the hand grasps and moves the handle. 