A pointer to teach a robot to repetitively manipulate a brazing nozzle is provided. In a preferred embodiment, the pointer allows the robot to manipulate the brazing nozzle at a preselected work distance away from a surface along a multi-dimensional path on a complex work piece. The pointer includes a base portion for connection with an end of a robot arm. The pointer additionally has a main body having a length inclusive of the base portion approximating the length of the brazing nozzle and the preselected work distance of the brazing nozzle away from the work piece. A contact portion of the pointer is continuous with the main body and is provided for contacting the work piece. The contact portion has two small parallel spaced surface flats. The surface flats of the contact portion are generally aligned in a common plane at the preselected work angle with respect to the robot arm. The flats are separated by a window cut out to allow an operator who is programming the robot to visually inspect an instantaneous surface of the work piece which is juxtaposed by the flats.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pointer utilized to teach a robot to repetitively manipulate an end of an arm tool having a preselected length along a multi-dimensional path on a resetting work piece at a generally constant preselected desired work angle and work distance from an instantaneous surface of said work piece along said multidimensional path, said pointer comprising: a base portion to connect said pointer with an end of a robot arm; a main body connected with said base portion having a length inclusive of said base portion approximating said preselected length of said end of arm tool and said preselected work distance; and a contact portion continuous with said main body for contacting said work piece, said contact portion having two small parallel spaced surface flats generally aligned in a common plane at said preselected work angle with respect to said robot arm, said flats being separated by a window cut-out to allow an operator to visually inspect said instantaneous surface of said work piece juxtaposed by said flats. 2. A pointer as described in claim 1 wherein said flats are in a plane perpendicular to said robot arm. 3. A pointer as described in claim 1 wherein said end of arm tool is a brazing nozzle. 4. A pointer as described in claim 1 wherein said pointer is adapted to be utilized on an automobile vehicle body work piece. 5. A pointer as described in claim 4 wherein said automotive body work piece is a C Pillar joining a roof panel to a quarter panel. 6. A pointer as described in claim 1, wherein said pointer is fabricated from a transparent material. 7. A pointer to use to teach a robot to repetitively manipulate a brazing nozzle of a preselected length along a multi-dimensional path on a resetting work piece provided by a C pillar of an automobile vehicle body at a generally perpendicular work angle and at a preselected work distance from an instantaneous surface of said C pillar along said multi-dimensional path, said pointer comprising: a base portion connecting said pointer with an end of a robot arm; a main body having an elongated form with a generally rectangular cross-section, said main body being connected with said base portion having a length inclusive of said base approximating said preselected length of said brazing nozzle and said preselected work distance; and a contact portion continuous and integral with said main body for contacting said C pillar, said contact portion having two small parallel space surface flats generally aligned in a common plane perpendicular with respect to said robot arm, said flats being separated by a window cut-out to allow an operator to visually inspect said instantaneous surface of said C pillar juxtaposed by said flats. 8. A method of using a pointer to teach a robot to repetitively manipulate an end of arm tool having a preselected length along a multidimensional path on a resetting work piece at a generally constant preselected desired work angle and work distance from an instantaneous surface of said work piece along said multi-dimensional path, said method comprising: connecting a base of said pointer with an end of a robot arm; connecting with said pointer base portion a main body of said pointer having a length inclusive of said base portion approximating said preselected length of said end of arm tool and said preselected desired work distance; connecting with said main body a contact portion continuous with said main body for contacting said work piece, said contact portion having two small parallel space surface flats generally aligned in a common plane at said preselected work angle with respect to said robot arm, said flats being separated by a window cut-out to allow an operator to visually inspect said instantaneous surface of said work piece juxtaposed by said flats; and contacting said work piece with said pointer while moving said robot arm. 