An actuator system for assisting extension of a biological joint is provided with a motor assembly, a rotary-to-linear mechanism, and an extension stop. The rotary-to-linear mechanism includes a screw that accepts rotational output of the motor assembly, and a nut that cooperates with the screw to convert rotational movement of the screw to linear movement of the nut. The extension stop is driven by linear movement of the nut in an extension direction to cause extension of the biological joint. The motor assembly, the rotary-to-linear mechanism and the extension stop cooperate to allow unpowered flexion of the joint. The system is configured without a flexion stop, and is configured such that the nut cannot drive the joint in a flexion direction. Methods of use are also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. An actuator system for assisting extension of a biological joint, comprising: a motor assembly that provides a rotational output; a rotary-to-linear mechanism including a screw that accepts the rotational output of the motor assembly, and a nut that cooperates with the screw to convert rotational movement of the screw to linear movement of the nut; and an extension stop which is driven by linear movement of the nut in an extension direction to cause extension of the biological joint, wherein the motor assembly, the rotary-to-linear mechanism and the extension stop cooperate to allow unpowered flexion of the joint, wherein the system is configured without a flexion stop, and wherein the system is configured such that the nut cannot drive the joint in a flexion direction. 2. The actuator system of claim 1, wherein the motor assembly allows unpowered extension of the joint when the extension stop is moved by a patient in the extension direction away from the nut. 3. The actuator system of claim 1, further comprising a moving rail upon which the extension stop is mounted, the moving rail configured to move linearly in an extension direction to cause extension of the joint. 4. The actuator system of claim 3, further comprising a controller configured to sense a position of the nut or the moving rail. 5. The actuator system of claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to provide current to the motor assembly based on the sensed position of the nut or the moving rail. 6. The actuator system of claim 3, wherein the moving rail is further configured to move linearly in a flexion direction. 7. The actuator system of claim 6, wherein the motor assembly allows for back-driving of the motor assembly when the extension stop is moved against the nut by a patient in the flexion direction. 8. The actuator system of claim 1, wherein the motor assembly includes a drive shaft, and wherein the screw is connected to the drive shaft. 9. The actuator system of claim 1, wherein the nut is a ball nut. 10. An actuator system for assisting extension of a joint, comprising: a motor assembly that provides a rotational output; a rotary-to-linear mechanism including a screw that accepts the rotational output of the motor assembly, and a nut that cooperates with the screw to convert rotational movement of the screw to linear movement of the nut; and an extension stop which is driven by linear movement of the nut in an extension direction to cause extension of the joint, wherein the motor assembly, the rotary-to-linear mechanism and the extension stop cooperate to allow unpowered flexion of the joint, wherein the extension stop is movable between a force position that allows the nut to apply force against the extension stop, and a pass position that prevents the nut from applying force against the extension stop. 11. A method of assisting extension of a biological joint of a user, the method comprising: receiving rotational output from a motor assembly; translating the rotational output to linear output using a rotary-to-linear mechanism; assisting extension of the biological joint using the linear output from the mechanism; and allowing for unpowered extension of the joint, wherein an actuator system which comprises the motor assembly and the rotary-to-linear mechanism includes a screw that accepts the rotational output of the motor assembly, a nut that cooperates with the screw to convert rotational movement of the screw to linear movement of the nut, and an extension stop which is driven by linear movement of the nut in an extension direction, wherein the actuation system is configured without a flexion stop, and wherein the system is configured such that the nut cannot drive the joint in a flexion direction. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising allowing unpowered flexion of the joint. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein an actuator system which comprises the motor assembly and the rotary-to-linear mechanism includes gears or pulleys. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the extension stop is moved by the user in the extension direction away from the nut when there is unpowered extension of the joint by the user. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising back-driving the motor assembly when the extension stop is moved against the ball nut by the user in a flexion direction. 