An apparatus for trimming at least one overhanging layer from a workpiece, the apparatus comprising a laser configured to produce a cutting beam capable of cutting the overhanging layer, a cutting head comprising an upper element and a lower element, wherein the cutting head is configured to receive the cutting beam and split the cutting beam into a first portion and a second portion, wherein the first portion exits the cutting head through a upper element and the second portion exits the cutting head through a lower element, and a sensor configured to detect and control movement of the cutting head relative to the workpiece.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for trimming at least one overhanging layer from a workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a laser configured to produce a cutting beam capable of cutting the overhanging layer; a cutting head, the cutting head comprising an upper element and a lower element, wherein the cutting head is configured to receive the cutting beam and split the cutting beam into a first portion and a second portion, wherein the first portion exits the cutting head through a upper element and the second portion exits the cutting head through a lower element; and a sensor configured to detect the position of the workpiece relative to the cutting head. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an arm, wherein the cutting head is rotatably fastened to the arm. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one clamp configured to position the workpiece. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser is a carbon dioxide laser. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the arm is a gantry capable of moving the cutting head relative to the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a multi-axis positioning system for moving the cutting head relative to the workpiece. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second laser configured to produce a cutting beam capable of cutting the overhanging layer. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor is an ultrasonic sensor configured to generate signals corresponding to the distance of the head from the workpiece. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a microprocessor configured to interpret signals from the sensor. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the microprocessor is configured to control the motion of the head. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor is disposed on the cutting head. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the distance between the upper element and the workpiece is adjustable. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting head can be adjusted for trimming workpieces with a variety of thicknesses. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the thickness is between 0.125" to 2". 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting head further comprises an omni-directional beam splitter. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting head further comprises at least one focusing optic. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cutting head further comprises at least one mirror. 18. A method of trimming a workpiece, the workpiece including a core with a perimeter, the workpiece also including at least one laminate layer dispsoed on the core and extending over at least a portion of the perimeter, the method comprising: providing at least one trimming means configured to remove the laminate layer extending over at least a portion of the perimeter; aligning the trimming means with the perimeter; moving the trimming means along the perimeter while the trimming means removes only the laminate surface extending over at least a portion of the perimeter; and securing the workpiece with a fastening means. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising securing the workpiece with a vacuum means. 20. An automatic edge sensing laser cutter comprising: a laser configured to produce a cutting beam; a cutting head rotatable attached to the laser and configured to receive the cutting beam; a sensor disposed on the cutting head; and a cutting head comprising: a upper element; a lower element; an adjustable top focus for adjusting the distance between the upper element and the workpiece; an omni-directional beam splitter configured to evenly divide energy from the cutting beam as the cutting head rotates, wherein a portion of the energy exits the cutting head through the upper element and a portion of the energy exits the cutting head through the lower element; and at least one zero phase shift mirror for directing a portion of the energy through the lower element. 21. The automatic edge sensing laser cutter of claim 20, further comprising a means for positioning the cutting head relative to a workpiece. 22. The automatic edge sensing laser cutter of claim 20, further comprising a microprocessor for interpreting signals from the sensor. 23. The automatic edge sensing laser cutter of claim 20, further comprising an arm capable of moving the cutting head relative to a workpiece. 24. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising a multi-axis positioning system for moving the cutting head relative to a workpiece. 