A robot device that either translationally or rotationally aligns an object with a slot. For translational alignment, the robot device comprises a position sensor positioned in close proximity to the slot. The translational position sensor determines the position of the object by moving the object parallel to the slot until it actuates the position sensor. For rotational alignment, two position sensors are provided that determine the relative angle between the object and a portion of the robot device and the object.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus that aligns an object with a slot, the apparatus comprising a translational position sensor positioned in close proximity to the slot, wherein said translational position sensor determines the position of the object moving relative to the position of the slot. 2. The apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the object to be aligned is an end effector. 3. The apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the object to be aligned is a substrate. 4. The apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the translational position sensor comprises a sensor having a beam that can be broken by the object. 5. The apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein the object can pass through the slot after it is aligned with the slot, the apparatus further comprising a translation device that passes the object through the slot. 6. The apparatus set forth in claim 1, wherein a stored object configuration is stored in a memory, the stored object configuration is used to determine the position of the object. 7. An apparatus for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, comprising: the end effector having: a support device to support the substrate; an angle-determining device disposed at an end of the support device, the angle-determining device being configured to determine an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; and a rotational device that rotates the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle. 8. An apparatus for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, comprising: the end effector having: a support device to support the substrate; an angle-determining device disposed at an end of the support device, the angle-determining device being configured to determine an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; and a rotational device that rotates the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle; and a translation device that moves the end effector to a position in close proximity to a slot, wherein the translation device moves the end effector in a direction parallel to the width of the slot until a sensor is actuated by the substrate. 9. An apparatus for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, comprising: the end effector having: a support device to support the substrate; an angle-determining device disposed at an end of the support device, the angle-determining device being configured to determine an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; and a rotational device that rotates the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle; and a translation device that moves the end effector in a direction through a slot. 10. The apparatus set forth in claim 7, wherein the angle determining device comprises a plurality of array proximity sensors. 11. The apparatus set forth in claim 7, wherein the angle determining device comprises a plurality of distance sensors. 12. An apparatus for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, the apparatus comprising: the end effector positioned relative to the substrate, the effector having: an angle-determining device that determines an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; a support device that supports the substrate with the end effector at the offset angle; and a rotational device that rotates the end effector relative to the substrate in response to the offset angle. 13. An apparatus for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, the apparatus comprising: the end effector positioned relative to the substrate, the effector having: an angle-determining device that determines an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; a support device that supports the substrate with the end effector at the offset angle; and a rotational device that rotates the end effector relative to the substrate in response to the offset angle; and a translation device that translates the end effector into close proximity with a slot, wherein the translation device moves the end effector in a direction parallel to the width of the slot until a sensor is actuated by the substrate. 14. The apparatus set forth in claim 13, wherein the translation device moves the end effector in a direction substantially perpendicular to the slot until the substrate fully passes through the slot. 15. The apparatus set forth in claim 12, wherein the angle determining device comprises a plurality of array proximity sensors. 16. The apparatus set forth in claim 12, wherein the angle determining device comprises a plurality of distance sensors. 17. An apparatus comprising: a robot device that rotates about a rotational joint, the robot device having an end effector comprising: a support device to support the substrate; an angle-determining device disposed at an end of the support device, the angle-determining device is configured to determine an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; and a rotational device that rotates the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle. 18. The apparatus set forth in claim 17, wherein the robot device comprises multiple arms mechanically linked together by rotational joints. 19. The apparatus set forth in claim 17, the robot device further comprising a robot base constrained to follow a robot travel path. 20. A method for aligning an object with a slot, the method comprising: positioning a translational position sensor a prescribed distance laterally of the slot; and sensing position of the object moving relative to the slot using the translational position sensor. 21. The method set forth in claim 20, wherein the object to be aligned is an end effector. 22. The method set forth in claim 20, wherein the object to be aligned is a substrate. 23. The method set forth in claim 20, wherein the translational position sensor comprises a sensor having a beam that is broken by the object during the sensing position step. 24. The method set forth in claim 20, wherein the object is configured to pass through the slot if it is aligned with the slot, the method further comprising passing the object through the slot. 25. The method set forth in claim 20, wherein a stored object configuration is stored in a memory, the method further utilizes the stored object configuration in the sensing position step. 26. A method for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, the method comprising: positioning the end effector relative to the substrate; determining an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; rotating the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle; and supporting the substrate with the end effector. 27. The method set forth in claim 26, further comprising: positioning the end effector in close proximity to the slot; and moving the end effector in a direction parallel to the slot until a sensor is actuated by the substrate. 28. A method for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, the method comprising: positioning the end effector relative to the substrate; determining an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; rotating the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle; supporting the substrate with the end effector; and moving the end effector in a direction substantially perpendicular to the slot until the substrate fully passes through the slot. 29. A method for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, the method comprising: positioning the end effector relative to the substrate; thereafter supporting the substrate with the end effector; thereafter determining an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; and thereafter rotating the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle. 30. The method set forth in claim 29, further comprising: positioning the end effector in close proximity to the slot; and thereafter moving the end effector in a direction parallel to the width of the slot until a sensor is actuated by the substrate. 31. A method for rotationally aligning an end effector with a substrate, the method comprising: positioning the end effector relative to the substrate; thereafter supporting the substrate with the end effector; thereafter determining an offset angle of the substrate relative to the end effector; thereafter rotating the end effector relative to the substrate to compensate for the offset angle; and moving the end effector in a direction substantially perpendicular to the slot until the substrate fully passes through the slot. 32. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the translational position sensor comprises a beam transmitter configured to transmit a vertically directed beam; and a beam receiver configured to receive the vertically directed beam. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the beam transmitter is disposed above the slot and the beam receiver is disposed below the slot such that the beam transmitter and the beam receiver are aligned with one of a left side and a right side of the slot. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the vertically directed beam is broken by the object when the object is aligned with one of the left side and the right side of the slot. 35. An apparatus comprising: a robot device that rotates about a rotational joint, the robot device having an end effector, and the robot device being configured to align the end effector with a substrate both in instances where the substrate is aligned with the rotational joint and in instances where the substrate is not aligned with the rotational joint; and a translational position sensor positioned in close proximity to a slot, the translational positioned sensor being configured to align the substrate with the slot. 