Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed, where the polymer sample, solvent, liquid chromatograph column and/or mobile phase eluant is heated to temperatures of at least 75 degrees Celsius during the sample injection or elution process. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for characterizing polymer samples using flow characterization systems such as a liquid chromatography system or a flow-injection analysis system, the method comprising: heating a substrate containing a spatially separated library of non-biological polymer samples to maintain the polymer samples at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C.; sampling the polymer samples into a flow characterization system selected from the group consisting of a liquid chromatography system and a flow-injection analysis system; separating the samples in the flow characterization system into two or more components; maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C. during the sampling and separation steps, and detecting a property of the samples or of a component thereof using the flow characterization system. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the detecting step comprises detecting the property of the sample while the sample is in the detection cavity of a flow through detector of the flow characterization system. 3. The method according to claim 1 comprising heating a substrate containing a library of samples that have similar thermal conductivity. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C. during the detection step. 5. The method of claim 1 comprising heating the substrate to maintain the polymer samples at a temperature of not less than 100.degree. C. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 100.degree. C. during the sampling, separation and detection steps. 7. The method of claim 1 comprising: heating the substrate; and thereafter placing the polymer samples in the substrate; both prior to sampling the polymer samples into the flow characterization system. 8. The method according to claim 1 comprising heating the substrate to maintain the polymer samples at a temperature of not less than 125.degree. C. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 125.degree. C. during the sampling, separation and detection steps. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of sampling the library comprises sequentially sampling the library. 11. The method according to claim 10 comprising sequentially sampling the samples in the library at a rate of 10 minutes or less per sample. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of sampling the library comprises sampling the library in parallel. 13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the sampling step comprises loading the library into two columns by serially loading half of the polymer samples of the library into each column. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein the sampling step comprises loading the library into N columns, where N is an integer greater than 1, by serially loading a fraction of 1/N of the polymer samples of the-library into each column. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein N is less than the number of samples in the library. 16. The method according to claim 1 wherein the flow characterization system is a liquid chromatography system and the polymer samples are separated therein. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the flow characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system. 18. The method according to claim 1 wherein a property of the sample or of a component thereof is detected using a light scattering detection system. 19. A method for characterizing polymer samples using a flow characterization system such as a liquid chromatography system or a flow-injection analysis system, the method comprising: injecting samples from a library of non-biological polymerization product mixture samples into a mobile phase of a flow characterization system selected from the group consisting of a liquid chromatography system and a flow injection analysis system; the samples in the library comprising reaction products of polymerization reactions that have been varied with respect to a factor affecting polymerization; separating the injected sample into two or more components while maintaining the sample at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C. during the separation step, and etecting a property of the sample or of a component thereof using the flow characterization system. 20. The method according to claim 19 further comprising the step of: forming the library of polymerization product mixture samples through polymerization reactions on reactant materials while varying factors selected from the group consisting of: reactants, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives, the relative amounts, the foregoing factors reaction conditions, and combinations of these factors. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 75.degree. C. during the injection and detection steps. 22. The method of claim 19 further comprising maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 100.degree. C. during the injection, separation and detection steps. 23. The method of claim 19 further comprising maintaining the samples at a temperature of not less than about 125.degree. C. during the injection, separation and detection steps. 24. A method according to claim 19 wherein the step of injecting the library comprises sequentially injecting the polymer samples of the library into the mobile phase of the flow characterization system. 25. A method according to claim 24 comprising serially injecting the samples in the library at a rate of 10 minutes or less per sample. 26. A method according to claim 19 wherein the step of injecting the library comprises injecting the library in parallel. 27. A method according to claim 19 wherein the injecting step comprises loading the library into N columns, where N is an integer greater than 1, by serially loading a fraction of 1/N of the polymer samples in the library into each column. 28. A method according to claim 27 wherein N is less than the number of samples in the library. 29. The method according to claim 19 wherein the flow characterization system is a liquid chromatography system and the polymer samples are separated therein. 30. The method according to claim 19 wherein the flow characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system. 31. The method according to claim 19 wherein a property of the sample or of a component thereof is detected using a light scattering detection system. 