According to one embodiment, a robotic apparatus for maintaining a collection of stocks of small organisms, such as fruit flies, is capable of performing various tasks, including automatically transferring live flies from a donor container to a recipient container, such as for the purpose of feeding the flies. The apparatus includes an anesthetizing mechanism configured to automatically introduce an anesthetic, such as gaseous CO.sub.2, into a donor container of live flies to temporarily immobilize the flies before the flies are transferred to the recipient container. The apparatus also includes a gas manifold that is configured to direct a flow of gas from a compressed-gas source into the donor container such that the immobilized flies are blown from the donor container into the recipient container. In another embodiment, automated methods are provided for maintaining a collection of stocks of small organisms, such as fruit flies.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for transferring small organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the apparatus comprising: a source of an anesthetic configured to deliver anesthetic to the donor container for temporarily immobilizing the organisms in the donor container; and a source of gas configured to deliver a flow of the gas into the donor container sufficient for blowing the immobilized organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an anesthetic-delivery system configured to automatically introduce the anesthetic into the donor container. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the anesthetic-delivery system comprises a needle fluidly connectable to the source of the anesthetic, the anesthetic-delivery system configured to insert the needle into the donor container for introducing the anesthetic into the donor container. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a gas manifold configured to direct the flow of gas into the donor container such that the organisms are entrained and carried by the flow of gas into the recipient container. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the gas manifold comprises a manifold block defining an opening extending through the block, the opening being dimensioned to receive an open top portion of a donor container on one side of the block and an open top portion of the recipient container on the other side of the block such that, whenever the flow of gas is introduced into the donor container, the organisms are blown by the gas from the donor container through the opening into the recipient container. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a transfer device comprising a donor-container positioner and a recipient-container positioner for positioning the donor container and recipient container, respectively, at the gas manifold for transferring the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transfer device including an anesthetizing mechanism operatively coupled to the source of the anesthetic and a gas manifold operatively coupled to the source of gas, the anesthetizing mechanism being configured to introduce the anesthetic into the donor container, and the gas manifold being configured to blow the organisms by the flow of gas from the donor container to the recipient container. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a robotic arm configured to move the donor and recipient containers to the transfer device for transferring the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the anesthetic comprises carbon dioxide gas. 10. An apparatus for transferring live organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the apparatus comprising: a transfer device for automatically transferring the live organisms from the donor container to the recipient container; and an anesthetizing mechanism configured to expose the organisms to an anesthetic so as to immobilize the organisms for transfer from the donor container to the recipient container. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein: the donor container is a donor vial having a removable plug and the recipient container is a recipient vial: and the apparatus is configured to remove the plug from the donor vial, transfer the live organisms to the recipient vial, and place a removable plug in the recipient vial. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the anesthetic comprises carbon dioxide gas. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the anesthetizing mechanism comprises a needle fluidly connectable to a source of the anesthetic, the anesthetizing mechanism being configured to insert the needle into the donor container and deliver the anesthetic to the organisms in the donor container whenever the source of the anesthetic is activated to supply the anesthetic to the needle. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 configured such that the anesthetizing mechanism exposes the organisms to the anesthetic so as to immobilize the organisms prior to transferring the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the anesthetizing mechanism is configured to automatically expose the organisms to the anesthetic so as to immobilize the organisms and the transfer device operates in coordination with the anesthetizing mechanism to automatically transfer immobilized organisms to the recipient container. 16. An apparatus for automatically transferring live organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the apparatus comprising a gas manifold fluidly connectable to a gas source and configured to direct a flow of gas into the donor container such that the organisms are transferred by the flow of gas into the recipient container. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the gas manifold comprises an elongate gas-delivery tube configured such that, whenever the tube is inserted into the donor container and the gas source is activated to supply the flow of gas to the gas manifold, the tube directs the flow of gas from the donor container to the recipient container to blow the organisms from the donor container into the recipient container. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a donor-container positioner and a recipient-container positioner for automatically positioning the donor container and the recipient container, respectively, at the gas manifold for transferring the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 19. An apparatus for automatically transferring live organisms from a donor container to a recipient container the apparatus comprising: a plurality of donor containers, at least some of which contain live organisms; a plurality of recipient containers for receiving organisms from respective donor containers; at least one transfer device configured to transfer organisms from a donor container to a respective recipient container; and a robotic arm configured to automatically pick up a donor container and transfer the donor container to the transfer device and to pick up a recipient container and transfer the recipient container to the transfer device for transferring organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a bar-code reader for reading bar codes on donor containers or recipient containers. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the robotic arm is configured to transfer donor containers or recipient containers to the bar-code reader for reading bar codes on said donor or recipient containers. 22. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a label maker for making labels and applying the labels to respective donor containers or recipient containers. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the robotic arm is configured to transfer donor containers or recipient containers to the label maker for receiving a label. 24. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the donor containers are supported in a first container rack and the recipient containers are supported in a second container rack, each of the first and second container racks defining two rows of openings for receiving respective containers. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein each of the first and second container racks has first and second side walls, with each side wall defining a plurality of windows to permit inspection of the donor and recipient containers through the side walls. 26. An apparatus for transferring organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the apparatus comprising: gas manifold fluidly connectable to a source of gas, the gas manifold being configured such that, whenever the donor container and the recipient container are positioned at the gas manifold and the source of gas is activated to supply gas to the gas manifold, a flow of gas is directed to blow the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a donor-container positioner for positioning the donor container at the gas manifold, and a recipient-container positioner for positioning the recipient container at the gas manifold. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising a robotic arm configured to automatically pick up the donor container and place the donor container in the donor-container positioner, and to pick up the recipient container and place the recipient container in the recipient-container positioner. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising an anesthetizing mechanism configured to automatically expose the organisms to an anesthetic before the organisms are transferred into the recipient container. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the anesthetizing mechanism is configured to inject an anesthetic gas into the donor container to immobilize the organisms before the insects are transferred into the recipient container. 31. An apparatus for transferring populations of organisms contained in donor containers to corresponding recipient containers, the apparatus comprising: at least one transfer device configured to transfer a population of organisms from a donor container to a respective recipient container; and a robotic arm configured to automatically pick up a donor container and transfer said donor container to the transfer device and to pick up a corresponding recipient container and transfer said recipient container to the transfer device for transferring the organisms from said donor container to said recipient container. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the transfer device includes an anesthetic-delivery system for introducing an anesthetic into the donor containers, the anesthetic being effective to temporarily immobilize the organisms in the donor containers. 33. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the transfer device includes a gas manifold fluidly connectable to a source of gas, wherein the gas manifold is configured such that, whenever a donor container and a recipient container are positioned at the gas manifold and the source of gas is activated to supply gas to the gas manifold, a flow of gas is directed to blow insects from said donor container to said recipient container. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the transfer device further comprises first and second container positioners, the first container positioner being configured to receive a donor container from the robotic arm and to position the donor container at the gas manifold, the second container positioner being configured to receive a recipient container from the robotic arm and to position the recipient container at the gas manifold. 35. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising a bar-code reader for reading bar codes on donor containers or recipient containers. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the robotic arm is configured to automatically deliver donor containers or recipient containers to the bar-code reader for reading the bar codes on said donor or recipient container. 37. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising a label maker for making labels and applying the labels to respective donor or recipient containers. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the robotic arm is configured to deliver donor containers or recipient containers to the label maker for receiving a label. 39. The apparatus of claims 31, wherein the robotic arm comprises a sensor for detecting the presence of a donor container or a recipient container at a selected location in three-dimensional space. 40. An apparatus for transferring organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the apparatus comprising: immobilizing means for temporarily immobilizing the organisms in the donor container; and transfer means for automatically transferring the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container, the transfer means being coordinated with the immobilizing means to automatically transfer the organisms after the organisms have been immobilized. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the means for temporarily immobilizing the organisms comprises an anesthetic-delivery system configured to deliver an anesthetic to the donor container to expose the organisms in the donor container to the anesthetic. 42. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the means for transferring the organisms from the donor container to the recipient container comprises a gas manifold fluidly connectable to a source of gas and configured to direct a flow of gas into the donor container so as to blow the organisms from the donor container into the recipient container. 43. A method for transferring live organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the method comprising: temporarily immobilizing the organisms in the donor container by exposing the organisms to an anesthetic; and transferring the immobilized organisms from the donor container to the recipient container; wherein the step of transferring the immobilized organisms comprises blowing the immobilized organisms from the donor container to the recipient container with a flow of a gas. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the step of temporarily immobilizing the organisms comprises introducing an anesthetic gas into the donor container, the gas being effective to temporarily immobilize the organisms. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein the anesthetic gas comprises carbon dioxide gas. 46. The method of claim 43, wherein the organisms comprise adult insects, pupae, larvae, and eggs, and the step of blowing the immobilized organisms from the donor container to the recipient container with a flow of the gas comprises blowing the adult insects into the recipient container but not the pupae, larvae, and eggs. 47. The method of claim 43, wherein the organisms are flies. 48. A method for transferring live organisms from a donor container to a recipient container, the method comprising: positioning the donor container and the recipient container such that an open top of the donor container is adjacent an open top of the recipient container; and directing a flow of gas into the donor container such that the organisms are carried by the flow of gas from the donor container to the recipient container. 49. The method of claim 48, further comprising immobilizing the organisms prior to transferring the organisms to the recipient container. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the step of immobilizing the organisms comprises exposing the organisms to an anesthetic. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein the step of immobilizing the insects comprises inserting a needle into the donor container, the needle being fluidly connectable to a source of an anesthetic, and activating the source of the anesthetic so that the anesthetic is introduced into the donor container through the needle. 