Disclosed is a system, method, and an article of manufacture for preferentially keeping an uncopied data set in one of two storage devices in a peer-to-peer environment when data needs to be removed from the storage devices. Each time a data set is modified or newly created, flags are used to denote whether the data set needs to be copied from one storage device to the other. The preferred embodiments modify the timestamp for each uncopied data set by adding a period of time, and thus give preference to the uncopied data set when the data from the storage device is removed based on the least recently used as denoted by timestamp of each data set. Once the data set is copied, the timestamp is set back to normal by subtracting the same period of time added on when the data set was flagged as needing to be copied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for maintaining data in two storage devices, wherein the data is comprised of a plurality of data sets, comprising: maintaining in a first storage device a flag for each data set indicating whether the data set has been copied to a second storage device; maintaining a timestamp for each data set, wherein the timestamp initially represents a last time the data set was accessed; flagging each data set as an uncopied data set when the data set is modified or newly created; modifying the timestamp for each uncopied data set by adding a period of time to the last time the data set was accessed; and removing data from the first storage device based on the timestamp of each data set. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: copying the uncopied data set from the first storage device to the second storage device; changing the flag of the uncopied data set to indicate that the data set has been copied; and modifying the timestamp for the uncopied data set by subtracting the period of time. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein copying the uncopied data set is performed during a process of synchronizing data on both the first and second storage devices. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second storage devices are in a peer-to-peer environment. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: placing the flag of each data set into a flatfile; reviewing the flag of each data set from the flatfile; and searching the flatfile to locate the uncopied data set. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of removing data from the first storage device based on the timestamp of each data set comprises using a Least Recently Used algorithm. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the flag and the timestamp are maintained in a token associated with each data set. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the flag and the timestamp associated with each data set are maintained in a file system of the first and second storage devices. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second storage devices comprise a DASD cache. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first and second storage devices function as a high speed cache for a third and a fourth storage library respectively. 11. A system for maintaining data in two storage devices, wherein the data is comprised of a plurality of data sets, comprising: means for maintaining in a first storage device a flag for each data set indicating whether the data set has been copied to a second storage device; means for maintaining a timestamp for each data set, wherein the timestamp initially represents a last time the data set was accessed; means for flagging each data set as an uncopied data set when the data set is modified or newly created; means for modifying the timestamp for each uncopied data set by adding a period of time to the last time the data set was accessed; and means for removing data from the first storage device based on the timestamp of each data set. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: means for copying the uncopied data set from the first storage device to the second storage device; means for changing the flag of the uncopied data set to indicate that the data set has been copied; and means for modifying the timestamp for the uncopied data set by subtracting the period of time. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein copying the uncopied data set is performed during a process of synchronizing data on both the first and second storage devices. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the first and second storage devices are in a peer-to-peer environment. 15. The system of claim 11, further comprising: means for placing the flag of each data set into a flat file; means for reviewing the flag of each data set from the flat file; and means for searching the flatfile to locate the uncopied data set. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the step of removing data from the first storage device based on the timestamp of each data set comprises using a Least Recently Used algorithm. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the flag and the timestamp are maintained in a token associated with each data set. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the flag and the timestamp associated with each data set are maintained in a file system of the first and second storage devices. 19. The system of claim 11, wherein the first and second storage devices comprise a DASD cache. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the first and second storage devices function as a high speed cache for a third and a fourth storage library respectively. 21. The system of claim 11, wherein the first and second storage devices are two storage devices located in an environment with multiple interlinked storage devices maintaining the same data sets. 22. An article of manufacture containing code for maintaining data in two storage devices, wherein the data is comprised of a plurality of data sets, comprising a computer usable media including at least one computer program embedded therein that is capable of causing at least one computer to perform operations comprising: maintaining in a first storage device a flag for each data set indicating whether the data set has been copied to a second storage device; maintaining a timestamp for each data set, wherein the timestamp initially represents a last time the data set was accessed; flagging each data set as an uncopied data set when the data set is modified or newly created; modifying the timestamp for each uncopied data set by adding a period of time to the last time the data set was accessed; and removing data from the first storage device based on the timestamp of each data set. 23. The article of manufacture of claim 22, further performing: copying the uncopied data set from the first storage device to the second storage device; changing the flag of the uncopied data set to indicate that the data set has been copied; and modifying the timestamp for the uncopied data set by subtracting the period of time. 24. The article of manufacture of claim 23, wherein copying the uncopied data set is performed during a process of synchronizing data on both the first and second storage devices. 25. The article of manufacture of claim 22, wherein the first and second storage devices are in a peer-to-peer environment. 26. The article of manufacture of claim 22, further performing: placing the flag of each data set into a flat file; reviewing the flag of each data set from the flat file; and searching the flatfile to locate the uncopied data set. 27. The article of manufacture of claim 22, wherein the step of removing data from the first storage device based on the timestamp of each data set comprises using a Least Recently Used algorithm. 28. The article of manufacture of claim 22, wherein the flag and the timestamp are maintained in a token associated with each data set. 29. The article of manufacture of claim 22, wherein the flag and the timestamp associated with each data set are maintained in a file system of the first and second storage devices. 30. The article of manufacture of claim 22, wherein the first and second storage devices comprise a DASD cache. 31. The article of manufacture of claim 30, wherein the first and second storage devices function as a high speed cache for a third and a fourth storage library respectively. 