A laser induced thermal imaging (LITI) apparatus and a method of making an electronic device using the same are disclosed. The LITI apparatus includes a chamber, a substrate support, a contact frame, and a laser source or oscillator. The LITI apparatus transfers a transferable layer from a film donor device onto a surface of an intermediate electronic device. The LITI apparatus uses a magnetic force to provide a close contact between the transferable layer and the surface of the intermediate device. The magnetic force is generated by magnetic materials formed in two components of the LITI apparatus that are spaced apart interposing transferable layer and the surface of the intermediate device. Magnets or magnetic materials are formed in the two following components of the LITI apparatus: 1) the intermediate device and the film donor device; 2) the intermediate device and the contact frame; 3) the substrate support and the film donor device; or 4) the substrate support and the contact frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for laser induced thermal imaging (LITI), the apparatus comprising: a chamber; a laser source; and a substrate support directly contacting the chamber comprising a surface facing the laser source and configured to receive thereon a device to be subjected to laser induced thermal imaging, the substrate support comprising a magnet; an intermediate device comprising a receiving surface and placed on the surface of the substrate support; a film donor device comprising a transferable film layer and placed on the receiving surface of the intermediate device; and a contact frame interposed between the laser source and the substrate support, the contact frame being movable relative to the substrate support between a first position and a second position, the first position being a first distance from the substrate support, the second position being a second distance from the substrate support, the second distance being greater than the first distance, the contact frame being configured to press the film donor device against the intermediate device about the first position, the contact frame comprising at least one magnetic material selected from the group consisting of a permanent magnet, an electromagnet, and a magnetically attractable material wherein the substrate support comprises a magnetic layer comprising the magnet. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnetic layer further comprises a non-magnetic mass and a plurality of magnets that are incorporated in the non-magnetic mass. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnetic layer is arranged substantially parallel to the surface of the substrate support. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnet comprises a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the electromagnet is electrically connected to an external power source, and is configured to be selectively stimulated. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnet comprises one or more forms selected from the group consisting of plates, pieces, chips, rods, and particles. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate support further comprises a non-magnetic portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the intermediate device and the film donor device are arranged such that the receiving surface and the transferable film layer are in contact with each other. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein there is substantially no bubble between the receiving surface and the transferable film layer. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the film donor device further comprises a magnetic material selected from the group consisting of a permanent magnet, an electromagnet and a magnetically attractable material. 11. A method of making an electronic device using an apparatus comprising: a chamber; a laser source; a substrate support directly contacting the chamber comprising a surface facing the laser source and configured to receive thereon a device to be subjected to laser induced thermal imaging, the substrate support comprising an electromagnet; an intermediate device comprising a receiving surface and placed on the surface of the substrate support; a film donor device comprising a transferable film layer and placed on the receiving surface of the intermediate device; and a contact frame interposed between the laser source and the substrate support, the contact frame being movable relative to the substrate support between a first position and a second position, the first position being a first distance from the substrate support, the second position being a second distance from the substrate support, the second distance being greater than the first distance, the contact frame being configured to press the film donor device against the intermediate device about the first position, the contact frame comprising at least one magnetic material selected from the group consisting of a permanent magnet, an electromagnet, and a magnetically attractable material; the method comprising: placing the intermediate electronic device on the surface of the substrate support, the intermediate device comprising a receiving surface facing the laser source; and placing the film donor device over the receiving surface of the intermediate device, the film donor device comprising a first surface facing the laser source and a second surface facing the substrate support; contacting the second surface of the film donor device with the receiving surface of the intermediate device; and pressing the film donor device against the intermediate device; wherein the substrate support comprises a magnetic layer comprising the magnet. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising irradiating a laser beam to the film donor device. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the method is conducted in a vacuum atmosphere. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the magnet comprises an electromagnet, and wherein pressing the film donor device comprises activating the electromagnet. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the film donor device comprises a magnet or magnetically attractable material, and wherein pressing the film donor device comprises causing the magnet to magnetically interact with the magnet or magnetically attractable material of the film donor device. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein pressing the film donor device further comprises providing a contact frame located between the film donor device and the laser source, the contact frame comprising a magnet or magnetically attractable material, and wherein pressing the film donor device comprises causing the magnet to magnetically interact with the magnet or magnetically attractable material of the contact frame. 