There is therefore provided, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a robotic system for systematically moving about an area to be covered. The system includes at least one boundary marker (48) located along the outer edge of the area to be covered, a robot (40) with a navigation system (41) and a sensor unit (43). The navigation system (41) navigates the robot (40) in generally straight, parallel lines from an initial location and turns the robot (40) when the robot (40) encounters one of the boundary markers (48), thereby to systematically move about the area to be covered. The sensor unit (43) senses proximity to one of the at least one boundary marker (48).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for systematically moving about an area to be covered, the system comprising: at least one boundary marker located along an outer edge of the area to be covered; a robot for systematically moving about said area to be covered, said robot including a navigation system for navigating said robot in substantially straight lines, substantially parallel to each other, originally from an initial location and for turning said robot when said robot encounters said at least one boundary marker; and a sensor unit for sensing proximity to said at least one boundary marker. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said sensor unit includes means for indicating proximity to an obstacle within said area to be covered and said navigation system includes means for turning said robot when said means for indicating indicate proximity to an obstacle. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said means for indicating is selected from the group comprising: a contact sensor or a proximity sensor. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein said navigation system includes means for counting the number of laps needed to cover the area between an obstacle and said at least one boundary marker. 5. The system of claim 2, additionally comprising: at least one obstacle marker located along the outer edge of an obstacle. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said at least one boundary marker is an electrified wire receiving a first signal and said at least one obstacle marker is an electrified wire receiving a second signal. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said at least one boundary marker is a post having a first bar code and said at least one obstacle marker is post having a second bar code. 8. A robotic system for systematically moving about an area to be covered, the system comprising: at least one boundary marker located along an outer edge of said area to be covered; at least one obstacle marker located along the outer edge of an obstacle within said area to be covered; a robot for moving about said area to be covered; and a sensor unit for sensing proximity to said at least one boundary marker and said at least one obstacle marker and for differentiating between said at least one boundary marker and said at least one obstacle marker. 9. A method of systematically moving a robot about an area comprising at least one boundary marker located along at least a portion of an edge of an area to be covered, the method comprising: navigating said robot in a first substantially straight line from an initial location; sensing proximity of said robot to said at least one boundary marker; turning said robot when said robot encounters said boundary marker; and navigating said robot in a second substantially straight line, said second substantially straight line being substantially parallel to said first substantially straight line. 10. A method of systematically moving a robot about an area comprising at least one boundary marker located along an outer edge of the area and at least one obstacle marker located along an edge of an obstacle within said area, the method comprising: providing said robot to said area to be covered; sensing the proximity to at least one of said at least one boundary marker or said at least one obstacle marker; and determining whether said at least one of said at least one boundary marker or said at least one obstacle marker is a boundary marker or an obstacle marker. 