An improved method of performing surgery on a joint in a patient's body, such as a knee, includes making an incision in a knee portion of one leg while a lower portion of the one leg is extending downward from an upper portion of the one leg and while a foot connected with the lower portion of the one leg is below a support surface on which the patient is disposed. The incision is relatively short, for example, between seven and thirteen centimeters. A patella may be offset from its normal position with an inner side of the patella facing inward during cutting of a bone with a cutting tool. During cutting of the bone, one or more guide members having opposite ends which are spaced apart by a distance less than the width of an implant may be utilized to guide movement of a cutting tool.
Claims Having described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method of performing surgery on a patient's knee, said method comprising the steps of making an incision in a knee portion of one leg of a patient, moving an implant through the incision into the knee portion of the one leg of the patient, positioning the implant between a distal end portion of a femur and a proximal end portion of a tibia in the one leg of the patient, and allowing the implant to move relative to both the femur and tibia in the one leg of the patient during bending of the one leg of the patient, wherein the implant is made of a biodegradable material. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of deflecting the implant to change the implant's configuration after performing said step of positioning the implant between the distal end portion of the femur and the proximal end portion of the tibia. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the implant is moveable in a 360.degree. range of movement relative to both the femur and tibia. 4. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the implant has smooth upper and lower surfaces. 5. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein engagement of the implant with soft tissue limits movement of the implant. 6. A method as set forth in claim 2 further including the steps of imaging the knee and determining the size of the implant based on the knee imaging. 7. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the implant is resiliently deflected. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of connecting the implant to soft body tissue in the knee portion of the patient's one leg to retain the implant against excessive movement relative to the femur and tibia in the one leg of the patient. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8 wherein said step of connecting the implant to soft body tissue in the knee portion of the one leg of the patient includes growing tissue into the implant. 10. A method as set forth in claim 8 wherein said step of connecting the implant to soft tissue in to the knee portion of the one leg of the patient includes connecting the implant with a ligament in the knee portion of the one leg of the patient. 11. A method as set forth in claim 8 wherein said step of connecting the implant to soft tissue in the knee portion of the one leg of the patient includes connecting the implant with a joint capsule which is disposed in the knee portion of the one leg of the patient. 12. A method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising replacing the degraded implant after a predetermined time. 13. A method as set forth in claim 12, wherein replacing the degraded implant comprises: making an incision in a knee portion of one leg of a patient; moving a replacement implant through the incision into the knee portion of the one leg of the patient; positioning the replacement implant between a distal end portion of a femur and a proximal end portion of a tibia in the one leg of the patient; and allowing the replacement implant to move relative to both the femur and tibia in the one leg of the patient during bending of the one leg of the patient. 14. A method as set forth in claim 15 wherein the replacement implant is made of a material selected from the group consisting of a biological material, biodegradable material, metal, ceramic material, and porous material. 15. A method of performing surgery on a patient's knee, said method comprising the steps of: making an incision in a knee portion of one leg of a patient; moving an implant through the incision into the knee portion of the one leg of the patient; positioning the implant between a distal end portion of a femur and a proximal end portion of a tibia in the one leg of the patient; deflecting the implant to change the implant's configuration after positioning the implant between the distal end portion of the femur and the proximal end portion of the tibia; and allowing the implant to move relative to both the femur and tibia in the one leg of the patient during bending of the one leg of the patient, wherein the implant is plastically deformed. 16. A method as set forth in claim 15 wherein the implant is moveable in a 360.degree. range of movement relative to both the femur and tibia. 17. A method as set forth in claim 15 wherein the implant has smooth upper and lower surfaces. 18. A method as set forth in claim 15 wherein engagement of the implant with soft tissue limits movement of the implant. 19. A method as set forth in claim 15 further including imaging the knee and determining the size of the implant based on the knee imaging. 