A user information input structure that inputs user information, a memory structure that stores user's bearing information as robot's bearing pattern, and a regenerating structure that regenerates the pattern based on the information input to the user information input structure. A behavior selection and determination structure for selecting and deciding behaviors based on user information, a user information recognition structure for recognizing a user, a memory structure for storing the recognized user information, a calculating structure for comparing the recognized user information with the stored user information to calculate user recognition, and a compensating structure for compensating a selection and determination method in the behavior selection and determination structure in accordance with the calculated user recognition. An actuator for driving a robot, a detection structure for detecting user information and environment information, a feelings generation structure for generating artificial feelings for a robot based on the detecting user and environment information, and a behavior determination structure for determining behaviors by the robot based on the generated artificial feelings, wherein the behavior determination structure controls the actuator so that a resistance acted on the robot may be changed on tactile information the user has applied to the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A user recognition growth system, comprising: a behavior selection and determination structure for selecting and deciding behaviors based on user information; a user information recognition structure for recognizing a user; a memory structure for storing the recognized user information; a calculating structure for comparing the recognized user information with the stored user information to calculate user recognition; and a compensating structure for compensating a selection and determination of the behavior selection and determination structure in accordance with the calculated user recognition. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pseudo-feelings generation structure for producing pseudo-feelings of a robot according to a feelings model for parameters. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the user recognition is increased every time the user is recognized. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameters are compensated in according with the user recognition. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the user recognition is increased every time the user is recognized. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the user information is at least one of user identification, temper, or instruction. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the user recognition is increased every time the user is recognized.. 8. A user recognition growth system, comprising: a behavior selection and determination structure for selecting and deciding behaviors based on user information; a user information recognition structure for recognizing a user; a memory structure for storing the recognized user information; a calculating structure for comparing the recognized user information with the stored user information to calculate user recognition; and a compensating structure for compensating behaviors selected by the behavior selection and determination structure in accordance with the calculated user recognition. 9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a pseudo-feelings generation structure for producing pseudo-feelings of a robot according to a feelings model for parameters. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the parameters is compensated in accordance with the user recognition and the behaviors is compensated based on the compensated parameters. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the user recognition is increased every time the user is recognized. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein the user information is at least one of user identification, temper, or instruction. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the user recognition is increased every time the user is recognized. 