A connector is provided for the electrical and mechanical connection of components of a system. The connector includes plug and receptacle components. The plug has a central pin surrounded by a plurality of lamellae. An actuator is positioned about the lamellae for controlling the movement thereof. The receptacle has a pin housing corresponding to the central pin of the plug. Additionally, the receptacle includes a plurality of lamellae for mating with the plug lamellae. Like the plug, the receptacle includes an actuator for controlling movement of the receptacle lamellae. The plug lamellae and the receptacle lamellae have corresponding shoulders at the free ends thereof for engagement for interconnecting the plug and the receptacle. The actuators about the plug lamellae and receptacle lamellae control movement thereof and can be engaged to allow for the disconnection of the plug and the receptacle. The central trail pin of the plug and the pin housing of the receptacle can include conductive material for transmitting electrical signals. Similarly, the lamellae can include conductive materials for engagement and transmission of electric signals. In another embodiment, the plug and receptacle are positioned side by side to provide a universal connector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A connector apparatus comprising: a plug component having a housing with a plug base at one end; a central pin extending from the plug base of the housing; a plurality of lamellae interconnected with the plug base and positioned about the central pin, the lamellae having angled faces at the upper free ends and shoulders; a receptacle component having a housing with a receptacle base; a plurality of receptacle pins extending from the receptacle base, positioned to coact with the central pin; a plurality of lamellae extending from the receptacle base and positioned about the receptacle pins, the lamellae having upper free ends with faces and shoulders; a receptacle actuator band positioned proximate to the receptacle lamellae; a fulcrum positioned proximate the receptacle lamellae between the actuator band and the free ends of receptacle lamellae; a plug actuator band extending about the plug lamnellae for moving the plug lamellae away from the receptacle lamellae to allow for disengagement of the connector; wherein, when the plug and receptacle are positioned together, the faces of the plug and receptacle lamellae coact to urge the shoulders of the plug and receptacle lamellae into engagement to connect the plug and the receptacle; and when the plug actuator band is actuated, the plug lamellae are moved away from the receptacle lamellae and when the receptacle actuator band is actuated, the receptacle lamellae are urged against the fulcrum to move the free ends of the receptacle lamellae away from the plus lamellae to allow for disengagement of the connector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band is actuated by an electric signal delivered to the actuator band. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band is actuated by a mechanical signal delivered to the actuator band. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band is actuated by a thermal signal delivered to the actuator band. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an actuating button interconnected with the actuator band for sending a signal to actuate the actuator band to disengage the connector. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band comprises an electrostrictive material. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band comprises a magnetorestrictive material. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band comprises a piezoelectric material. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator band comprises a shape memory alloy material. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band is actuated by an electric signal delivered to the receptacle actuator band. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band is actuated by a mechanical signal delivered to the receptacle actuator band. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band is actuated by a thermal signal delivered to the receptacle actuator band. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a receptacle actuating button interconnected with the receptacle actuator band for mechanically, manually actuating the receptacle actuator band. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band comprises an electrostrictive material. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band comprises a magnetorestrictive material. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band comprises a piezoelectric material. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the receptacle actuator band comprises a shape memory alloy material. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plug and receptacle components are cylindrical. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the position of the plug actuator band with respect to the length of the plug lamellae provides for sufficient displacement of the free ends of the plug lamellae to disengage same from the receptacle lamellae. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the position of the receptacle actuator band with respect to the length of the receptacle lamellae and the position of the fulcrum provides for sufficient displacement of the free ends of the receptacle lamellae to disengage same from the plug lamellae. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an actuating button interconnected with the actuator band for mechanically, manually actuating the actuator band. 22. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the actuating button additionally mechanically actuates the actuator band. 23. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a receptacle actuating button interconnected with the receptacle actuator band for sending a signal to actuate the receptacle actuator band to disengage the connector. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the receptacle actuating button additionally mechanically actuates the receptacle actuator band. 25. A method of connecting objects comprising: providing a plug on one object, the plug including a central pin, a plug connecting ring positioned thereabout, and a plug housing positioned thereabout, the plug connecting ring comprising a plurality of plus fingers extending from a base of the plug receptacle to a free end, the free end including outwardly angled faces and outwardly facing shoulders thereunder, the central pin including a rounded forward surface to self align the central pin of the plus with the central pin receptacle of the receptacle; providing a receptacle on another object, the receptacle including a central pin receptacle, a receptacle connector ring and a receptacle housing thereabout, the receptacle connector ring comprising a plurality of receptacle fingers extending from a receptacle base to a free end, the free ends including inwardly angled faces and inwardly facing shoulders; moving the plug and receptacle together; allowing the central pin to enter the central pin receptacle; allowing the plug connector ring and the receptacle connector ring to engage; and allowing the plug and receptacle housings to engage; wherein exact alignment of the plug and receptacle are not necessary for engagement as the central pin seats itself in the central pin receptacle as the plug and receptacle are moved together and the angled faces of the plug fingers and receptacle fingers bear against each other to move the fingers away from each other to allow the shoulders to move past each other and engage. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising transmitting an electric signal through the connector comprising providing an electrical conductor on the exterior of the central pin and providing a corresponding electrical conductor on the interior of the pin receptacle, the conductors extending through the plug and receptacle bases to allow an electrical signal to travel therethrough. 27. The method of claim 26 further comprising providing electrical conductors on the exterior of the plug fingers and the interior of the receptacle fingers and extending the contacts through the plug and receptacle bases to transmit an electrical signal through the conductor. 28. The method of claim 27 further comprising the step of disengaging the connector by transmitting a signal to an actuator band about the plug fingers to move the plug fingers with respect to the receptacle fingers. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising disconnecting the connector by moving the receptacle fingers outwardly with respect to the plug fingers by moving the receptacle fingers against a fulcrum to spread the receptacle fingers. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the plug fingers can be moved manually by actuating a plug actuator button to manually move the plug fingers. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising the step of manually moving the receptacle fingers by actuating a receptacle actuator button to move the receptacle fingers. 32. The method of claim 31 further comprising forming a universal connector by positioning plugs and receptacles together on an object. 