A method and apparatus for detection of a particular material, such as photo-resist material, on a sample surface. A narrow beam of light is projected onto the sample surface and the fluoresced and/or reflected light intensity at a particular wavelength band is measured by a light detector. The light intensity is converted to a numerical value and transmitted electronically to a logic circuit which determines the proper disposition of the sample. The logic circuit controls a sample-handling robotic device which sequentially transfers samples to and from a stage for testing and subsequent disposition. The method is particularly useful for detecting photo-resist material on the surface of a semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for in situ monitoring of stripping material from a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a stripping chamber configured for stripping material from a semiconductor substrate; a movable stage for positioning said semiconductor substrate within said stripping chamber; a first optical port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into said stripping chamber onto a surface location of said semiconductor substrate; a second optical port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from said surface location as a secondary light beam to exit said stripping chamber; and a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving said secondary light beam from said stripping chamber and measuring an intensity thereof. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a source for producing said beam of high energy light. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said source is selected from a group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus is configured for generating an electronic signal representative of said measured light intensity. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a logic circuit for processing said electronic signal. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said movable stage is configured to move said semiconductor substrate at least partially in response to said electronic signal. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said logic circuit comprises a computer programmed to receive and record said light intensity measurement. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plasma generator. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a photo-multiplier tube. 10. An apparatus for in situ monitoring of stripping material from a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a stripping chamber configured for stripping material from a semiconductor substrate; an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of said semiconductor substrate to and from said stripping chamber; a first optical port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into said stripping chamber onto a surface location of said semiconductor substrate; a second optical port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from said surface location as a secondary light beam to exit said stripping chamber; a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving said secondary light beam from said stripping chamber and measuring an intensity thereof; and at least one band pass filter capable of restricting the beam of high energy light to a predetermined wavelength band. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said at least one band pass filter is positioned to filter said bean, of high energy light. 12. A method for detecting a presence of at least one material on a surface of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: providing a stripping chamber for stripping at least one material from a semiconductor substrate, said stripping chamber comprising a first optical port for allowing light to enter said stripping chamber and a second optical port for allowing said light to exit said stripping chamber; positioning said semiconductor substrate in said stripping chamber with a movable stage; providing alight source; directing light from said light source to enter said stripping chamber through said first optical port and onto said surface of said semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from said surface of said semiconductor substrate through said second optical port; and generating a signal indicative of an intensity of said collected light. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising stripping said at least one material from said surface of said semiconductor substrate. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising transmitting said signal to a logic circuit for processing. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to an automated substrate handling apparatus to control disposition of said semiconductor substrate based on said collected light intensity. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein said logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to said movable stage to control disposition of said semiconductor substrate based on said collected light intensity. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising filtering light emanating from said surface of said semiconductor substrate in at least one wavelength indicative of said at least one material. 18. The method of claim 12, further comprising transmitting said signal to a programmed computer for processing. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: sequentially positioning additional semiconductor substrates to receive said light directed through said first optical port onto a surface of each of said additional semiconductor substrates; and sequentially collecting light emanating from said surface of each of said additional semiconductor substrates. 20. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining a presence of said at least one material by detecting a selected wavelength of light emanating from said surface of said semiconductor substrate, said selected wavelength of light being characteristic of said at least one material. 21. An apparatus for in situ monitoring of stripping material from a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a stripping chamber configured for stripping material from a semiconductor substrate; a first optical port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into said stripping chamber onto a surface location of said semiconductor substrate; a source for producing said beam of high energy light, wherein said source is selected from a group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp; a second optical port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from said surface location as a secondary light beam to exit said stripping chamber; and a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving said secondary light beam from said stripping chamber and measuring an intensity thereof. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a stage for positioning said semiconductor substrate with said stripping chamber. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of said semiconductor substrate to and from said stripping chamber. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a plasma generator. 25. An apparatus for in situ monitoring of stripping material from a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a stripping chamber configured for stripping material from a semiconductor substrate; a movable stage for positioning said semiconductor substrate in said stripping chamber; a first optical port for allowing a beam of high energy light to enter into said stripping chamber onto a surface location of said semiconductor substrate; a second optical port for allowing fluoresced and/or reflected light from said surface location as a secondary light beam to exit said stripping chamber; a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving said secondary light beam from said stripping chamber and measuring an intensity thereof, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus is configured for generating an electronic signal representative of said measured light intensity; and a logic circuit for processing said electronic signal. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a photo-multiplier tube. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said logic circuit comprises a computer programmed to receive and record said light intensity measurement. 28. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus for introduction and removal of said semiconductor substrate to and from said stripping chamber, wherein said automated substrate handling apparatus is configured to move said semiconductor substrate at least partially in response to said electronic signal. 29. A method for detecting a presence of at least one material on a surface of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: providing a stripping chamber for stripping at least one material from a semiconductor substrate, said stripping chamber comprising a first optical port for allowing light to enter said stripping chamber and a second optical port for allowing said light to exit said stripping chamber; providing a light source; directing light from said light source to enter said stripping chamber through said first optical port and onto said surface of said semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from said surface of said semiconductor substrate through said second optical port; generating a signal indicative of an intensity of said collected light; and transmitting said signal to a logic circuit for processing, wherein said logic circuit generates an instruction for transmission to a movable stage to control disposition of said semiconductor substrate based on said collected light intensity. 