A robot operation teaching method and apparatus includes a three-dimensional measuring system that can measure spatial coordinates corresponding to points designated on camera images, a display able to show a space image from a camera or cameras overlaid by an image of a geometric model corresponding to the space image. A pointing device having at least two degrees of freedom is used to define work trajectories by preparing, in a model space, simple geometric elements corresponding to the actual space image. By using parametric modelling to supply definitions of geometric elements in advance, the geometric elements can be adapted for other tasks by modifying some of the geometric element assignments and parameters associated with the definitions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot operation teaching method comprising: using a three-dimensional measuring system for measuring spatial coordinates corresponding to points designated on camera images, a display able to display an actual space image obtained by a camera or cameras with an overlay of a geometric model image corresponding to the actual space image, and a pointing device having at least two degrees of freedom to enable an operator to prepare in a model space simple geometric elements corresponding to the actual space image, thereby defining work trajectories; wherein by using parametric modelling to supply definitions of geometric elements in advance, geometric elements for individual situations are produced by modifying a portion of geometric element assignments and parameters associated with the definitions. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising storing the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling in a database so that the geometric elements can be selected from a menu to be instantiated. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 5. The method according to claim 2, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising a drag-and-drop operation to enable arbitrary geometric elements associated with the definitions of the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling to be replaced by other geometric elements. 7. The method according to claim 2, further comprising a drag-and-drop operation to enable arbitrary geometric elements associated with the definitions of the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling to be replaced by other geometric elements. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 10. The method according to claim 7, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 11. The method according to claim 3, further comprising translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 13. The method according to claim 6, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 15. The method according to claim 14, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising using a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 17. A robot operation teaching apparatus comprising: a three-dimensional measuring system capable of measuring spatial coordinates corresponding to points designated on camera images; a display that displays an actual space image obtained by a camera or cameras overlaid by a geometric model image of geometric elements corresponding to the actual space image; a pointing device for selecting a location; and means for using parametric modelling to supply definitions of the geometric elements; the apparatus being able to produce geometric elements adapted for each situation by modification of a portion of geometric element assignments and parameters associated with the definitions. 18. The apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising a database in which the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling can be stored and a menu from which the stored geometric elements can be selected to be instantiated. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising means using a drag-and-drop operation to enable arbitrary geometric elements associated with the definition of the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling to be replaced by other geometric elements. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising means for translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 21. The apparatus according to claim 20, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 22. The apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 23. The apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising means for translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 24. The apparatus according to claim 23, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 25. The apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 26. The apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising means using a drag-and-drop operation to enable arbitrary geometric elements associated with the definition of the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling to be replaced by other geometric elements. 27. The apparatus according to claim 26, further comprising means for translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 28. The apparatus according to claim 27, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 29. The apparatus according to claim 26, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 30. The apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising means for translating, rotating or aligning geometric elements associated with the geometric elements defined by the parametric modelling relative to arbitrary reference geometric elements to enable the geometric elements originally defined by parametric modelling to be redefined. 31. The apparatus according to claim 30, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 32. The apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising a teaching interface comprising a portable information terminal that includes a display for displaying two-dimensional information and a pointing device for inputting two-dimensional input, and that can exchange information with another device by wireless communication. 