An automated detection system includes a robotic fluid handling system for performing a plurality of assays; a detection system for imaging the assays as they are performed; and a computer control, data acquisition, and data analysis system for controlling the operation of the fluid-handling and detection system and for collecting and analyzing imaging data. The automated detection system comprises a pipettor for simultaneously distributing a predetermined amount of a liquid and a signal-generating element to each of the plurality of wells; an excitation source for simultaneously exposing the wells to excitation radiation; a detector for simultaneously detecting signal emitted from each of the wells over a period of time comprising a single imager for optically imaging the plurality of wells simultaneously; and computerized controller for simultaneously coordinating the pipettor, the excitation source, and the detector. Further, a method for performing simultaneous assays includes the steps of simultaneously distributing a predetermined amount of a liquid solution to each of a plurality of samples, simultaneously exposing the wells to excitation radiation, simultaneously detecting signals emitted from the wells using a detector comprising a single imaging means, and simultaneously controlling and coordinating the distribution, excitation, and detection using a computerized controller.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a multi-well plate containing a plurality of wells distributed throughout at least a portion of said multi-well plate, said method comprising the steps of: distributing a predetermined amount of a liquid to a number of said plurality of wells; projecting excitation radiation uniformly onto the portion of said multi-well plate throughout which the plurality of wells are distributed, thereby simultaneously and uniformly illuminating both said plurality of wells and the portion that is disposed between each of said plurality of wells; receiving an image of fluorescence emitted from said plurality of wells simultaneously over a predetermined period of time; and processing fluorescence data from the image. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of wells are exposed to a plurality of excitation wavelengths and the fluorescence emitted by said plurality of wells is determined upon excitation at each of said plurality of wavelengths. 3. The method according to claim 1, further including the step of creating a time series of pixel images of each of said plurality of wells to determine the fluorescence of each of said plurality of wells over said predetermined period of time. 4. The method of claim 1, further including the step of a computerized control means simultaneously controlling and coordinating said steps of distributing, projecting, receiving, and processing. 5. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of signal-based assays, each of said plurality of assays performed in one of a plurality of wells on a multi-well plate, said method comprising the steps of: distributing a predetermined amount of a liquid to a number of said plurality of wells; receiving an image of emissions emitted from said plurality of wells simultaneously over a predetermined period of time, the image comprising an entire view of each of the plurality of wells; and processing emissions data from the received image. 6. The method according to claim 5, further including the step of creating a time series of pixel images of each of said plurality of wells to determine an amount of optical emissions of said reaction in each of said plurality of wells over said predetermined period of time. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said optical emissions are fluorescent emissions. 8. The method according to claim 6, wherein said optical emissions are luminescent emissions. 9. The method according to claim 5, wherein said emmissions are radioactive emissions. 10. The method of claim 5, further including the step of a computerized control means simultaneously controlling and coordinating said steps of distributing, receiving, and processing. 11. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of drug screening assays, each of said plurality of assays performed in one of a plurality of wells on a multi-well plate, said method comprising the steps of: providing a number of said plurality of wells with viable cells having functional ion channels and/or receptors which, when activated, directly or indirectly cause a detectable change in a concentration of a predetermined ion in said viable cells, wherein said viable cells contain an amount of an ion-sensitive indicator sufficient to detect a change, if any, in said concentration of said predetermined ion; distributing a predetermined amount of an ion channel-activating or receptor-activating compound being tested for its ability to activate said ion channel or receptor to a number of said plurality of wells; receiving an image of optical emissions emitted by said ion-sensitive indicator in said plurality of wells simultaneously over a predetermined period of time, the image comprising an entire view of each of the plurality of wells; creating a time series of pixel images of said plurality of wells to determine an amount of said optical emissions of said ion-sensitive indicator in each of said plurality of wells over said predetermined period of time; and processing optical emissions data from the image. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein said optical emissions are fluorescent emissions and said ion-sensitive indicator is an ion-sensitive fluorescent indicator. 13. The method of claim 11, further including the step of a computerized control means simultaneously controlling and coordinating said steps of distributing, receiving, and processing. 14. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of drug screening assays, each of said plurality of assays performed in one of a plurality of wells on a multi-well plate, said method comprising the steps of: providing a number of said plurality of wells with viable cells having functional ion channels and/or receptors which, when activated, are capable of directly or indirectly causing a detectable change in a concentration of a predetermined ion in said viable cells, wherein said viable cells contain an amount of an ion-sensitive indicator sufficient to detect a change, if any, in said concentration of said predetermined ion; first distributing a first predetermined amount of a known ion channel-activating or receptor-activating compound to a number of said plurality of wells; second distributing a second predetermined amount of an ion channel-inhibiting or receptor-inhibiting compound, said ion channel-inhibiting or receptor-inhibiting compound added to said number of said plurality of wells prior to or simultaneously with said ion channel-activating or receptor-activating compound; receiving an image of optical emissions emitted by said ion-sensitive indicator in said plurality of wells over a predetermined period of time, the image comprising an entire view of each of said plurality of wells; creating a time series of pixel images of said plurality of wells to determine an amount of said optical emissions of said ion-sensitive indicator in each of said plurality of wells over said predetermined period of time; and processing optical emissions data from the image. 15. The method of claim 14, further including the step of a computerized control means simultaneously controlling and coordinating said steps of first distributing, second distributing, receiving, and processing. 16. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a multi-well plate containing a plurality of wells distributed throughout at least a portion of said multi-well plate, the method comprising the steps of: projecting excitation radiation uniformly onto the portion of the plate throughout which the plurality of wells are distributed, thereby simultaneously and uniformly illuminating both said plurality of wells and the portion that is disposed between each of said plurality of wells; and receiving an image of fluorescence emitted from the plurality of wells simultaneously and continuously over a predetermined period of time. 17. The method of claim 16, where the excitation radiation is projected as a collimated beam. 18. A method for scheduling and performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a plurality of plates each including a plurality of wells, the method comprising the steps of: storing data representing at least first and second tracks and at least one critical point at which the first and second tracks are tied together in time, each of the first and second tracks defining a set of assay operations in time, at least a portion of the set of assay operations of the first track to be performed simultaneously with the second track; and performing at least a portion of the sets of assay operations on at least one of the plates such that a portion of the set of assay operations of the second track defined prior to the at least one critical point is finished before beginning a portion of the set of assay operations of the first track defined after the at least one critical point. 19. The method of claim 18 further including the step of determining a total time to run all of the sets of assay operations of the first and second tracks. 20. The method of claim 19 further including the step of rearranging at least a portion of the sets of assay operations of at least one of the first and second tracks according to the total time to run all of the sets of assay operations of the first and second tracks. 21. The method of claim 18 further including the step of defining the first and second tracks using a graphic user interface. 22. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a plate containing a plurality of wells, the method comprising the steps of: detecting fluorescence emitted from each of the plurality of wells; and displaying in real or pseudo real time a graphical representation of the fluorescence emitted from each of the plurality of wells, the graphical representation indicating an arrangement in the plate of the plurality of wells. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of displaying includes displaying the graphical representation including a plurality of regions each having a particular brightness depending upon the fluorescence of at least one of the plurality of wells. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of displaying includes displaying the graphical representation including a plurality of regions each having a particular color or a particular pseudo-color depending upon the fluorescence of at least one of the plurality of wells. 25. A method for simultaneously performing a plurality of fluorescence assays using a plate including a plurality of wells distributed throughout at least a portion of the plate, the method comprising the steps of: alternately projecting a first excitation radiation having a first wavelength and a second excitation radiation having a second wavelength uniformly onto the portion of the plate throughout which the plurality of wells are distributed, thereby simultaneously and uniformly illuminating both the plurality of wells and the portion that is disposed between each of the plurality of wells; detecting a first fluorescence emitted from each of the plurality of wells in response to the first excitation radiation and a second fluorescence emitted from each of the plurality of wells in response to the second excitation radiation to generate data representing an amount of the first and second fluorescence for each of the plurality of wells; and dividing the amount of the first fluorescence of at least one of the wells by the amount of the second fluorescence of the at least one of the wells to generate a test result. 