A method of stretch forming an aluminum metal sheet that includes the steps of placing an aluminum metal sheet in a hot forming tool, forming a shaped part at an elevated temperature, removing the hot shaped part from the forming tool, and thereafter transferring the hot shaped part to a cooling fixture. The transfer and removal steps are performed at a speed that is variable based on a correlation of the temperature and strength of the aluminum metal sheet and the speed at which the hot shaped part may be transferred without distortion of its shape due to inertia.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of stretch forming an aluminum metal sheet comprising the steps of: a) placing an aluminum metal sheet in a hot forming tool; b) forming a shaped part at an elevated temperature such that the shaped part is hot; c) removing the hot shaped part from the hot forming tool as it is being cooled from said elevated temperature; d) transferring the hot shaped part to a cooling fixture; the transfer step being performed at a variable speed based on a correlation of the temperature and strength of the aluminum metal sheet and the speed at which the hot shaped part may be transferred without distortion of its shape. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of removing the hot shaped part further includes the step of cooling the hot shaped part prior to removing the hot shaped part from the hot forming tool. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of cooling the hot shaped part is performed by separating the hot shaped part from the hot forming tool. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of cooling the hot shaped part is performed by applying forced air through the hot forming tool onto the hot shaped part. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of cooling the hot shaped part is completed in a time period resulting in a maximum strength of the hot shaped part for an overall cycle time of the hot forming tool. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the hot shaped part is removed from the hot forming tool at a speed such that the shape of the hot shaped part is not distorted. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the hot shaped part is removed from the hot forming tool at a speed that is determined by the temperature and strength of the hot shaped part as a function of time. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the hot shaped part is removed from the hot forming tool utilizing a removal device formed of a low density material having a high section modulus. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the low density material has a deflection of less than 1 millimeter at an operating temperature of the hot forming tool. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the low density material is selected from the group consisting of aluminum and titanium. 11. The method of claim 8 in which cooling air is blown on the hot shaped part by said removal device. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein the removal tool includes gripping elements for engaging the hot shaped part. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the gripping elements are formed of a lightweight, heat resistant material. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the material of the gripping element is selected from the group consisting of: aluminum, titanium, graphite and boron nitride. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the gripping elements further include a pneumatic mechanism for actuating the gripping elements from engaged and disengaged positions with respect to the hot shaped part. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the gripping elements engage the hot shaped part normal to a surface of the hot shaped part to prevent twisting of the hot shaped part. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein the gripping elements are positioned symmetrically with respect to an axis of a wrist of a robot associated with the removal device. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the hot shaped part includes contact points that are located on the part such that the hot shaped part is balanced when the gripping elements engage the contact points of the hot shaped part. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the hot forming tool includes notches formed therein, the notches placed such that there is sufficient material of the hot shaped part exposed at its contact points for facilitating engagement of the gripping elements with the contact points. 20. A method of stretch forming an aluminum metal sheet comprising the steps of: a) placing an aluminum metal sheet in a hot forming tool; b) forming a shaped part at an elevated temperature such that the shaped part is hot; c) removing the hot shaped part from the hot forming tool as it is being cooled from said elevated temperature; d) transferring the hot shaped part to a cooling fixture; the removal step being performed at a speed and utilizing a removal device such that the shape of the hot shaped part is not distorted. 