A system and method for analyzing a surface. The system includes a computer including a CPU and a memory medium operable to store programs executable by the CPU to perform the method. The method may include: 1) receiving data describing an n-dimensional surface defined in a bounded n-dimensional space, where the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via embedding function x( ), and where m>n; 2) determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; 3) computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the diffeomorphism f; 4) selecting points, e.g., a Low Discrepancy Sequence, in the n-dimensional space; 5) mapping the points onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating mapped points on the surface; 6) sampling the surface using at least a subset of the mapped points to generate samples of the surface; and 7) analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for analyzing a surface, comprising: receiving data describing an n-dimensional surface, wherein the surface is defined in a bounded n-dimensional space, wherein the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a plurality of points in the n-dimensional space; mapping the plurality of points onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a mapped plurality of points on the surface; sampling the surface using at least a subset of the mapped plurality of points to generate samples of the surface; and analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of points comprises a Low Discrepancy Sequence; wherein the mapped plurality of points comprises a mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating output comprising the mapped plurality of points in response to said mapping. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said sampling comprises measuring data values at the surface at a plurality of points in the mapped plurality of points. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the bounded n-dimensional space comprises a unit n-cube. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein n=2, and wherein the unit n-cube comprises a unit square. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein n=3, and wherein the unit n-cube comprises a unit cube. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein n>3, and wherein the unit n-cube comprises a hyper-cube of dimensionality greater than 3. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface comprises a surface of an object; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the surface to determine one or more characteristics of the object. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface comprises an n-dimensional volume; wherein said sampling comprises sampling the volume to generate samples of the volume; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the volume to determine one or more characteristics of the volume. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the volume to determine a motion path of a sensor in the volume. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface comprises an image; wherein said sampling comprises sampling the image to generate samples of the image; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the image to determine characteristics of the image. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface comprises a Riemannian manifold; and wherein the received data comprises a Riemannian metric for the surface. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface comprises a six-dimensional space describing degrees of freedom of a robotic arm; and wherein the six dimensions correspond respectively to three positional degrees of freedom and three directional degrees of freedom. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said robotic arm comprises a directional sensor; wherein said sampling comprises measuring a vector field at one or more of the mapped plurality of points with the directional sensor. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface comprises a multi-dimensional space describing degrees of freedom for first and second motion stages; wherein the first and second motion stages couple respectively to first and second optical fibers, wherein a laser beam is directed through the first optical fiber, and wherein said sampling comprises measuring the laser beam intensity through the second optical fiber at one or more of the mapped plurality of points, the method further comprising: moving one or both of the first and second motion stages until the measured laser beam intensity indicates that the optical fibers are substantially aligned. 17. A method for analyzing a surface, comprising: receiving data describing a surface, wherein the surface is defined in a bounded n-dimensional space, wherein the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a Low Discrepancy Sequence in the n-dimensional space; mapping the Low Discrepancy Sequence onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence on the surface; and sampling the surface using at least a subset of the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence to generate samples of the surface; and analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the surface comprises a surface of an object; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the surface to determine one or more characteristics of the object. 19. A method for generating a Low Discrepancy Sequence on an abstract surface, comprising: selecting an abstract surface S, wherein S is defined in a unit n-cube, wherein S is embedded in R.sup.m via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; determining a diffeomorphism f of the unit n-cube; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a Low Discrepancy Sequence in the unit n-cube; mapping the Low Discrepancy Sequence onto the embedded abstract surface S using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a Low Discrepancy Sequence on the abstract surface S; and generating output comprising the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: sampling the abstract surface S using at least a subset of the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said sampling comprises making a measurement at one or more points in the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein n=2, and wherein the n-cube comprises a unit square. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein n=3, and wherein the n-cube comprises a unit cube. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein n>3, and wherein the n-cube comprises a hyper-cube of dimensionality greater than 3. 25. A system for analyzing a surface, comprising: a sensor; and a computer which is operable to couple to said sensor, said computer comprising: a CPU; a memory medium which is operable to store program instructions; and an input for receiving data describing an n-dimensional surface, wherein the surface is defined in a bounded n-dimensional space, wherein the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; wherein the CPU is operable to execute said program instructions to perform: determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a plurality of points in the n-dimensional space; mapping the plurality of points onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a mapped plurality of points on the surface; wherein said computer and said sensor are operable to perform: sampling the surface using at least a subset of the mapped plurality of points to generate samples of the surface; and wherein the CPU is further operable to execute said program instructions to perform: analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the plurality of points comprises a Low Discrepancy Sequence; wherein the mapped plurality of points comprises a mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein the CPU is further operable to execute said program instructions to perform: generating output comprising the mapped plurality of points. 28. The system of claim 25, wherein the bounded n-dimensional space comprises a unit n-cube. 29. The system of claim 25, wherein the surface comprises a surface of an object; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the surface to determine one or more characteristics of the object. 30. A system for analyzing a surface, comprising: a sensor; and a computer which is operable to couple to said sensor, said computer comprising: a CPU; a memory medium which is operable to store program instructions; and an input for receiving data describing an n-dimensional surface, wherein the surface is defined in a bounded n-dimensional space, wherein the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; wherein the CPU is operable to execute said program instructions to perform: determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a Low Discrepancy Sequence in the n-dimensional space; and mapping the Low Discrepancy Sequence onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence on the surface; wherein said computer and said sensor are operable to perform: sampling the surface using at least a subset of the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence to generate samples of the surface; and wherein the CPU is further operable to execute said program instructions to perform: analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the surface comprises a surface of an object; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the surface to determine one or more characteristics of the object. 32. A system for generating a Low Discrepancy Sequence on an abstract surface, comprising: a computer which is operable to couple to said sensor, said computer comprising: a CPU; a memory medium which is operable to store program instructions; and an input for receiving data describing an n-dimensional abstract surface, wherein the surface is defined in a unit n-cube, wherein the surface is embedded in R.sup.m via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; wherein the CPU is operable to execute said program instructions to perform: determining a diffeomorphism f of the unit n-cube; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a Low Discrepancy Sequence in the unit n-cube; mapping the Low Discrepancy Sequence onto the embedded abstract surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a Low Discrepancy Sequence on the abstract surface; and generating output comprising the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 33. A memory medium containing program instructions for analyzing a surface, wherein said program instructions are executable to perform: receiving data describing an n-dimensional surface, wherein the surface is defined in a bounded n-dimensional space, wherein the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a plurality of points in the n-dimensional space; mapping the plurality of points onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a mapped plurality of points on the surface; sampling the surface using at least a sub set of the mapped plurality of points to generate samples of the surface; and analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the plurality of points comprises a Low Discrepancy Sequence; wherein the mapped plurality of points comprises a mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 35. A memory medium containing program instructions for analyzing a surface, wherein said program instructions are executable to perform: receiving data describing a surface, wherein the surface is defined in (comprised in?) a bounded n-dimensional space, wherein the surface is embedded in an m-dimensional real space via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; determining a diffeomorphism f of the n-dimensional space; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a Low Discrepancy Sequence in the n-dimensional space; mapping the Low Discrepancy Sequence onto the surface using x(f.sup.-1) thereby generating a mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence on the surface; and sampling the surface using at least a subset of the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence to generate samples of the surface; and analyzing the samples of the surface to determine characteristics of the surface. 36. The memory medium of claim 35, wherein the surface comprises a surface of an object; wherein said analyzing comprises analyzing the samples of the surface to determine one or more characteristics of the object. 37. A memory medium containing program instructions for generating a Low Discrepancy Sequence on an abstract surface, wherein said program instructions are executable to perform: selecting an abstract surface S, wherein S is defined in a unit n-cube, wherein S is embedded in R.sup.m via an embedding function x( ), and wherein m>n; determining a diffeomorphism f of the unit n-cube; computing the inverse transform f.sup.-1 of the determined diffeomorphism f; selecting a Low Discrepancy Sequence in the unit n-cube; mapping the Low Discrepancy Sequence onto the embedded abstract surface S using x(f.sup.-1), thereby generating a Low Discrepancy Sequence on the abstract surface S; and generating output comprising the mapped Low Discrepancy Sequence. 