A conveyor for transporting parts includes a first electrical switch, a second electrical switch and an automatically movable stop. In another aspect of the present invention, an accumulating power roll conveyor system has two or more independently driven zones. Yet another aspect of the present invention provides for a part physically contacting against and actuating a switch as the part is located in a zone corresponding with the switch.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An accumulating power roll conveyor comprising: a first zone including a first set of rollers, a first actuator operably driving the first rollers, and a first part sensing member electrically connected to the first actuator; a second zone including a second set of rollers, a second actuator operably driving the second rollers, and a second part sensing member electrically connected to the second actuator; a third zone including a third set of rollers, a third actuator operably driving the third rollers, and a third part sensing member electrically connected to the third actuator; and a control circuit controlling the part sensing members and actuators based only on analog signals free of a programmable logic controller and free of a microprocessor; the second zone being located downstream of the first zone and the third zone being located downstream of the second zone. 2. The conveyor of claim 1 further comprising: first, second and third automatically movable stops located in the first, second and third zones, respectively; the first, second and third actuators being energized and the first and second stops being retracted to non-part stopping positions if the first, second and third part sensing members indicate that no part is substantially present in the first, second and third zones; the first and second actuators being energized, the third actuator being deenergized, the first stop being retracted, and the second and third stops being advanced to part stopping positions if the third part sensing member indicates that a part is present in the third zone, and the first and second part sensing members do not indicate substantial presence of parts in their respective zones; the third actuator being deenergized, the third stop being advanced, the second actuator being deenergized, the second stop being advanced, the first actuator being energized and the first stop being advanced if a part physically contacts against the third part sensing member, the part physically contacts against a second part sensing member and no part physically contacts against the first part sensing member; the third actuator being deenergized, the third stop being advanced, the second actuator being deenergized and the second stop being advanced, the first actuator being deenergized and the first stop being advanced if a part physically contacts against each of the part sensing members; and the second and third actuators being energized and the second stop being retracted if the third part sensing member is not physically contacted by a part, the second part sensing member is being physically contacted by a part and the first part sensing member is physically contacted by a part. 3. The conveyor of claim 1 wherein the part sensing member is an optical sensor. 4. An accumulating power roll conveyor comprising: a first zone including a first set of rollers, a first actuator operably driving the first rollers, and a first part sensing member electrically connected to the first actuator; a second zone including a second set of rollers, a second actuator operably driving the second rollers, and a second part sensing member electrically connected to the second actuator; a third zone including a third set of rollers, a third actuator operably driving the third rollers, and a third part sensing member electrically connected to the third actuator; a control circuit controlling the part sensing members and actuators based only on analog signals; the second zone being located downstream of the first zone and the third zone being located downstream of the second zone; a diagonally sensing zone clear sensor located in each zone and electrically connected to each corresponding actuator; each part sensing member transversely sensing a part adjacent a downstream end of the corresponding zone. 5. The conveyor of claim 4 wherein the analog electric circuit is hard-wired and free of a programmable logic controller. 6. The conveyor of claim 1 wherein the actuators are electric motors. 7. An accumulating power roll conveyor comprising: a first zone including a first set of rollers, a first actuator operably driving the first rollers, and a first pail sensing member electrically connected to the first actuator; a second zone including a second set of rollers, a second actuator operably driving the second rollers, and a second part sensing member electrically connected to the second actuator; a third zone including a third set of rollers, a third actuator operably driving the third rollers, and a third pail sensing member electrically connected to the third actuator; and a control circuit controlling the part sensing members and actuators based only on analog signals; the second zone being located downstream of the first zone and the third zone being located downstream of the second zone; wherein the part sensing members are mechanical switches which are physically contactable by a passing conveyed part. 8. The conveyor of claim 1 wherein adjacent parts are longitudinally separated from each other by controlling energization and deenergization of the actuators and rollers in adjacent of the zones. 9. An accumulating power roll conveyor comprising: a first zone including a first set of rollers, a first actuator operably driving the first rollers, and a first part sensing member electrically connected to the first actuator; a second zone including a second set of rollers, a second actuator operably driving the second rollers, and a second part sensing member electrically connected to the second actuator; a third zone including a third set of rollers, a third actuator operably driving the third rollers, and a third part sensing member electrically connected to the third actuator; and a control circuit controlling the part sensing members and actuators based only on analog signals; the second zone being located downstream of the first zone and the third zone being located downstream of the second zone; wherein adjacent parts are longitudinally separated from each other by controlling energization and deenergization of the actuators and rollers in adjacent of the zones; and wherein adjacent parts are destacked from each other by controlling energization and deenergization of the actuators and rollers in adjacent of the zones, if more than one of the parts is inadvertently moving in a single one of the zones. 10. The conveyor of claim 9 wherein at least one of the part sensing members is an optical sensor. 11. The conveyor or claim 10 further comprising: a diagonally sensing zone clear sensor located in each zone and electrically connected to each corresponding actuator; and each part sensing member transversely sensing a part adjacent a downstream end of the corresponding zone. 12. The conveyor of claim 9 wherein the analog electric circuit is hard-wired and free of a programmable logic controller and free of a microprocessor. 13. The conveyor of claim 9 wherein the actuators are electric motors. 14. The conveyor of claim 9 wherein the part sensing members are mechanical switches which are physically contactable by a passing conveyed part. 15. An accumulating power roll conveyor for transporting parts, the conveyor comprising: an actuator system; part transporting surfaces operably driven by the actuator system, the surfaces being separated into at least a first zone and a second zone, the surface in the first zone being driven mechanically independently from the surface in the second zone; a first electrical switch located adjacent the first zone, the first switch being adapted for physical contact by one of the parts if the part is present in the first zone; a second electrical switch located adjacent the second zone, the second switch being adapted for physical contact by at least one of the parts if the part is present in the second zone; and a first automatically movable stop electrically connected to the first and second switches, the first stop being adapted to physically abut against and stop movement of one of the parts from moving from the first zone to the second zone if the second switch indicates that a second of the parts is present in the second zone; the stop being automatically retractable to allow the first part to be transported from the first zone to the second zone if the first switch indicates that the first part is substantially present in the first zone and the second switch indicates that none of the parts are substantially present in the second zone. 16. The conveyor of claim 15 further comprising: the surfaces being further separated into a third zone downstream of the second zone which is downstream of the first zone; and a third switch located adjacent the third zone, the third switch being adapted for physical contact by one of the parts if the part is present in the third zone; the actuator system being energized to drive the surfaces in the first, second and third zones if the second and third switches indicate that none of the parts are substantially present in the second and third zones respectively, and if the first switch indicates that one of the parts is present in the first zone. 17. The conveyor of claim 16 further comprising: a second automatically movable stop electrically connected to the second and third switches; the second stop being adapted to physically abut against and stop movement of the second part from moving from the second zone to the third zone if the third switch indicates that a third of the parts is present in the third zone. 18. The conveyor of claim 17 wherein the first and second stops are automatically retracted and the first, second and third surfaces are automatically driven to move one of the parts from the first zone, to the second zone and then to the third zone, if the second and third switches indicate that none of the parts are substantially present in the second and third zones. 19. The conveyor of claim 15 wherein the first switch causes the actuator system to drive the surface in the first zone if the second switch indicates that none of the parts are substantially present in the second zone. 20. The conveyor of claim 19 wherein the first switch causes the actuator system to discontinue driving the surface in the first zone if the second switch indicates that one of the parts is present in the second zone. 21. The conveyor of claim 15 wherein the actuator system includes: a first electric motor and a first transmission coupled to the surface in the first zone; and a second electric motor and a second transmission coupled to the surface in the second zone. 22. The conveyor of claim 15 wherein the parts are automotive vehicle powertrain parts operably transported by the surfaces. 23. The conveyor of claim 15 further comprising an analog electrical circuit connecting and controlling the actuator system, the switches and stop by use of direct analog signals and free of a programmable logic controller. 24. The conveyor of claim 15 wherein the surfaces include rotatable rollers. 25. The conveyor of claim 15 further comprising a part inspection station located at the first zone. 26. The conveyor of claim 15 further comprising a part unloading station located at the second zone. 27. The conveyor of claim 15 further comprising a second automatically movable stop adapted to physically abut against and stop movement of the second part when the second part is present in the second zone. 28. An accumulating power roll conveyor for transporting parts, the conveyor comprising: a first part present switch; a second part present switch located downstream of the first switch; a third part present switch located downstream of the second switch; a first movable stop located downstream of the first switch and upstream of the second switch; a second movable stop located downstream of the second switch and upstream of the third switch; physical contact against the third switch operably causing the second stop to be automatically placed in a part stopping position, withdrawal of the physical contact against the third switch operably causing the second stop to be withdrawn from the part stopping position; physical contact against the second switch operably causing the first stop to be automatically placed in a part stopping position, withdrawal of the physical contact against the second switch operably causing the first stop to be withdrawn from the part stopping position. 29. The conveyor of claim 28 further comprising: a first actuator system; a first part transporting surface operably driven by the first actuator system, the first surface being located substantially upstream of the first stop; a second actuator system energizable mechanically independent of the first actuator system; and a second part transporting surface operably driven by the second actuator system, the second surface being located substantially between the first and second stops. 30. The conveyor of claim 29 further comprising: a third stop operable to physically abut against at least one of the parts; a third actuator system energizable mechanically independent of the first and second actuator systems; and a third part transporting surface operably driven by the third actuator system, the third surface being located substantially between the second and third stops. 31. The conveyor of claim 29 wherein the first and second actuator systems each include an electric motor, and the first and second part transporting surfaces each include a set of rotatable rollers. 32. The conveyor of claim 29 wherein the first and second actuator systems cause the part to move from the first zone to the second zone, if the first switch is physically contacted to indicate that at least one of the parts is substantially present on the first part transporting surface, and the second switch has not been physically contacted by at least one of the parts to indicate that a part is not substantially present on the second part transporting surface. 33. The conveyor of claim 29 wherein the first actuator system is energized, the second actuator system is deenergized and the first stop is advanced to its part stopping position if the first switch does not indicate presence of a part in an adjacent first zone and the second switch indicates presence of a part in an adjacent second zone. 34. The conveyor of claim 28 wherein at least one of the stops includes a solenoid. 35. The conveyor of claim 34 wherein at least one of the stops includes a shot pin and a linkage mechanism, and the linkage mechanism movably couples the shot pin to the solenoid. 36. The conveyor of claim 28 further comprising: a set of rollers; and an actuator operably driving the rollers; the actuator remaining energized for a predetermined period of time before automatic deenergization after the corresponding switch is physically contacted by one of the parts if the corresponding stop is located in its part stopping position, in order to ensure physical contact of a part against the corresponding stop in the event that the part has rebounded upstream after initial contact with the corresponding stop. 37. The conveyor of claim 28 wherein at least one of the switches is depressed at or below a part transporting plane when physically depressed by contact with at least one of the parts. 38. The conveyor of claim 28 wherein at least one of the switches includes an annular member adapted for rotatable contact by a moving one of the parts. 39. The conveyor of claim 28 wherein the switches and stops substantially define separately energizable zones each having accumulating power rollers. 40. The conveyor of claim 28 wherein the switches and stops are part of an analog electrical circuit connecting and controlling the switches and stop by use of direct analog signals, and free of a programmable logic controller and free of a microprocessor. 41. An accumulating power roll conveyor control system for conveying parts, the control system comprising: a first analog circuit including a first optical switch, a second switch and a first roller actuator; a second analog circuit including a third optical switch, a fourth switch and a second roller actuator; and a third analog circuit including a fifth optical switch, a sixth switch and a third roller actuator; wherein if the first switch indicates that the presence of a leading one of the parts has been sensed, and if the second switch does not indicate that the leading part is present, then the first actuator is energized; wherein if the fourth switch indicates the presence of a trailing one of the parts then the second actuator is deenergized; and wherein if the fourth switch indicates the presence of the leading part, and if the second switch indicates the presence of the trailing part, then the first and second actuators are deenergized. 42. The control system of claim 41 wherein the actuators are electric motors, and at lest one of the circuits and at least one of actuators act to strip adjacent parts if more than one of the parts is inadvertently present in the same zone. 43. The control system of claim 41 wherein at least one of the second, fourth and sixth switches are optical sensors. 44. The control system of claim 41 wherein at least one of the second, fourth and sixth switches include a mechanical switch member physically contactable by the parts. 45. The control system of claim 41 wherein adjacent of the parts are longitudinally separated from each other by controlling energization and deenergization of adjacent of the actuators. 46. The control system of claim 41 wherein the actuators operably cause actuation of at least three adjacent conveying zones, each having sets of rotatable rollers which directly contact against the parts. 47. A method of operating an accumulating power roll conveyor having at least three zones with each zone having a set of rollers, an actuator, a switch and a stop, the method comprising: (a) energizing the first, second and third actuators, and rotating the corresponding rollers, if the first, second and third switches indicate that no part is substantially present in the first, second and third zones; (b) automatically moving the first and second stops to allow passage of parts past the first and second stops if the first, second and third switches indicate that no part is substantially present in the first, second and third zones; (c) energizing the first and second actuators, and rotating the corresponding rollers, if the third switch indicates that a part is present in the third zone, and the first and second switches do not indicate substantial presence of a part in the first and second zones; (d) moving the first stop to allow passage of parts past the first stop, if the third switch indicates that a part is present in the third zone, and the first and second switches do not indicate substantial presence of a part in the first and second zones; (e) moving the second and third stops to part stopping positions, if the third switch indicates that a part is present in the third zone, and the first and second switches do not indicate substantial presence of a part in the first and second zones; (f) deenergizing the first, second and third actuators if the first, second and third switches indicate presence of parts in the first, second and third zones; (g) placing the first, second and third stops in part stopping positions, if the first, second and third switches indicate presence of parts in the first, second and third zones; and (h) maintaining gaps between parts in adjacent zones. 48. The method of claim 47 wherein each switch indicates presence of a part within the corresponding zone when the part physically contacts against the switch. 49. The method of claim 47 wherein at least the first and second stops are automatically movable in response to energization of attached electromagnetic devices. 50. The method of claim 47 further comprising communicating between the switches, stops and actuator, in a direct analog manner. 51. The method of claim 47 wherein at least one of the switches is an optical sensor. 52. A method of operating an accumulating power roll conveyor having at least three zones, with each zone having a set of rollers, an actuator, a part present indicating member and a zone clear indicating member, the method comprising: (a) if a first switch indicates that the presence of a leading one of the parts has been sensed, and if a second switch does not indicate that the leading part is present, then a first actuator is energized; (b) if a third switch indicates the presence of a trailing one of the parts then a second actuator is deenergized; (c) if the third switch indicates the presence of the leading part, and if the second switch indicates the presence of the trailing part, then the first and second actuators are deenergized; (d) longitudinally separating adjacent of the parts from each other by controlling energization and deenergization of adjacent of the actuators; and (e) controlling the conveyor free of a programmable logic controller. 53. The method of claim 52 further comprising: (a) optically sensing presence of a part at a downstream location in the corresponding zone with each of the part present indicating members; and (b) optically sensing whether the part is present anywhere in the corresponding zone with each of the zone clear indicating members. 