A process for preweakening the inside of an automotive trim piece cover layer of various constructions by use of a laser beam so as to enable formation of an air bag deployment opening in the trim piece formed at the time the air bag deploys. The laser beam impinges the inside surface of the cover to form a groove scoring or spaced perforations to form a preweakening pattern. A robot arm may be used to move a laser generator so as to form the preweakening pattern. The laser beam can be controlled in accordance with sensed conditions to achieve accurate preweakening, and may also be used to trim substrate panels and to perform other cutting operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automotive interior trim piece adapted to cover an air bag installation when said trim piece is installed in an automotive vehicle, said trim piece preweakened along a predetermined pattern so as to enable formation of an air bag deployment opening in said trim piece by pressure exerted by an air bag deploying from an inner side of said trim piece, said trim piece having an inner surface and an outer surface, said outer surface visible when said trim piece is installed in an automotive vehicle, said outer surface extending smoothly and uninterruptedly across said preweakening pattern, said preweakening comprising a scoring penetrating into said inner surface and extending along said predetermined pattern, said scoring having a substantially regularly varying depth configuration along said predetermined pattern but not completely penetrating through to said outer surface; said varying depth configuration cut into said trim piece by pulsating operation of a laser beam so as to result in a series of partial penetrations spaced along said pattern. 2. The trim piece according to claim 1 wherein said trim piece includes a substrate layer and an overlying covering layer. 3. The trim piece according to claim 2 wherein said scoring extends completely through said substrate. 4. The trim piece according to claim 1 wherein said trim piece includes a substrate layer, an inner covering layer overlying said substrate and an outside covering layer overlying said inner covering layer. 5. The trim piece according to claim 4 wherein said inner covering layer overlying said substrate layer is a foam layer. 6. The trim piece according to claim 4 wherein said scoring extends completely through said substrate. 7. The trim piece according to claim 4 wherein said scoring extends partially into said inner covering layer. 8. The trim piece according to claim 4 wherein said scoring extends completely through said inner covering layer. 9. The trim piece according to claim 4 wherein said scoring extends partially into said outer covering layer without completely penetrating through to said outer surface. 10. The trim piece according to claim 1 wherein said trim piece includes a substrate layer with one or more covering layers, and wherein said scoring includes a continuous scoring completely penetrating said substrate layer and extending along said predetermined pattern. 11. A preweakened automotive interior trim piece for covering an air bag installation for an automotive vehicle, said preweakening extending in a predetermined pattern enabling formation of an air bag deployment opening in said trim piece by pressure exerted by deployment of said air bag mounted on the inside of said trim piece at the location of said pattern, said trim piece having a plurality of layers including an outer layer and an inner layer, said outer layer having an outer visible surface extending smoothly and uninterruptedly across said preweakening at said location, said preweakening comprising a groove extending in said pattern, but without completely penetrating the outer layer of the said trim piece, said groove having a substantially regularly varying depth bottom portion lying along said predetermined pattern cut into said trim piece by controlled operation of a laser beam resulting in a series of partial penetrations extending along said pattern. 12. The trim piece according to claim 11 wherein said regularly varying depth groove portion forms partial perforations in an inside surface of said outer layer. 