A remotely-controlled unmanned mobile device (UMD) adapted to function as a robot scout to enter and reconnoiter the site of a disaster and to communicate to a rescue mission information regarding conditions prevailing at the site, making it possible for the mission to decide on rescue measures appropriate to these conditions. The UMD is operable in either of two modes. In its air-mobility mode the UMD is able to vertically take off and land, to fly to the site and then hover thereover. In its ground-mobility mode, the UMD can walk on legs over difficult terrain and through wrecked structures and ruins. The UMD is provided with condition-sensitive sensors for gathering data regarding conditions prevailing at the site, and position-sensitive sensors for avoiding obstacles in the path of the walking UMD, thereby assuring safe mobility. Other sensors govern geo-referenced navigation and flight control functions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An unmanned mobile device remotely-controlled to function as a robot scout to enter a site of interest and to execute a mission; said device comprising: A. an aerodynamic flying assembly provided with retractable legs serving as landing gear when the assembly lands at the site and then functions as a ground locomotion mechanism; and B. remotely-controlled means that include processor means associated with the assembly which render it operable in at least one of the following modes that includes: 1) an air-mobility mode in which the assembly is capable of flying to the site and of hovering thereover, and is also capable of vertical take-off and landing at the site, the legs then being extended to function as landing gear, 2) a ground-mobility mode in which the extended legs then function as a walking mechanism to cause the assembly to move through the site; whereby the device is capable of executing the mission. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said area of interest is a disaster area and wherein said mission includes communicating to a rescue mission information regarding conditions prevailing at the site making it possible to then decide on rescue measures appropriate to these conditions. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein said walking mechanism is a legged locomotion mechanism, capable to displace the assembly. 4. A device as set forth in claim 1, in which the assembly includes a toroidal duct having a motor-driven propeller mounted therein which forces air to flow through the duct to propel the assembly. 5. A device as set forth in claim 4, in which the assembly is provided with adjustable vanes which are controlled to establish the flight of the assembly. 6. A device as set forth in claim 4, in which the propeller is rotated by a battery-powered dc motor. 7. A device as set forth in claim 4, in which the duct is fabricated of a material having a high strength-to-weight ratio. 8. A device as set forth in claim 1, in which each of said legs is formed by a lower link pivotally joined to an upper link. 9. A device as set forth in claim 8, in which each leg has three degrees of freedom. 10. A device as set forth in claim 1, in which the assembly is provided with a payload that includes at least one condition sensor to sense a prevailing condition on the site. 11. A device as set forth in claim 10, in which the condition sensor is a video camera which views the site and communicates an image thereof to a remote operator. 12. A device as set forth in claim 11, in which the video camera is mounted in a transparent capsule at the center of the assembly at its upper end and scans 360 degrees about the assembly. 13. A device as set forth in claim 10, in which the condition sensor is a smoke detector responsive to smoke emanating from the site. 14. A device as set forth in claim 10, in which the condition sensor is an acoustic detector which picks up sounds emanating from the site. 15. A device as set forth in claim 10, in which the condition sensor is a gas detector. 16. A device as set forth in claim 11, in which the assembly is provided with means including a position detector to sense the position of the assembly relative to the site as it traverses the site. 17. A device as set forth in claim 16, in which said means to sense the position of the assembly senses the presence of an obstacle in a path of the assembly to avoid the obstacle. 18. A device as set forth in claim 1, in which the device includes means to gather information with regard to the site and a radio transmitter to communicate information gathered by the robot scout to an operator. 19. A device as set forth in claim 18, in which the assembly is provided with a radio receiver to receive command signals from a remote operator to control the operation of the device. 20. A device as set forth in claim 1, in which the assembly is provided with a payload that includes fire extinguishing equipment. 21. A device as set forth in claim 1, in which the assembly is provided with a payload that includes sensors for geo-referenced navigation and flight control function. 