A light-weight, compact, highly dexterous surgical robot system for performing in vivo minimally invasive surgeries that allows precise control of position and orientation of surgical tools. The surgical robot system has three rotational degrees of freedom and one translational degree of freedom and is composed of seven links joined by three gear pairs and six turning pairs. The surgical robot system maintains an open space where a surgical tool element enters the patient to avoid self-collisions within the robot system during surgeries.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical robot system, comprising: a gear mechanism including a gear device and a first axis along said gear mechanism; a base mechanism including a wheel device and a second axis along said base mechanism; a tool mechanism including a sleeve device, a pinion device and a third axis along said tool mechanism, wherein said sleeve device is adaptable to hold a surgical tool element, wherein the first axis, the second axis, and the third axis meet at a single point; said wheel device is secured to said gear device and said pinion device is secured to said gear device such that the system includes a first degree of freedom defined by rotation about said first axis, a second degree of freedom defined by rotation about said second axis, a third degree of freedom defined by rotation about said third axis and a fourth degree of freedom defined by translation about said third axis; a controller device; and an input device to affect said controller device in order to operate the surgical robot system. 2. The surgical robot system of claim 1, wherein said base mechanism is adapted to be fixedly mounted to a surface. 3. The surgical robot system of claim 1, wherein said controller device is coupled to said base mechanism for rotating said gear mechanism and said tool mechanism about said first axis. 4. The surgical robot system of claim 1, wherein said controller device is coupled to said gear mechanism for rotating said tool mechanism about said second axis. 5. The surgical robot system of claim 1, wherein said controller device is coupled to said tool mechanism for rotating said tool mechanism about said third axis. 6. The surgical robot system of claim 1, wherein said controller device is coupled to said tool mechanism for translating said tool mechanism about said third axis. 7. A method of performing minimally invasive surgery using a robot system, comprising the steps of: securing a base mechanism wherein a first axis is along the base mechanism; engaging a tool element within a sleeve device of a tool mechanism; introducing the tool element into a body cavity; rotating a gear mechanism about the first axis to position the tool element at a desired location inside the cavity, wherein a second axis is along the gear mechanism; spinning the tool mechanism about the second axis to position the tool element at a desired location inside the cavity, wherein a third axis is along the tool mechanism; turning the tool mechanism about the third axis to position the tool element at a desired location inside the cavity; and translating the tool mechanism to position the tool element at a desired location inside the cavity, wherein the first axis, the second axis, and the third axis meet at a single point. 8. The method of performing minimally invasive surgery using a robot system of claim 7, wherein said rotating step, said spinning step, and said turning step are performed simultaneously. 9. A surgical robot system for minimally invasive surgery, comprising: a base mechanism adapted to be fixedly mounted to a surface; a gear mechanism including a planetary bevel gear train, wherein said gear mechanism is rotatably mounted to said base mechanism for rotation about a first axis along said base mechanism; a tool mechanism including a sleeve device holding a surgical tool element, wherein said tool mechanism is rotatably mounted to said gear mechanism for rotation about a second axis along said gear mechanism; said tool mechanism further translatable and rotatable about a third axis along said tool mechanism; a controller device for controlling said gear mechanism and said tool mechanism; and an input device to operate said controller device to position and manipulate said surgical tool element within a body cavity, wherein the first axis, the second axis, and the third axis meet at a single point. 10. The surgical robot system of claim 9 further comprising a feedback device to collect, process and transmit data applied to said surgical tool element. 11. The surgical robot system of claim 10, wherein said feedback device and said input device are integrated as a single unit. 