A parallel reactor system including a reactor and vessels in the reactor for holding reaction mixtures, and a cannula for introducing fluid reaction material into the vessels. A robot system is operable to insert the cannula into cannula passages in the reactor for delivery of reaction materials, including slurries, to respective vessels, and to withdraw the cannula from the cannula passages after delivery. Related methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for parallel processing of multiple reaction mixtures, said apparatus comprising a reactor having an exterior surface, vessels in the reactor for holding said reaction mixtures, each vessel having a central longitudinal axis, a cannula for introducing fluid reaction material into the vessels, said cannula having a longitudinal axis, a distal end, and a port generally adjacent said distal end for delivery of said reaction material from the cannula, cannula passages in the reactor extending between said exterior surface of the reactor and said vessels, each cannula passage extending at an angle relative to said central longitudinal axis of a respective vessel, and a robot system operable to insert the cannula through a selected cannula passage and into a respective vessel for the delivery of said reaction material from the cannula to the respective vessel, and to withdraw the cannula from the selected cannula passage and respective vessel. 2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said port of the cannula opens generally laterally with respect to the longitudinal axis of the cannula whereby reaction material is delivered from the cannula and directed into said vessels in a downward direction generally parallel to said central longitudinal axis of each vessel. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a sealing mechanism in each cannula passage for sealing against leakage of gas therepast when the cannula is inserted into and withdrawn from the cannula passages. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said sealing mechanism comprises a valve movable between a closed position for closing the cannula passage and an open position permitting movement of the cannula through the passage, and a seal in the passage sealingly engageable with the cannula when the valve is in its open position. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said seal is located on a side of the valve opposite the vessel. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a wiper on the reactor adjacent an inlet end of each cannula passage for wiping the exterior surface of the cannula as it is inserted in the passage to wipe away any material thereon. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robot system is operable to move said cannula to an angled orientation in which the cannula is held at an angle corresponding to the angle the selected cannula passage extends relative to said central longitudinal axis of the respective vessel for insertion of the cannula into the selected cannula passage. 8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7 further comprising a sealing mechanism in each cannula passage for sealing against leakage of gas therepast when the cannula is inserted into and withdrawn from the cannula passages, said sealing mechanism comprising a valve movable between a closed position for closing the passage and an open position permitting movement of the cannula through the passage, and a seal in the passage sealingly engageable with the cannula when the valve is in its open position, said seal being located on a side of the valve opposite said vessel. 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8 wherein said robot system is operable to insert said cannula in said angled orientation into a cannula passage to a delivery position in which the distal end of the cannula is downstream from the valve for delivery of reaction material to a respective vessel, then to withdraw the cannula to an intermediate position in which the distal end of the cannula is between the valve and said seal, the robot system holding the cannula in said intermediate position for a dwell period sufficient to allow the valve to close prior to completely withdrawing the cannula from the cannula passage. 10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said robot system comprises an arm rotatable about a longitudinal axis extending generally parallel to the arm, a mount on the arm for mounting said cannula, and a rotating mechanism for rotating the arm about said longitudinal axis to move the cannula between said angled position and a generally vertical position. 11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said rotating mechanism comprises an actuator for rotating said arm in two directions, a first stop for limiting rotation of the arm in one direction to stop the arm at a position corresponding to said angled position of the cannula, and a second stop for limiting rotation of the arm in an opposite direction to stop the arm at a position corresponding to said generally vertical position of the cannula. 12. Apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein said actuator comprises a double-acting power cylinder. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said cannula comprises a long metal tube, and wherein said apparatus further comprises a cannula support on the mount engageable with the tube intermediate the ends of the tube for supporting and stabilizing the tube in precise position as the cannula is moved. 14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said cannula support comprises a body affixed to the cannula mount and a head mounted on the body and having an opening therein sized for a close clearance fit with said long metal tube, said head being movable relative to the body from an extended position in which the head is spaced from the body for engagement with a more distal portion of the tube, and a retracted position in which the head is closer to the body for engagement with a more proximal portion of the tube to allow for insertion of the said more distal portion of the tube into a cannula passage. 15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cannula comprises a reservoir for holding a volume of said reaction material, said reservoir having an outside diameter, and a long thin tubular needle in fluid communication with said reservoir and having an outside diameter less than the outside diameter of the reservoir, said needle having a lateral opening constituting said port of the cannula. 16. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a heated wash tower having a well therein for receiving a portion of a cannula to be cleaned, said tower having a heater for heating fluid in the well to clean said portion of the cannula. 17. A method of loading fluid reaction material into a series of vessels in a reactor, each vessel having a central longitudinal axis, said method comprising, in sequence: (1) inserting a cannula through a cannula passage in said reactor to a position in which the cannula extends at an angle relative to the central longitudinal axis of a first vessel of said series of vessels, and in which a distal end of the cannula is disposed in said vessel, (2) delivering a fluid reaction material from said cannula into the vessel, (3) withdrawing the cannula from said passage, and (4) repeating 1-3 for a second vessel. 18. A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein the cannula has a port adjacent its said distal end opening laterally relative to a longitudinal axis of the cannula, said method further comprising orienting said distal end of the cannula in the vessel so that said port faces downwardly for delivering reaction material from the cannula in a downward direction. 19. A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein said cannula has an outside surface, and wherein said method further comprises wiping the outside surface as the cannula is inserted in said cannula passage. 20. A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein each cannula passage has a sealing mechanism therein for sealing against the leakage of gas therepast when the cannula is inserted into and withdrawn from the passages, said method comprising inserting the cannula into said cannula passage to a point past said sealing mechanism, and then delivering pressurized fluid reaction material from the cannula into the vessel. 21. A method as set forth in claim 20 wherein said sealing mechanism comprises a valve movable between a closed position for closing the cannula passage and an open position permitting movement of the cannula through the passage, and a seal in the passage sealingly engageable with the cannula when the valve is in its open position, said seal being located on a side of the valve opposite said vessel, said withdrawing step comprising withdrawing the cannula to an intermediate position in which the distal end of the cannula is located between the valve and said seal, and holding the cannula in said intermediate position for a dwell period sufficient to allow the valve to close before completely withdrawing the cannula from the cannula passage. 22. A method as set forth in claim 17 wherein said reaction material is a slurry comprising a catalyst fluid. 23. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein said catalyst is disposed on a particulate support. 24. A method as set forth in claim 17 further comprising cleaning the cannula after withdrawing it from said cannula passage, said cleaning comprising washing and rinsing the cannula using a heated solution. 25. A method as set forth in claim 17 further comprising cleaning the cannula after withdrawing it from said cannula passage, said cleaning comprising subjecting said cannula to ultrasonic waves. 