A computer assisted orthopedic surgery planner software for generation of 3D (three dimensional) solid bone models from two or more 2D (two dimensional) X-ray images of a patient's bone. The computer assisted orthopedic surgery planner software reconstructs the bone contours by starting with a 3D template bone and deforming the 3D template bone to substantially match the geometry of the patient's bone. A surgical planner and simulator module of the computer assisted orthopedic surgery planner software generates a simulated surgery plan showing the animation of the bone distraction process, the type and the size of the fixator frame to be mounted on the patient's bone, the frame mounting plan, the osteotomy/coricotomy site location and the day-by-day length adjustment schedule for each fixator strut. All bone models and surgery plans are shown as 3D graphics on a computer screen to provide realistic, pre-surgery guidance to the surgeon. Post-operative surgical data may be fed back into the computer assisted orthopedic surgery planner software to revise the earlier specified one distraction trajectory in view of any discrepancy between the pre-operative plan data and the actual, post-operative data. Assistance in planning and carrying out a bone distraction surgery may be provided to remotely-located surgeons via the Internet using the computer assisted orthopedic surgery planner software at the service provider's location to generate specific surgical plans and simulation models for each surgeon requesting assistance. A physician-friendly 3D modeling approach in the computer assisted/orthopedic surgery planner software according to the present invention reduces the complexities and costs associated with a bone distraction surgery and thus allows more surgeons to practice bone distraction, thereby benefitting more patients in need of bone distraction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating a computer-based 3D (three-dimensional) model for a patient's anatomical part comprising: defining a 3D template model for the patient's anatomical part; receiving a plurality of 2D (two-dimensional) X-ray images of the patient's anatomical part; extracting 2D fiducial geometry of the patient's anatomical part from each of said plurality of 2D X-ray images; and deforming the 3D template model using the 2D fiducial geometry of the patient's anatomical part so as to minimize an error between contours of the patient's anatomical part and those of the deformed 3D template model. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein debug the 3D template model includes selecting the 3D template model from a set of 3D template models stored in an electronic database. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the plurality of 2D X-ray images includes receiving said each of the plurality of 2D X-ray images in a digitized form. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the plurality of 2D X-ray images includes: generating the plurality of 2D X-ray images of the patient's anatomical part; and digitizing said each of the plurality of 2D X-ray images. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient's anatomical part is a bone. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting 2D fiducial geometry includes detecting surface contours of the patient's anatomical part from said each of the plurality of 2D X-ray images. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein deforming the 3D template model includes: identifying the 2D fiducial geometry of the patient's anatomical part on the 3D template model therefor; embedding the 3D template model into a 3D lattice; and deforming the 3D lattice until a projection error between one of the plurality of 2D X-ray images and a corresponding view of the 3D template model projected thereon is minimized. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein deforming the 3D lattice includes: computing a plurality of free form deformation (FFD) parameters for the 3D lattice; and optimizing values for the plurality of FFD parameters so as to minimize the error between the contours of the patient's anatomical part and those of the deformed 3D template model. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the 3D lattice is constituted of a plurality of parallelpipeds. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said each of said plurality of 2D X-ray images is contained in a plane that is orthogonal to the planes containing the remainder of said plurality of 2D X-ray images. 11. A method of creating a 3D (three-dimensional) model of a bone, comprising: extracting a bone contour from a plurality of 2D(two-dimensional) X-ray images; identifying the bone contour on a 3D template bone model; adjusting a size and position of the template bone model based on the bone contour; and, minimizing the differences between the adjusted template bone model and the X-ray images. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising creating a surgical plan based on the template bone model. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein minimizing differences includes minimizing differences based on a plurality of free form deformation parameters. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein adjusting a size and position of the template bone model includes adjusting size and position of the template bone model until they are optimum. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising accepting the plurality of X-ray images in digital format. 16. The method of claims 11, further comprising accepting a position of a camera. 17. A system, comprising: a 3D (three-dimensional) template geometry database having stored therein at least one 3D template bone model; and, a 3D geometry reconstructor module; wherein the reconstructor module creates a 3D model of a bone by: extracting a bone contour from a plurality of 2D (two-dimensional) X-ray images; identifying the bone contour on a 3D template bone model; adjusting a size and position of the template bone model based on the bone contour; and, minimizing the differences between the adjusted template bone model and the X-ray images. 18. A system of claim 17, wherein the geometry reconstructor module is further for accepting the plurality of X-ray images in digital format. 19. A system of claim 17, further comprising a deformation mode database. 20. A 3D (three dimensional) geometry reconstructor, comprising: means for extracting a bone contour from a plurality of 2D (two-dimensional) X-ray images; means for identifying the bone contour on a 3D template bone model; means for adjusting a size and position of the template bone model based on the bone contour; and, means for minimizing the differences between the adjusted template bone model and the X-ray images. 