An analytical biochemistry system featuring a substrate with reactants immobilized thereon at fixed, known locations, a holder supporting the substrate and a manipulator for transporting the holder to a fixed sample and to an inspection station. The reactants are binding agents for a target biomolecule in a sample which forms a bound substance having a detectable characteristic. The holder may be a standard pipettor, optionally carried by a robot arm or hand as the manipulator to contact the sample for detection of the presence of target biomolecules within the sample. In one embodiment, the holder is a pipette tip within which the substrate is housed, or it may be a pipette adapter which bears the substrate and fits within the sample wells of a standard microtiter plate. After appropriate incubation, the substrate and holder may be moved from contact with the sample, and the substrate may be exposed to any necessary development steps before being moved by the manipulator to a location for probing, such as by a beam. Probing of the substrate is performed to identify binding or complexing of target biomolecules of the sample with the reactants immobilized on the substrate, and may be accomplished via fluorescence detection, light scattering, autoradiography, or some other detection method.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device comprising: a) a substrate comprising at least one array, wherein the array comprises at least 25 different reactant binding agents each specific for a different target biomolecule in a plurality of target biomolecules, wherein said reactant binding agents are immobilized on a surface of the substrate at discrete, known locations arranged in a two-dimensional array format so that each different reactant binding agent is present at a different known location and wherein the reactant binding agents are synthesized on the surface of the substrate; b) a holder, wherein the substrate comprising the at least one array is attached to a surface of the holder, and wherein said surface of the holder and the at least one array fits within a corresponding sample well of a microtiter plate; and c) a microtiter plate comprising a plurality of sample wells, wherein the holder and the microtiter plate are arranged such that the substrate comprising the at least one array, further comprising the at least 25 different reactant binding agents, is fitted into a single sample well of the microtiter plate. 2. A device according to claim 1 wherein said surface of the holder is flat and arranged in the sample well so that the substrate comprising the at least one array is parallel to the bottom of the microtiter plate. 3. A device according to claim 1 wherein the holder is attached to a robotic arm. 4. A device according to claim 1 wherein the holder comprises an evaporation barrier that is parallel to the surface of the holder to which the substrate is attached when the substrate is fitted into a sample well and which provides a barrier between a sample in a sample well of the microtiter plate and the atmosphere outside the sample well when the holder to which the substrate is attached is fitted into said sample well of the microtiter plate so that the substrate is in contact with the sample. 5. A device according to claim 1 wherein said array is immersed in a sample within a sample well of said microtiter plate and wherein said sample comprises a plurality of target molecules. 6. A device according to claim 1 wherein the holder is made from plastic. 7. A device according to claim 1 wherein the reactant binding agents are selected from the group consisting of DNA strands and immunological biomolecules. 8. A device comprising: a plurality of holders, wherein each holder has an end with a flat bottom surface, the flat bottom surface bearing a substrate having an array of reactants wherein said reactants are immobilized on the substrate at discrete, known locations and where said array comprises at least 25 different reactants arranged in a two-dimensional format so that each different reactant is present at a different known location and wherein the reactants are synthesized on the substrate, the substrate and the array of reactants being disposed in a downward facing orientation, in a single sample well of a microtiter plate; and wherein said microtiter plate comprises a plurality of sample wells, wherein each holder and each array of reactants is fitted into a different sample well of the microtiter plate so that each array of reactants is immersed in a biological sample. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the holder is attached to a robotic arm that is controlled by a computer that is programmed to maintain the robotic arm at a first station for an incubation time and then to move the robotic arm to a second station. 10. The device of claim 8 wherein the holder is attached to a hand-held pipettor. 11. The device of claim 8 wherein the flat bottom surface of the holder has knobs positioning the substrate a fixed distance above the bottom of the sample well. 12. The device of claim 1 wherein the array is prepared using photolithography. 13. The device of claim 1 further comprising a detection assembly comprising a detector comprising a CCD array. 14. A system for detection of target biomolecules within a sample comprising: a) a substrate comprising at least one bioarray, wherein the bioarray comprises at least 25 different reactants each reactant being specific for a different target biomolecule, wherein said reactants are immobilized on a surface of the substrate so that each different reactant is located at a different known location in a two-dimensional array format; b) a holder, wherein the substrate comprising the at least one bioarray is attached to a surface of the holder; c) a microtiter plate comprising a plurality of sample wells containing sample, wherein the holder and the microtiter plate are arranged such that the substrate and the at least one bioarray is fitted into a single sample well of the microtiter plate so that the reactants are in contact with the sample; d) a robotic arm for gripping the holder; e) a computer to operate the robotic arm; and f) a detection assembly comprising a light source and a detector comprising a CCD array. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the substrate is glass. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein the reactants are oligonucleotides that are immobilized on the surface by covalent linkage. 17. A method of making the device of claim 1 comprising first synthesizing the at least one array on a separate member to generate the substrate comprising the at least one array and second attaching the substrate comprising the at least one array to the holder. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the separate member is a solid support and the array is an oligonucleotide array synthesized by a method comprising biopolymer synthesis on a solid support. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the separate member is glass. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the solid support is segmented after biopolymer synthesis into individual substrates that are then attached to the holder. 