In one embodiment a sensor calibration system includes a robotic platform able to navigate to sensors distributed throughout an environment. The sensors may measure, for example, acoustic levels, temperature, luminance, or humidity. The robotic platform is equipped with at least one set of calibrated sensors and is capable of maneuvering around the environment to respective positions adjacent to the sensors to perform on site calibration. Such proximity also permits recharging power supplies of sensors and download/upload of information to and from the sensor.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. A sensor calibration method comprising: identifying locations, each location corresponding to at least one of a plurality of sensors positioned in an environment; navigating a robotic platform having at least one set of calibrated sensors mounted on the robotic platform, the robotic platform capable of maneuvering around the environment to positions, wherein each position is adjacent to at least one of the plurality of sensors; and calibrating at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment using calibration information from the at least one set of calibrated sensors mounted on the robotic platform. 2. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising storing information in a sensor calibration database to track temporal changes in calibration error. 3. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising repositioning of at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 4. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising replacement of at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 5. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising placing at least one uncalibrated sensor positioned in the environment. 6. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising modeling of sensor characteristics to detect failure modes requiring attention by the robotic platform. 7. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising recharging of a power source corresponding to at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment, the recharging performed by the robotic platform. 8. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, further comprising replacement of a power source corresponding to at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment, the replacement performed by the robotic platform. 9. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment measure temperature variations. 10. The sensor calibration method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment are at least intermittently maintainable in wireless communication with a sensor monitoring system. 11. An article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions that when executed by a machine result in: identifying locations, each location corresponding to at least one of a plurality of sensors positioned in an environment; navigating a robotic platform having at least one set of calibrated sensors mounted on the robotic platform, the robotic platform capable of maneuvering around the environment to positions, wherein each position is adjacent to at least one of the plurality of sensors; and at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment using calibration information from the at least one set of calibrated sensors mounted on the robotic platform. 12. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising storing information in a sensor calibration database to track temporal changes in calibration error. 13. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising repositioning of at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 14. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising replacement of at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 15. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising placing at least one uncalibrated sensor positioned in the environment. 16. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising modeling of sensor characteristics to detect failure modes requiring attention by the robotic platform. 17. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising recharging of a power source corresponding to at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment, the recharging performed by the robotic platform. 18. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, further comprising replacement of a power source corresponding to at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment, the replacement performed by the robotic platform. 19. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, wherein the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment measure temperature variations. 20. The article comprising a storage medium having stored thereon instructions according to claim 11, wherein the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment are at least intermittently maintainable in wireless communication with a sensor monitoring system. 21. A sensor calibration system comprising: a robotic platform able to navigate to a plurality of sensors positioned in an environment, the robotic platform having at least one set of calibrated sensors mounted thereon, the robotic platform capable of maneuvering around the environment to positions, wherein each position is adjacent to at least one of the plurality of sensors; and a sensor monitoring system to determine calibration timing of the plurality of sensors by the robotic platform. 22. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, further comprising a sensor calibration database to store information for tracking temporal changes in calibration error. 23. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the robotic platform is capable of repositioning the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 24. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the robotic platform is capable of replacing the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 25. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the robotic platform is capable of placing uncalibrated sensors positioned in the environment. 26. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, further comprising a sensor characteristic modeler to detect failure modes requiring attention by the robotic platform. 27. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the robotic platform is capable of recharging of a power source corresponding to at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment by the robotic platform. 28. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the robotic platform is capable of replacing a power source corresponding to at least one of the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment. 29. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment measure temperature variations. 30. The sensor calibration system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of sensors positioned in the environment are at least intermittently maintainable in wireless communication with a sensor monitoring system. 