A semiconductor processing apparatus and method are disclosed herein, including a plurality of process chambers, wherein at least one semiconductor processing operation occurs within each process chamber among the plurality of process chambers. Additionally, the apparatus and method disclosed herein include a robot mechanism for rotating each process chamber among the plurality of process chambers upon completion of an associated semiconductor processing operation. Such a robot mechanism may comprise a plurality of robots. Specifically, such a plurality of robots may include six robots configured on an associated carousel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor processing apparatus, comprising: a plurality of process chambers, wherein at least one semiconductor processing operation occurs within each process chamber among said plurality of process chambers; a robot mechanism for rotating a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers upon completion of a semiconductor processing operation associated with said process chamber, wherein said robot mechanism rotates each process chamber among said plurality of process chambers in a manner and a sequence for permitting the efficient cleaning of each process chamber and prevention of partlcle accumulation thereof; a plurality of robots, wherein each robot of said plurality robots can perform a processing task at a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers; a carousel which rotates at least one robot among said plurality of robots to at least one process chamber among said plurality of process chambers upon completion of an associated semiconductor processing operation. 2. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one process chamber among said plurality of process chambers comprises at least one of the following types of process chambers: a multistage cooling chamber and a load lock chamber. 3. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said plurality of robots comprises six robots. 4. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robot mechanism comprises said plurality of robots, such that said plurality of robots are configured upon said carousel. 5. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 3 wherein said six robots are located upon said carousel. 6. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said: a carousel is associated with said plurality of process chambers. 7. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 wherein a plurality of semiconductor processing operations occur within said plurality of process chambers, including an oxide operation, an SiON operation and an N.sub.2 treatment operation. 8. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: cleaning mechanism for cleaning a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers immediately following completion of a semiconductor processing operation within said process chamber. 9. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 1 whereIn said plurality of process chambers comprises: a first process chamber; a second process chamber; a third process chamber; a fourth process chamber; at least one multistage cooling chamber; and at least one load lock chamber. 10. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 9 wherein robot mechanism comprises: a first robot associated with said first process chamber; a second robot associated with said second process chamber; a third robot associated with said third process chamber; a fourth robot associated with said fourth process chamber; a fifth robot associated with said at least one multistage cooling chamber; and a sixth robot associated with said at least one load lock chamber, wherein said first, second, third, fourth and fifth robots rotate on a carousel associated with said semiconductor processing apparatus. 11. A semiconductor processing apparatus, comprising: a plurality of process chambers, wherein at least one semiconductor processing operation occurs within each process chamber among said plurality of process chambers; a robot mechanism for rotating a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers upon completion of a semiconductor processing operation associated with said process chamber; a plurality of robots, wherein each robot of said plurality robots can perform a processing task at a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers; a carousel associated which rotates at least one robot among said plurality of robots to at least one process chamber among said plurality of process chambers upon completion of an associated semiconductor processing operation; a cleaning mechanism for cleaning a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers immediately following completion of a semiconductor processing operation within said process chamber; and wherein said robot mechanism rotates each process chamber in a manner and a sequence for permitting the efficient cleaning of each process chamber and prevention of particle accumulation thereof. 12. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 11 wherein said plurality of process chambers comprises: a first process chamber; a second process chamber; a third process chamber; a fourth process chamber; at least one multistage cooling chamber; and at least one load lock chamber. 13. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 11 wherein robot mechanism comprises: a first robot associated with said first process chamber; a second robot associated with said second process chamber; a third robot associated with said third process chamber; a fourth robot associated with said fourth process chamber; a fifth robot associated with said at least one multistage cooling chamber; and a sixth robot associated with said at least one load lock chamber, wherein said first, second, third, fourth and fifth robots rotate on a carousel associated with said semiconductor processing apparatus. 14. A semiconductor processing apparatus, comprising: a plurality of process chambers, wherein at least one semiconductor processing operation occurs within each process chamber among said plurality of process chambers; a robot mechanism for rotating a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers upon completion of a semiconductor processing operation associated with said process chamber, wherein said robot mechanism further comprises a plurality of robots, wherein each robot of said plurality robots can perform a processing task at a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers; a carousel associated which rotates at least one robot among said plurality of robots to at least one process chamber among said plurality of process chambers upon completion of an associated semiconductor processing operation; a cleaning mechanism for cleaning a process chamber among said plurality of process chambers immediately following completion of a semiconductor processing operation within said process chamber; and wherein said robot mechanism rotates each process chamber in a manner and a sequence for permitting the efficient cleaning of each process chamber and prevention of particle accumulation thereof. 15. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 14 wherein said plurality of robots comprises six robots for increased throughput thereof. 