An automated data library system includes a data library housing drive clusters. The drive clusters include drive arrays of disk drives. The drive clusters are statically mounted within the data library and are not powered when not in use. The system includes a robotic librarian operable for moving about the data library to locate, engage, and access a desired drive cluster. The robotic librarian includes its own power source for providing power to the desired drive cluster in order to enable operation of the desired drive cluster. The robotic librarian further includes a cooling device for cooling off desired drive cluster while the drive cluster is operating. The robotic librarian further includes a writer and a reader for writing data to and reading data from the disk drives of the desired drive cluster using the connection while the desired drive cluster is operating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated data library system comprising: a data library having a housing; a plurality of disk drive clusters statically mounted within respective areas of the housing of the data library, each disk drive cluster includes at least one disk drive array and each disk drive array includes at least one disk drive; and a robotic librarian operable for moving about the data library to locate a desired disk drive cluster, the robotic librarian having a reader for reading data stored on a disk drive of a disk drive cluster and a power source for providing power to a disk drive cluster to enable operation of the disk drive cluster, the robotic librarian being further operable for making a connection with the desired disk drive cluster, wherein the robotic librarian transfers power from the power source to the desired disk drive cluster via the connection for enabling operation of the desired disk drive cluster, wherein the robotic librarian reads data stored on a disk drive of the desired disk drive cluster with the reader via the connection while operation of the desired disk drive cluster is enabled. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein: the robotic librarian further includes a cooling device for supplying air to cool off a disk drive cluster while operation of the disk drive cluster is enabled, wherein the robotic librarian supplies air from the cooling device to the desired disk drive cluster via the connection. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein: the disk drive clusters each include a data communications port, wherein the connection between the robotic librarian and the desired disk drive cluster includes a connection between the robotic librarian and the data communications port of the desired disk drive cluster in order to enable the reader of the robotic librarian to read data stored on the desired disk drive cluster. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein: the disk drive clusters each include a power port, wherein the connection between the robotic librarian and the desired disk drive cluster includes a connection between the robotic librarian and the power port of the desired disk drive cluster in order to enable the power source of the robotic librarian to provide power to the desired disk drive cluster. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein: the disk drive clusters each include a port and the robotic librarian includes an arm, wherein the port of the desired disk drive cluster receives the arm of the robotic librarian in order for the robotic librarian to make the connection with the desired disk drive cluster. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein: the connection between the robotic librarian and the desired disk drive cluster is an umbilical connection. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein: the data library includes cabinets arranged in a book-shelf configuration, wherein the disk drive clusters are statically mounted within the cabinets of the data library. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein: the data library includes cabinets arranged in a silo configuration, wherein the disk drive clusters are statically mounted within the cabinets of the data library. 9. An automated data library system comprising: a data library having un-powered cabinets within a housing; a plurality of disk drive clusters statically mounted within respective areas of the cabinets in the housing of the data library, each disk drive cluster includes at least one disk drive array and each disk drive array includes at least one disk drive; and a robotic librarian operable for moving about the data library to locate a desired disk drive cluster, the robotic librarian having at least one of a writer and a reader, the writer being operable for writing data to a disk drive of a drive cluster and the reader being operable for reading data from a disk drive of a drive cluster, the robotic librarian further having a power source for providing power to a disk drive cluster to enable operation of the disk drive cluster, the robotic librarian being further operable for physically engaging the desired disk drive cluster, wherein the robotic librarian transfers power from the power source to the desired disk drive cluster via the physical engagement for enabling operation of the desired disk drive cluster, wherein the robotic librarian is operable for using the writer to write data to a disk drive of the desired drive cluster over the physical connection while the desired disk drive cluster is powered, wherein the robotic librarian is operable for using the reader to read data from a disk drive of the desired disk drive cluster over the physical connection while the desired disk drive cluster is powered. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein: the cabinets of the data library are un-cooled, the robotic librarian further including a cooling device for supplying air to cool off a disk drive cluster while operation of the disk drive cluster is powered, wherein the robotic librarian supplies air from the cooling device to the desired disk drive cluster while the desired disk drive cluster is powered. 11. The system of claim 9 wherein: the disk drive clusters each include a data communications port, wherein the physical engagement between the robotic librarian and the desired disk drive cluster includes a connection between the robotic librarian and the data communications port of the desired disk drive cluster in order to enable writing data to and reading data from the desired disk drive cluster. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein: the disk drive clusters each include a power port, wherein the physical engagement between the robotic librarian and the desired disk drive cluster includes a connection between the robotic librarian and the power port of the desired disk drive cluster in order to enable the power source of the robotic librarian to provide power to the desired disk drive cluster. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein: the disk drive clusters each include a receiving canal and the robotic librarian includes an arm, wherein the receiving canal of the desired disk drive cluster receives the arm of the robotic librarian in order for the robotic librarian to connect with the data communications port and the power port of the desired disk drive cluster. 