Interactive, computer based orthodontist treatment planning, appliance design and appliance manufacturing is described. A scanner is described which acquires images of the dentition which are converted to three-dimensional frames of data. The data from the several frames are registered to each other to provide a complete three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition. Individual tooth objects are obtained from the virtual model. A computer-interactive software program provides for treatment planning, diagnosis and appliance from the virtual tooth models. A desired occlusion for the patient is obtained from the treatment planning software. The virtual model of the desired occlusion and the virtual model of the original dentition provide a base of information for custom manufacture of an orthodontic appliance. A variety of possible appliance and appliance manufacturing systems are contemplated, including customized archwires and customized devices for placement of off-the shelf brackets on the archwires, and removable orthodontic appliances.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive, orthodontic care system based on scanning of teeth, comprising: a hand-held scanner and associated processing system for capturing images of the dentition of the patient and processing the images to generate a full, virtual, three-dimensional model of the dentition; a data conditioning system processing the virtual, three-dimensional model and responsively generating a set of individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth objects representing teeth in the dentition of the patient; a memory storing virtual three-dimensional models of orthodontic appliances; and a workstation comprising a user interface for display of said set of individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth objects and software adapted for permitting a user to manipulate the virtual three-dimensional tooth objects and to select and place one or more of the virtual models of orthodontic appliances on said tooth objects to thereby design a target situation for the patient in three dimensions and design of a customized orthodontic appliance system including said orthodontic appliances for said teeth. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held scanner and associated processing system, said data conditioning system, and said workstation are installed in an orthodontic clinic. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held scanner and workstation are installed in an orthodontic clinic, and wherein said data conditioning system is installed in a general purpose computer at a remote location from said orthodontic clinic. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said remote location comprises an appliance manufacturing facility manufacturing at least a portion of said customized orthodontic appliance system. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said customized orthodontic appliance comprises a customized orthodontic archwire, and wherein said appliance manufacturing facility further comprises a six-axis wire bending robot for bending said customized orthodontic archwires. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising communication equipment for transmitting digital data representing at least said target situation and said design of a customized orthodontic appliance system to a remotely located appliance manufacturing facility, said appliance manufacturing facility receiving said digital data and further comprising orthodontic appliance manufacturing equipment for manufacturing at least a portion of said customized orthodontic appliance system. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises an archwire. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises set of orthodontic brackets and an archwire. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises a retainer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises a substantially transparent aligning device. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held scanner is adapted for intra-oral scanning and comprises a light source, an electronic imaging device and a pattern source, said light source projecting a pattern onto said dentition, said electronic imaging device converting incident radiation into a two dimensional image of the pattern as reflected from said dentition. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the hand-held scanner further comprises a continuous illumination light source providing general illumination of the dentition during scanning. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein said processing system associated with said hand-held scanner executes a registration algorithm on frames of three-dimensional point clouds, each frame corresponding to an individual two-dimensional image captured by said electronic imaging device. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said registration algorithm comprises a cumulative registration algorithm. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said processing system associated with said hand-held scanner executes a pattern recognition routine for said two-dimensional images, a decoding routine, and a three-dimensional calculation routine generating a three-dimensional cloud of points associated with each of said two-dimensional images. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held scanner further comprises a video mode of operation in which a light source illuminates the dentition and an imaging device generates a video image of the dentition. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the scanner alternates in rapid succession between said video mode and a three-dimensional image capture mode. 18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a scanning workstation coupled to said hand-held scanner wherein said scanning workstation includes a voice-activated system in which operation of the scanner is controlled, at least in part, by voice commands. 19. An interactive, orthodontic care system for use at a clinic treating a patient suffering from a malocclusion, comprising: a hand-held, intra-oral scanner and associated processing system for capturing images of the dentition of the patient and processing the images to generate a full, virtual, three-dimensional model of the dentition in the malocclusion; a workstation having a display, a memory storing the three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of a patient in a malocclused situation and a processing unit, wherein the memory further stores a plurality of virtual three-dimensional models of orthodontic appliances; said workstation processing unit executing software representing an interactive treatment planning and appliance design program by which a user of said workstation may move individual three-dimensional, virtual tooth objects obtained from said virtual model of the dentition to a target situation and retrieve and place--virtual three-dimensional models of orthodontic appliances on said tooth objects, said target situation comprising a three-dimensional virtual model of said teeth at a desired occlusion; and communications equipment for transmission of digital information representing at least one of said virtual, three-dimensional model of the dentition in the malocclusion, the placement of said virtual three-dimensional models of orthodontic appliances on teeth and said three-dimensional virtual model of said teeth at a desired occlusion to a remotely located precision appliance manufacturing center for manufacturing at least a portion of a customized orthodontic appliance system for the patient. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a processing unit executing a routine for generating individual, virtual three-dimensional tooth models of teeth from said three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition of a patient in a malocclused situation. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said processing unit comprises the processing unit of said workstation. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein said processing unit comprises a general-purpose computer at said precision appliance manufacturing center. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the orthodontic appliance system comprises an archwire. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein the orthodontic appliance system comprises one or more devices for placement of orthodontic brackets on the teeth of the patient and an archwire. 25. The system of claim 19, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises a retainer. 26. The system of claim 19, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises a removable aligning device. 27. The system of claim 19, wherein the hand-held scanner includes a light source, an electronic imaging device and a pattern source, said light source projecting a pattern onto said dentition, said electronic imaging device converting incident radiation into a two dimensional image of the pattern as reflected from said dentition. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the hand-held scanner further comprises a continuous illumination light source providing general illumination of the dentition during scanning. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein said processing system associated with said hand-held scanner executes a registration algorithm on frames of three-dimensional point clouds, each frame corresponding to an individual two-dimensional image captured by said electronic imaging device. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein said registration algorithm comprises a cumulative registration algorithm. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein said processing system associated with said hand-held scanner executes a pattern recognition routine for said two-dimensional images, a decoding routine, and a three-dimensional calculation routine generating a three-dimensional cloud of points associated with each of said two-dimensional images. 32. The system of claim 19, wherein the scanner further comprises a video mode of operation in which a light source illuminates the dentition and an imaging device generates a video image of the dentition. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the scanner alternates in rapid succession between said video mode and a three-dimensional image capture mode. 34. The system of claim 32, further comprising a scanning workstation coupled to said hand-held scanner wherein said scanning workstation includes a voice-activated system in which operation of the scanner is controlled, at least in part, by voice commands. 35. The system of claim 19, wherein said precision appliance manufacturing center comprises a facility for bending customized orthodontic archwires and wherein said precision appliance manufacturing center further comprises a six-axis wire bending robot for bending said customized orthodontic archwires. 