Areas in which toxic material has been released, particularly in gaseous form but also in liquid form, are decontaminated by forming gas hydrate of the toxic agent. Smaller-molecule toxic agents form sI or sII type hydrates, whereas larger-molecule toxic agents for sH type hydrates. A "companion gas" or "companion agent" is supplied to fill the smaller voids of the sH hydrate, thereby enabling larger-molecule toxic agents to form hydrates by filling the larger voids of the sH hydrate which, but for the presence of the smaller-molecule agent in the smaller voids, would be unstable and not form. Portable as well as fixed, permanently installed apparatus for conducting hydrate-based decontamination is also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for decontaminating an area in which a hydrate-forming toxic agent has been released, said method comprising: gathering said toxic agent into a containment vessel; and admixing said toxic agent in said containment vessel with water under temperature and pressure conditions conducive to the formation of gas hydrate of said toxic agent so as to form toxic agent hydrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said toxic agent has a molecular size that is less than or equal to about 7 .ANG.. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said toxic agent is selected from the group consisting of chlorine, bromine, and hydrogen cyanide. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said toxic agent forms type sI or type sII hydrate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said toxic agent has a molecular size that is greater than about 7 .ANG.. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said toxic agent is a nerve agent. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said nerve agent is a non-persistent nerve agent. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said non-persistent nerve agent is selected from the group consisting of Sarin, Soman, Tabun, and Cyclohexyl methylphosonoflouridate. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein said nerve agent is a persistent nerve agent. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said nerve agent is VX. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein said toxic agent is mustard gas. 12. The method of claim 5, wherein said toxic agent forms type sH hydrate. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising admixing a helper or companion agent with said toxic agent and said water in said containment vessel, said helper agent and said toxic agent filling smaller voids and larger voids in said type sH hydrate, respectively. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said helper or companion agent is also a toxic agent. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein said helper or companion agent is non-toxic. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein said helper or companion agent is selected from the group consisting of carbon dioxide, chlorine, hydrogen sulfide, and methane. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said toxic agent is gaseous or forms a gas under ambient temperature and pressure conditions and wherein gathering said toxic agent into said containment vessel comprises drawing or pumping said toxic agent in its gaseous or liquid form into said containment vessel along with atmospheric air in which said toxic agent has been dispersed. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said admixing comprises spraying water into said containment vessel. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said containment vessel is filled with said water and said admixing comprises bubbling said toxic agent through said water. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising pressurizing said containment vessel. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising cooling said containment vessel. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein said containment vessel is modular or detachable, said method further comprising replacing said containment vessel with an empty, replacement containment vessel when said containment vessel has become filled with toxic agent hydrate. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising recycling water that has been introduced into said containment vessel but has not participated in hydrate formation. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising venting cleaned air from said containment vessel. 25. A method for decontaminating an area in which a hydrate-forming toxic agent has been released, the molecular size of said agent being of a large size incapable of forming a stable hydrate of sI or sII type, said method comprising: gathering said toxic agent in a containment vessel; admixing said toxic agent in a containment vessel with water and a hydrate-forming companion agent, the companion agent being of a molecular size capable of forming a stable hydrate of sI or sII type; and controlling temperature and pressure conditions in said vessel so as to cause the water, the toxic agent, and the companion agent to form a stable hydrate containing both the toxic agent and the companion agent. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said toxic agent is a nerve agent. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said nerve agent is a non-persistent nerve agent. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said non-persistent nerve agent is selected from the group consisting of Sarin, Soman, Tabun, and Cyclohexyl methylphosonoflouridate. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein said nerve agent is a persistent nerve agent. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said nerve agent is VX. 31. The method of claim 25, wherein said toxic agent is gaseous or forms a gas under ambient temperature and pressure conditions and wherein said gathering said toxic agent into said containment vessel comprises drawing said toxic agent into said containment vessel along with atmospheric air in which said toxic agent has been dispersed. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein said admixing comprises spraying water into said containment vessel. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein said admixing comprising bubbling the atmosphere air in which said toxic agent has been dispersed through a water bath. 34. The method of claim 25, further comprising recycling water that has been introduced into said containment vessel but has not participated in hydrate formation. 35. The method of claim 25, further comprising venting decontaminated air from said containment vessel. 36. The method of claim 25, further comprising deploying portable hydrate-formation decontamination apparatus in the vicinity of said decontamination site, said portable hydrate-formation decontamination apparatus including said containment vessel. 37. The method of claim 25, wherein said toxic agent is liquid under ambient temperature and pressure conditions and wherein said gathering comprises by pumping said toxic agent and into said containment vessel. 38. The method of claim 25, further comprising constructing said containment vessel on sites in the area in which said toxic agent has been released, said containment vessel being constructed as an enclosure which surrounds and isolates the sites of said toxic agent release. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising pressurizing said enclosure. 40. A method for neutralizing a nerve agent, the molecular size of said nerve agent being of a large size incapable of forming a stable hydrate of sI or sII type, said method comprising: admixing said nerve agent in a containment vessel with water and a hydrate-forming companion agent, the companion agent being of a molecular size capable of forming a stable hydrate or sI or sII type; controlling temperature and pressure conditions in said vessel so as to cause the water, the toxic agent, and the companion agent to form a stable hydrate containing both the toxic agent and the companion agent. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein said nerve agent is a non-persistent nerve agent. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein said non-persistent nerve agent is selected from the group consisting of Sarin, Soman, Tabun, and Cyclohexyl methylphosonoflouridate. 43. The method of claim 40, wherein said nerve agent is a persistent nerve agent. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein said nerve agent is VX. 45. The method claim 40, wherein said nerve agent has been released and said method further comprises gathering said nerve into said containment vessel. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein said toxic agent is gaseous or forms a gas under ambient temperature and pressure conditions and wherein said gathering said toxic agent into said containment vessel comprises drawing said toxic agent into said containment vessel along with atmospheric air in which said toxic agent has been dispersed. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein said admixing comprises spraying water into said containment vessel. 48. The method of claim 46, wherein said admixing comprising bubbling the atmosphere air in which said toxic agent has been dispersed through a water bath. 49. The method of claim 40, further comprising recycling water that has been introduced into said containment vessel but has not participated in hydrate formation. 50. The method of claim 40, further comprising venting decontaminated air from said containment vessel. 51. The method of claim 40, further comprising deploying portable hydrate-formation decontamination apparatus in the vicinity of said decontamination site, said portable hydrate-formation decontamination apparatus including said containment vessel. 52. The method of claim 51, further comprising constructing said containment vessel on sites in the area in which said toxic agent has been released, said containment vessel being constructed as an enclosure which surrounds and isolates the sites of said toxic agent release. 53. The method of claim 45, wherein said toxic agent is liquid under ambient temperature and pressure conditions and wherein said gathering comprises by pumping said toxic agent and into said containment vessel. 