A system for changing a tool head (24) carried by a robot (20) includes a locking mechanism (23) having a keyhole-shaped slot (37) therein, and a lock key assembly (25) having a key (65). Depression of a button (52) rotates a cam arm (57) to extend the key (65) outwardly where it can be received in the larger opening (38) of the slot (37). Depression of the button (35) of the locking mechanism (23) moves the slot (37) such that the neck (68) of the key (65) is received in the smaller opening (39) of the slot (37). Release of the buttons (52, 35) then allows a spring (71) to retract the key (65) until its head (69) is received in a recess (40) of the locking mechanism (23) to attach the tool head (24) to the robot (20). The parts are detached by again depressing the button (52) which extends the key (65) to remove its head (69) from the recess (40) and then depressing a button (34) to move the slot (37) so that the key (65) is again in the larger opening (38) from where it may be removed. The system may be operated manually or operated automatically at a docking station (26).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for attaching a tool head to a robot comprising a locking mechanism adapted to be carried by the robot, said locking mechanism including a slot movable from a first position to a second position, an arcuate uniform depth beveled recess adjacent to said slot, and a key assembly on the tool head, said key assembly having a rotationally symmetric beveled key positionable in said slot when said slot is in said first position and held in said recess adjacent to said slot when said slot is in said second position. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said locking mechanism includes a housing and a slide member movable relative to said housing, said slide member having said slot. 3. A system for attaching a tool head to a robot comprising a locking mechanism adapted to be carried by the robot, said locking mechanism including a housing and a slide member having a slot, said slide member being movable relative to said housing so that said slot is movable from a first position to a second position, and a key assembly on the tool head, said key assembly having a key positionable in said slot when said slot is in said first position and held in said slot when said slot is in said second position, said slide member including first and second detents and said housing including a plunger, said plunger being received in said first detent to maintain said first position and being received in said second detent to maintain said second position. 4. A system for attaching a tool head to a robot comprising a locking mechanism adapted to be carried by the robot, said locking mechanism including a housing and a slide member having a slot, said slide member being movable relative to said housing so that said slot is movable from a first position to a second position, a key assembly on the tool head, said key assembly having a key positionable in said slot when said slot is in said first position and held in said slot when said slot is in said second position, said slide member having opposed first and second buttons, said first button being depressable to move said slot from said first position to said second position, and said second button being depressable to move said slot from said second position to said first position. 5. The system according to claim 2, said housing having a window to expose said slot. 6. The system according to claim 1 wherein said slot is keyhole-shaped including a first portion having a smaller dimension than a second portion. 7. The system according to claim 6 wherein said key is insertable through said second portion when said slot is in said first position, and wherein said key is positioned in said first portion when said slot is in said second position. 8. The system according to claim 1, said key including a neck portion and a head portion having a larger dimension than said neck portion, said head portion being positionable in said recess. 9. The system according to claim 7 wherein said key includes a neck portion and a head portion having a larger dimension than said neck portion, said head portion being receivable through said second portion but not said first portion. 10. The system according to claim 9 wherein said neck portion is receivable in said first portion when said slot is in said second position. 11. A system for attaching a tool head to a robot comprising a locking mechanism adapted to be carried by the robot, said locking mechanism including a slot movable from a first position to a second position, and a key assembly on the tool head, said key assembly having a key and including a cam assembly to move said key into said slot when said slot is in said first position, said key being held in said slot when said slot is in said second position. 12. The system according to claim 11 wherein said cam assembly includes a cam arm having a surface bearing against said key. 13. The system according to claim 12 wherein said cam arm is pivotable about a pin near one end thereof, said cam assembly including a slide member operatively connected to said cam arm near the other end thereof. 14. The system according to claim 13 wherein said slide member includes a button which upon depression thereof pivots said cam arm on said pin to move said key to be received in said slot. 15. The system according to claim 14 wherein said key assembly includes a first spring to pivot said cam arm on said pin upon release of said button and a second spring to move said key out of said slot. 16. The system according to claim 15 further comprising a docking station which can carry the tool head. 17. The system according to claim 16 further comprising means to locate the tool head at said docking station. 18. The system according to claim 16 further comprising a first actuator positioned at said docking station to move said key into said slot. 19. The system according to claim 18 further comprising a second actuator positioned at said docking station to move said slot from said first position to said second position. 20. The system according to claim 19 further comprising a third actuator positioned at said docking station to move said slot from said second position to said first position. 21. A method of attaching a tool head having a key to a locking mechanism carried by a robot comprising the steps of depressing a first button to extend the key to a first position to be received by the locking mechanism, depressing a second button to hold the key at a second position in the locking mechanism, and releasing the buttons to attach the tool head to the locking mechanism. 22. The method according to claim 21 wherein the step of releasing the buttons moves the key to a third position in the locking mechanism. 23. The method according to claim 22 further comprising the step of detaching the tool head from the locking mechanism. 24. The method according to claim 23 wherein the step of detaching includes the step of depressing the first button to move the key from the third position to the second position. 25. The method according to claim 24 wherein the step of detaching includes the step of depressing a third button to move the key from the second position to the first position. 