A method for evaluating a test fluid as a fabric care composition or as a component thereof. The method includes providing a test sheet of fabric comprising a plurality of test regions and simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid. The method further includes screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a fabric property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the test sheet of porous material comprises two or more test sheets, each of the two or more test sheets comprising a plurality of test regions. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least two of the two or more test sheets are different from each other. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions of at least one of the test sheets are substantially isolated from each other. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of test regions are screened for a fabric property of interest. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the contacted test fluids are screened for a fabric property of interest. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the test fluid is a fabric-care composition. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the test sheets comprises a flexible sheet. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the test sheets comprises a rigid sheet. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the two or more test sheets is dyed. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein at least one of the two or more test sheets is substantially free of dye prior to contact with said test fluid. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the porous material comprises cellulose. 12. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material comprises silica. 13. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material comprises ceramic materials. 14. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the property of interest is polymer adsorption. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the different test fluids vary with respect to composition. 16. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the plurality of test regions are screened using a spectroscopic technique. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the different test fluids vary with respect to viscosity. 18. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material is disposed on a sheet having non-porous regions. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the test fluid comprises one or more components selected from the group consisting of polymers, surfactants, dyes, bleaches, perfumes, buffers, electrolytes, builders, sequestering agents, and flame retardants. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the different test fluids vary with respect to one or more properties of the polymer component selected from the group consisting of chemical composition, hydrophilicity, molecular weight, molecular weight distribution, viscosity, acidity, dipolar characteristics, charge, and hydrogen-bonding characteristics. 21. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material comprises a filter media. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the polymer component varies between different test fluids with respect to composition, hydrophilicity, molecular weight, or molecular weight distribution. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the plurality of test regions are simultaneously screened for the property of interest. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein the different test fluids vary with respect to one or more properties of the polymer component selected from the group consisting of chemical composition, molecular weight, and molecular weight distribution. 25. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; and measuring concentration of the polymer in the test fluid before and after contact of the test fluid with said test regions. 26. A method for evaluating test fluids for interaction with a porous medium, where a polymer is a component of the test fluids or of a composition of the porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, each of the plurality of test regions comprising a different composition, the test fluids or the different compositions of the porous medium comprising a polymer; simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a test fluid; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the test fluids or of the different porous material compositions; and performing colorimetric analysis of the test regions of the test sheet. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the porous material is a treated array prepared by a method which includes simultaneously treating each of the plurality of test regions with a plurality of treatment fluids, the plurality of treatment fluids differing between the plurality of test regions. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the different compositions comprise one or more polymers absorbed onto the test sheet of porous material, the one or more polymers varying between the different compositions. 29. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material comprises sintered metal materials. 30. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material comprises plastic materials. 31. A method for evaluating test fluids comprising polymers for interaction with a porous medium, the method comprising: providing a test sheet of porous material comprising a plurality of test regions, simultaneously contacting each of the plurality of test regions with a different test fluid, each of the test fluids comprising a polymer component, the different test fluids varying with respect to a chemical or physical property; and screening the plurality of test regions or the contacted test fluids for a property of interest to evaluate the relative efficacy of the different test fluids; wherein the porous material comprises alumina. 