A multi-well plate comprising a plurality of discrete tubes held together in an array by a plate portion, characterised in that one or more section lines are provided in the plate portion in pre-determined regions, said section lines being adapted to facilitate dividing up the multi-well plate into sub-units of a pre-determined size.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-well plate of the type used for PCR reactions, said plate comprising a plurality of discrete tubes held together in an array by a plate portion, the plate portion being sub-divided into adjacent sub-units of a pre-determined size by one or more slits extending substantially across the width of the plate portion, the slits extending through the entire thickness of the plate portion, the adjacent sub-units being connected by one or more connecting regions associated with each of said slits, said connection regions being formed by substantially circular regions which extend across the slits, said circular regions being weakened around their circumferences to facilitate removal from said plate portion, the arrangement of slits and connecting regions being adapted to facilitate dividing up the multi-well plate into said sub-units of pre-determined size which will then fit into a thermal cycler without interfering with each other. 2. A multi-well plate as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plate incorporates a skirt around the perimeter of the plate in order to increase the rigidity of the plate. 3. A multi-well plate as claimed in claim 2 wherein the skirt incorporates apertures at strategic points to facilitate robotic handling. 4. A multi-well plate according to claim 1, wherein the connecting regions are partially punched out around their circumferences to facilitate removal from said plate portion. 5. A multi-well plate according to claim 1, wherein said slits have a width within the range from 0.1 mm to 1 mm. 6. A multi-well plate according to claim 1, wherein said slits have a width of approximately 0.5 mm. 7. A multi-well plate according to claim 1, further comprising end portions removably attached to said plate portion, said end portions being defined by one of said slits positioned between said plate portion and said end portion and being attached to said plate portion by said connecting regions. 8. A multi-well plate of the type used for PCR reactions, said plate comprising a plurality of discrete tubes held together in an array by a plate portion, said plate portion being sub-divided into a plurality of adjacent sub-units by one or more slits extending substantially cross said plate portion, the adjacent sub-units being connected by a plurality of connecting regions, said connecting regions being formed by substantially circular regions which extend across the slits, said circular regions being weakened around their circumferences to facilitate removal from said plate portion, the plate portion further comprising detachable end portions, the end portions being devoid of tubes and being defined by said slits and connected to said adjacent sub-units by a plurality of said connecting regions. 9. A multi-well plate according to claim 8, wherein said slits have a width within the range from 0.1 mm to 1 mm. 10. A multi-well plate according to claim 8, wherein said slits have a width of approximately 0.5 mm. 