Operations along a track suffering some track anomaly are resumed by bridging the anomaly with a robotic device. The track supports operation of a plurality of robotic devices. The anomaly prevents the flow of electrical current from reaching an affected section of the track. A robotic device is moved to the anomaly so that electrical current flows into a first pickup on the robotic device located on one side of the anomaly and out of a second pickup on the robotic device located on another side of the anomaly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for recovering from an anomaly in a data storage library, the data storage library having a plurality of robotic devices traveling along a rail for accessing data storage devices, the method comprising: determining that a first robotic device on the rail has become inoperative; moving a second robotic device along the rail, the second robotic device having a first pickup and a second pickup spaced apart in a direction of travel along the rail, each of the first pickup and the second pickup contacting a conductor extending along the rail, the robotic device forming a current-carrying path between the first pickup and the second pickup; halting the second robotic device at an anomaly in the conductor such that the first pickup is on one side of the anomaly and the second pickup is on the other side of the anomaly, thereby permitting current to flow around the anomaly; and operating the first robotic device with the current flowing around the anomaly. 2. A method for recovering from an anomaly along a rail in a data storage library as in claim 1 wherein the first pickup and the second pickup are each portions of a single, wide conducting element and wherein the current-carrying path is through the single, wide conducting element. 3. A method for recovering from an anomaly along a rail in a data storage library as in claim 1 wherein the first pickup is a first brush and the second pickup is a second brush and wherein the current-carrying path is through a conductor in series with the first brush and the second brush. 4. A method for recovering from an anomaly along a rail in a data storage library as in claim 1 further comprising moving the first robotic device off a section of rail affected by the anomaly. 5. A method for recovering from an anomaly along a rail in a data storage library as in claim 1 further comprising remembering a location of the anomaly. 6. A method for recovering from an anomaly along a rail in a data storage library as in claim 5 further comprising: moving the second robotic device away from the anomaly; and moving the second robotic device to the remembered anomaly location whereby current is permitted to flow around the anomaly. 7. A data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations for holding data storage media disposed within the library; a rail disposed within the library located to provide access to the storage locations; a conductor on the rail; at least two robotic devices operative to travel along the rail, each robotic device accessing storage media held in the storage locations, each robotic device having at least one pickup drawing power from the conductor; and a controller in communication with each robotic device, the controller operative to: (a) determine that a first robotic device cannot respond to commands from the controller in an affected area of the rail due to an anomaly in the conductor affecting current flow through the conductor in the affected area, and (b) move a second robotic device along the rail until the second device at least one pickup spans the anomaly to permit current flow around the anomaly. 8. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the at least one pickup is a single, wide conductive element. 9. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the at least one pickup is at least two pickups spaced apart along a direction of travel of the robot along the rail, at least two pickups forming part of a conductive circuit for spanning the anomaly. 10. A data storage library as in claim 7 further comprising a mechanism for moving the first robotic device off the rail. 11. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the controller is further operative to remember the location of the anomaly. 12. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the controller communicates with each robotic device through the conductor. 13. A method of compensating for an anomaly in a data storage library track, the track supporting operation of a plurality of robotic devices, the anomaly preventing the flow of electrical current from reaching an affected section of the track, the method comprising moving a robotic device to the anomaly so that electrical current flows into a first pickup on the robotic device located on one side of the anomaly and out of a second pickup on the robotic device located on another side of the anomaly. 14. A method of compensating for an anomaly in a data storage library track as in claim 13 wherein the robotic device is a first robotic device, the method further comprising commanding a second robotic device to access at least one data storage device by moving along the affected section of track after the first robotic device moves to the anomaly. 15. A method of compensating for an anomaly in a data storage library track as in claim 13 wherein the first pickup and the second pickup are part of a wide conductive element. 16. A method of compensating for an anomaly in a data storage library track as in claim 13 wherein the first pickup is a first brush and the second pickup is a second brush, the robotic device forming a conductive path between the first brush and the second brush. 17. A method of compensating for an anomaly in a data storage library track as in claim 13 further comprising remembering a location of the robotic device when the robotic device is positioned to permit electrical current to flow into the first pickup on the robotic device located on one side of the anomaly and out of the second pickup on the robotic device located on another side of the anomaly. 18. A method of compensating for an anomaly in a data storage library track as in claim 13 further comprising detecting the location of the anomaly based on the amount of electrical current flowing into the first pickup and flowing out of the second pickup. 