The invention is a carrier that determines if a wafer has been properly loaded. The carrier includes a body having a cavity covered by a membrane, thereby forming an initial plenum. One or more annular ribs may extend from the body to the membrane to divide the initial plenum into a plurality of plenums. A sensor is positioned within one of the plenums to detect the presence of the wafer. Pump(s) with pressure regulators may be used to pressurize the plenum(s). A first plenum may be pressurized sufficient to hold the wafer to the membrane by creating a partial vacuum between the membrane and the wafer. A second plenum may be pressurized sufficient to urge the membrane away from the sensor if the wafer is not properly loaded in the carrier. If the membrane is near the sensor, the wafer has been properly loaded into the carrier.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A carrier for planarizing a front surface of a wafer comprising: a) a body having a cavity; b) a membrane covering the cavity thereby forming a plenum; and c) a capacitive sensor positioned within the plenum. 2. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the capacitive sensor is mounted to the body. 3. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the membrane has a notch for receiving a portion of the capacitive sensor. 4. The carrier of claim 1 further comprising: d) a pump; and e) a pathway from the pump to the plenum. 5. The carrier of claim 1 further comprising: d) a remote amplifier in communication with the capacitive sensor; and e) a control system in communication with the remote amplifier. 6. A multizone carrier for planarizing a front surface of a wafer comprising: a) a body having a first cavity; b) at least one annular rib extending from the body thereby dividing the first cavity into a plurality of cavities; c) a membrane covering the plurality of cavities thereby forming a plurality of plenums; and d) a sensor positioned in one of the plurality of plenums. 7. The carrier of claim 6 wherein the sensor comprises a capacitive sensor. 8. The carrier of claim 6 wherein the sensor is mounted to the body. 9. The carrier of claim 6 wherein the membrane has a notch for receiving a portion of the sensor. 10. The carrier of claim 6 further comprising: e) a pump; and f) a pathways from the pump to one of the plurality of plenums. 11. The carrier of claim 6 further comprising: e) a remote amplifier in communication with the sensor; and f) a control system in communication with the remote amplifier. 12. An apparatus for planarizing a front surface of a wafer comprising: a) a body having a cavity; b) a membrane, for supporting a wafer, covering the cavity thereby forming an initial plenum; c) a capacitive sensor positioned within the initial plenum; d) a planten for supporting a polishing surface; and e) a motion generator for causing relative motion between the wafer and the polishing surface. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: f) at least one annular rib extending from the body to the membrane thereby dividing the initial plenum into a plurality of plenums. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the sensor is mounted to the body. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the membrane has a notch for receiving a portion of the sensor. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: e) a pump; and f) a pathway from the pump to one of the plurality of plenums. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the motion generator orbits the polishing surface. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the motion generator rotates the polishing surface. 19. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the motion generator linearly moves the polishing surface. 20. An apparatus for planarizing a front surface of a wafer comprising: a) a body having a cavity; b) a membrane, for supporting a wafer, covering the cavity thereby forming an initial plenum; c) a sensor positioned within the initial plenum; d) a planten for supporting a polishing surface; e) a motion generator for causing relative motion between the wafer and the polishing surface; f) a carousel apparatus for transporting the body to the polishing surface; and g) at least one annular rib extending from the body to the membrane thereby dividing the initial plenum into a plurality of plenums. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the sensor comprises a capacitive sensor. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the sensor is mounted to the body. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the membrane has a notch for receiving a portion of the sensor. 24. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising: g) a pump; and h) a pathway from the pump to one of the plurality of plenums. 25. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the motion generator orbits the polishing surface. 26. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the motion generator rotates the polishing surface. 27. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the motion generator linearly moves the polishing surface. 28. An apparatus for planarizing a front surface of a wafer comprising: a) a body having a cavity; b) a membrane, for supporting a wafer, covering the cavity thereby forming an initial plenum; c) a capacitive sensor positioned within the initial plenum; d) a platen for supporting a polishing surface; e) a motion generator for causing relative motion between the wafer and the polishing surface; and f) a manifold positioned beneath the platen for distributing a fluid to the polishing surface. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising: g) at least one annular rib extending from the body to the membrane thereby dividing the initial plenum into a plurality of plenums. 30. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the sensor is mounted to the body. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the membrane has a notch for receiving a portion of the sensor. 32. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising: g) a pump; and h) a pathway from the pump to one of the plurality of plenums. 33. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the motion generator orbits the polishing surface. 34. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the motion generator rotates the polishing surface. 35. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the motion generator linearly moves the polishing surface. 36. A method of detecting whether a wafer is present in a carrier comprising the steps of: a) positioning a back surface of a wafer against a membrane of a carrier; and b) capacitively sensing whether the wafer is present in the carrier through the use of a capacitive sensor. 37. A method of detecting whether a wafer is present in a carrier comprising the steps of: a) positioning a back surface of a wafer against a membrane of a carrier having a first and second plenum; b) applying a first pressure in the first plenum sufficient to retain the wafer by creating a partial vacuum between the membrane and the wafer; and c) capacitively sensing whether the wafer is present in the carrier. 38. The method of claim 37 further comprising the step of: d) prior to step c), applying a second pressure in the second plenum, wherein the second pressure is sufficient to urge the membrane away from the sensor if the wafer is not retained in the carrier and is insufficient to urge the membrane away from the sensor if the wafer is retained in the carrier. 39. The method of claim 38 further comprising the step of polishing the wafer if the wafer is retained in the carrier. 40. The method of claim 38 further comprising the step of terminating the polishing procedure if the wafer is not retained in the carrier. 