An endoscope apparatus and method of operating the same. The endoscope apparatus comprises an endoscope portion and a control and display unit. The endoscope portion preferably comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of the endoscope portion and providing endoscope data; (ii) one or more electronically controlled actuators (e.g., electroactive polymer actuators) controlling the operation of the endoscope portion based on received control signals; (iii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the one or more electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the one or more electronically controlled actuators; and (iv) a portable power source (e.g., a battery) coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the one or more electronically controller actuators. The control and display unit preferably comprises: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in the endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver; (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via the first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from the sensor via the first and second wireless transceivers. Another aspect of the present invention is directed to a method for providing single-use endoscopes to one or more hospitals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of examining a body lumen comprising: providing an operator with an endoscope apparatus, said endoscope apparatus comprising: (a) an endoscope portion, which further comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of said endoscope portion and providing endoscope data; (ii) one or more electronically controlled actuators controlling operation of the endoscope portion based on received control signals; (iii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the one or more electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the one or more electronically controlled actuators; and (iv) a portable power source coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the one or more electronically controller actuators; and (b) a control and display unit comprising: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in said endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver; (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via said first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from said sensor via said first and second wireless transceivers; inserting said endoscope portion of said endoscope apparatus into a body lumen while controlling the shape of said endoscope portion using said control portion; and examining said body lumen using said sensor of said endoscope portion, wherein said endoscope apparatus further comprises a remote server coupled to the control and display unit, and wherein said remote server is adapted to track endoscope inventory. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said portable power source comprises a battery. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said control and display unit comprises a personal computer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said control portion further comprises a manual steering device converting manual movements into the control signals to be sent to the one or more actuators via the first and second wireless transceivers. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said steering device comprises a joystick. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises an energy source outputting energy and an imaging detector detecting reflected energy. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said energy source comprises a light source. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said light source comprises a light emitting diode. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein said imaging detector comprises a camera. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said camera comprises a CMOS camera. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said endoscope portion further comprises a working channel. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said endoscope portion further comprises a control handle operable by a user, disposed at a proximal end of said endoscope portion, and integrated into said endoscope portion at said proximal end. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said portable power source and said wireless interface are disposed within said control handle. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said control and display unit further comprises a network access device to access said remote server over a network. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said network access device comprises a modem. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said remote server is further adapted to perform patient scheduling. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said remote server comprises a database of patient data and examination images. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said first transceiver communicates identifying data for said endoscope portion automatically to said control and display unit. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising conducting a surgical procedure within said lumen using said endoscope apparatus. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said endoscope portion is a single use endoscope portion, and wherein said method further comprises disposing of said endoscope portion after use. 21. A method of examining a body lumen comprising: providing an operator with an endoscope apparatus, said endoscope apparatus comprising: (a) an endoscope portion, which further comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of said endoscope portion and providing endoscope data; (ii) one or more electronically controlled actuators controlling operation of the endoscope portion based on received control signals; (iii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the one or more electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the one or more electronically controlled actuators; and (iv) a portable power source coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the one or more electronically controller actuators; and (b) a control and display unit comprising: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in said endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver; (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via said first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from said sensor via said first and second wireless transceivers; inserting said endoscope portion of said endoscope apparatus into a body lumen while controlling the shape of said endoscope portion using said control portion; and examining said body lumen using said sensor of said endoscope portion, wherein said endoscope apparatus further comprises a remote server coupled to the control and display unit, and wherein said remote server is adapted to perform patient scheduling. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein said control and display unit comprises a personal computer. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein said control portion further comprises a manual steering device converting manual movements by an operator to control signals for said one or more actuators, wherein said operator operates said manual steering device to control said actuators. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein said sensor comprises a light source and a camera. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein said remote server further comprises a database and said remote server is adapted to access patient data and images stored within said database. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein data identifying said endoscope portion is automatically sent from said endoscope portion to said control and display unit. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein said endoscope portion is a single use endoscope portion, and wherein said method further comprises disposing of said endoscope portion after use. 28. A method of examining a body lumen comprising: providing an operator with an endoscope apparatus, said endoscope apparatus comprising: (a) an endoscope portion, which further comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of said endoscope portion and providing endoscope data: (ii) a plurality of electronically controlled, electroactive polymer actuators, said actuators controlling the shape of the endoscope portion in 3-dimensional space based on received control signals; (iii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the one or more electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the one or more electronically controlled actuators; and (iv) a portable power source coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the one or more electronically controller actuators; and (b) a control and display unit comprising: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in said endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver: (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via said first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from said sensor via said first and second wireless transceivers; inserting said endoscope portion of said endoscope apparatus into a body lumen while controlling the shape of said endoscope portion using said control portion; and examining said body lumen using said sensor of said endoscope portion, wherein said endoscope apparatus further comprises a remote server coupled to the control and display unit and wherein said remote server is adapted to track endoscope portion inventory. 29. A method of examining a body lumen comprising: providing an operator with an endoscope apparatus, said endoscope apparatus comprising: (a) an endoscope portion, which further comprises: (i) a sensor disposed at a distal end of said endoscope portion and providing endoscope data: (ii) a plurality of electronically controlled, electroactive polymer actuators, said actuators controlling the shape of the endoscope portion in 3-dimensional space based on received control signals; (iii) a first wireless transceiver coupled to the sensor and the one or more electronically controlled actuators, transmitting received endoscope data from the sensor and forwarding received control signals to the one or more electronically controlled actuators; and (iv) a portable power source coupled to the sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the one or more electronically controller actuators; and (b) a control and display unit comprising: (i) a second wireless transceiver coupled via a wireless link to the first transceiver in said endoscope portion and receiving endoscope data from the first transceiver and transmitting control signals to the first transceiver: (ii) a control portion coupled to the second wireless transceiver and sending control signals to the one or more actuators in the endoscope portion via said first and second wireless transceivers; and (iii) a display portion that displays information received from said sensor via said first and second wireless transceivers; inserting said endoscope portion of said endoscope apparatus into a body lumen while controlling the shape of said endoscope portion using said control portion; and examining said body lumen using said sensor of said endoscope portion, wherein said endoscope apparatus further comprises a remote server coupled to the control and display unit and wherein said remote server is adapted to perform patient scheduling. 