Disclosed is a microarray printing system and methods of printing probe microarrays. The system has a print head formed of one or more bundles of individual capillaries, such as light-guiding capillaries. The bundles may especially be random bundles of capillaries that provide a large number of probes on the surface of a substrate. Methods of registering or correlating the distal and proximal ends of the capillaries are also provided. Further, the invention provides methods and equipment for identifying defective microarrays that are missing one or more probes from the surface of the microarray.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A capillary bundle comprising a plurality of individual capillaries having proximal and distal ends, each of said capillaries having a wall defining a channel extending from the proximal end to the distal end of the capillary, wherein said proximal ends of the individual capillaries are secured to one another in a solid mass of a static array containing capillaries at a density of at least about 83 capillaries per square centimeter, and the proximal ends of the individual capillaries terminate within about 100 microns of one another. 2. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein said proximal ends of the individual capillaries terminate within about 20 microns of one another. 3. A capillary bundle according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said plurality of capillaries comprises a light-conducting capillary that transports light from the distal end to the proximal end of the capillary. 4. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of capillaries are secured to one another to form a random bundle so that the distal ends of the capillaries are grouped in a first arrangement, the proximal ends are grouped in a second arrangement, and the first arrangement is not identical to the second arrangement. 5. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein said bundle comprises at least about 1000 capillaries. 6. A method of printing a microarray comprising passing a plurality of liquids containing biological materials though the plurality of individual capillaries of a capillary bundle according to claim 1, and printing said microarray on a substrate. 7. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein said plurality of capillaries comprises a light-conducting capillary that transports light from the distal end to the proximal end of the capillary. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein said plurality of capillaries are secured to one another to form a random bundle so that the distal ends of the capillaries are grouped in a first arrangement, the proximal ends are grouped in a second arrangement, and the first arrangement is not identical to the second arrangement. 9. A capillary bundle comprising a plurality of light-guiding capillaries, each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries having a wall defining a channel and said wall comprising a region of high refractive index surrounded by a region of lower refractive index along the length of the capillary, wherein each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries is capable of transporting light and a liquid from a distal end to a proximal end of the capillary simultaneously and the proximal ends of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries are bundled together and contain capillaries at a density of at least about 83 capillaries per square centimeter. 10. A capillary bundle according to claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries contains a liquid comprising a biological material selected from the group consisting of deoxyribonucleic acids, ribonucleic acids, synthetic oligonucleotides, antibodies, cells, tissue, proteins, peptides, lectins, fluorophores, chromophores, chelates, haptens, and drug compounds. 11. A capillary bundle according to claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries has an outer diameter of less than 200 microns. 12. A capillary bundle according to claim 9, wherein said bundle comprises at least about 1000 capillaries. 13. A capillary bundle according to claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries has an outer diameter of less than about 300 micron. 14. A capillary bundle according to claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries has an outer diameter of less than about 100 micron. 15. A capillary bundle according to claim 9, wherein each of said plurality of light-guiding capillaries comprises doped silica. 16. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of capillaries has an outer diameter of less than about 300 micron. 17. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of capillaries has an outer diameter of less than 200 micron. 18. A capillary bundle according to claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of capillaries has an outer diameter of less than about 100 micron. 19. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein said proximal ends of the individual capillaries of the capillary bundle terminate within about 20 microns of one another. 20. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein said bundle comprises at least about 1000 capillaries. 21. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of capillaries has an outer diameter of less than about 300 micron. 22. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of capillaries has an outer diameter of less than 200 micron. 23. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein each of said plurality of capillaries has an outer diameter of less than about 100 micron. 24. A method of printing according to claim 6, wherein each of said liquids comprises a biological material selected from the group consisting of deoxyribonucleic acids, ribonucleic acids, synthetic oligonucleotides, antibodies, cells, tissue, proteins, peptides, lectins, fluorophores, chromophores, chelates, haptens, and drug compounds. 