Releasable leads having an elongated fixed portion extend over a surface defined by a dielectric material of a component or by a semiconductor body. A semiconductor element having a conductive structure connected to a set of contacts is also disclosed. A method of making the conductive structure is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A component for making microelectronic connections, comprising: (a) a first element having a dielectric material defining a first surface; and (b) a plurality of leads having elongated trace portions extending over the first surface and secured to the dielectric element, each said lead having a curved releasable portion extending over the first surface, the releasable portion having a tip end remote from the elongated portion, the releasable portion of each said lead being releasable from said first surface while said elongated portion remains secured to said semiconductor body. 2. The component of claim 1, wherein the releasable portion is curved in a plane parallel to the plane of the first surface of the first element. 3. The component of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of conductive terminal structures adapted for connection to an external substrate, the leads being electrically connected to said terminal structures. 4. The component of claim 2, wherein each of the terminal structures is secured to said first element and is disposed at an end of the elongated portion remote from said tip end. 5. The component of claim 3, wherein said first element comprises a sheet of dielectric material, said conductive terminal structures extending through said sheet. 6. The component of claim 4, wherein each said lead has an electrically conductive bonding material at said tip end. 7. The component of claim 5, wherein said sheet is flexible. 8. The component of claim 6, wherein said leads include gold and said bonding material includes at least one metal selected from the group consisting of tin, germanium and silicon. 9. The component of claim 1, wherein the first element comprises a plurality of tiles. 10. The component of claim 1, wherein said elongated portions extend outwardly toward the periphery of the first element. 11. The component of claim 10, wherein said releasable portions of said leads are disposed in a central area of said first element. 12. The component of claim 10, wherein the releasable portions of said leads are disposed in a peripheral area of said first element. 13. The component of claim 9, further comprising a support structure having a degradable connecting layer. 14. A semiconductor element comprising: (a) a semiconductor body having a surface, contacts and circuits within said body connected to said contacts; and (b) a plurality of leads having terminal ends connected to said contacts, elongated trace portions extending over the surface of the semiconductor body and secured to the semiconductor body, and a curved releasable portion with a tip end remote from the contact end, the releasable portion of each said lead being releasable from said surface of said semiconductor body while said elongated portion remains secured to said semiconductor body. 15. The element of claim 14, wherein each said lead has an electrically conductive bonding material at said tip end. 16. The element of claim 14, wherein said semiconductor body comprises a semiconductor chip. 17. The element of claim 14, wherein said semiconductor body comprises a semiconductor wafer. 18. The element of claim 15, wherein said leads include gold and said bonding material includes at least one metal selected from the group consisting of tin, germanium and silicon. 19. The element of claim 14, wherein the releasable portion is curved in a plane parallel to the plane of the surface of the semiconductor body. 20. The element of claim 14, wherein said semiconductor body comprises a semiconductor wafer incorporating a plurality of chips, each said chip having a top surface and contacts disposed in a central region of the chip top surface. 21. The element of claim 20, wherein said elongated portions comprise trace portions extending outwardly from said contacts. 22. The element of claim 20, wherein said elongated portions comprise trace portions extending inwardly from contacts adjacent a peripheral region of said chip top surface. 23. A method of making a semiconductor assembly, comprising: (a) forming leads in place on a semiconductor body having a surface, contacts and circuits within said body connected to said contacts, said contacts including at least one set of contacts exposed at said surface so that the contacts belonging to said set are in proximity to one another, said leads being formed so as to overlie said surface; (b) the step of forming including depositing a first lead-forming metal over said surface so as to form a first conductor connected to a first contact of said at least one set of contacts, depositing a dielectric material overlying the first conductor, and depositing a second lead-forming metal so as to form a second conductor overlying said first conductor and in contact with a second contact of said at least one set of contacts, whereby the dielectric layer insulates the first conductor from the second conductor. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said semiconductor body has a passivation layer defining said surface. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising providing a semiconductor body includes the step of providing openings in said passivation layer aligned with said first contacts and said second contacts. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of forming leads includes depositing a sacrificial layer before the step of depositing the first lead-forming metal. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the sacrificial layer comprises a passivation layer on said semiconductor body, said passivation layer defining said surface. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein a first opening is formed in said sacrificial layer before the step of depositing said first lead-forming metal, the first opening being aligned with said first contact. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the first lead-forming metal is deposited so as to form an elongated lead and includes depositing metal in said first opening. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the step of depositing a dielectric material over said first lead-forming metal comprises selectively patterning said dielectric material. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the selectively patterning includes removing portions of the dielectric material aligned with the second contact. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein portions of the sacrificial layer aligned with the second contact are removed to form a second opening before the step of depositing said second lead-forming metal and wherein said second lead-forming metal is deposited in said opening. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein said second lead-forming metal is deposited so as to form elongated leads. 34. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of removing portions of the sacrificial layer so as to leave anchors connecting the first conductor to the surface of said semiconductor body. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein said anchors releasably connect said first conductor to said surface of said semiconductor body. 36. The method of claim 23, wherein said semiconductor body includes at least one electronic element connected to said set of contacts. 37. The method of claim 23, wherein said first lead-forming metal, dielectric material and second lead-forming metal are deposited so as to form an elongated multiconductor lead. 38. A semiconductor element, comprising: (a) a semiconductor body having a first internal electronic element connected to a set of contacts exposed at a surface of said semiconductor body so that the contacts belonging to said set are in proximity to one another; (b) a conductive structure overlying said surface and being connected to said set of contacts, said conductive structure comprising a first conductor connected to a first contact of said set of contacts and a second conductor connected to a second contact of said set of contacts. 39. The semiconductor element of claim 38, wherein said semiconductor body comprises a semiconductor wafer. 40. The semiconductor element of claim 39, wherein said semiconductor wafer incorporates a plurality of semiconductor chips, one of said chips having said set of contacts. 41. The semiconductor element of claim 40, wherein at least one other of said chips has a set of contacts connected to a second internal electronic element. 42. The semiconductor element of claim 38, wherein said conductive structure comprises a second conductor overlying a first conductor, said first conductor and said second conductor comprising elongated conductive elements. 43. The semiconductor element of claim 42, wherein said conductive structure comprises a first dielectric layer disposed between said first conductor and said second conductor, said dielectric layer comprising an elongated element of dielectric material, said conductive structure comprising a multiconductor lead. 44. The semiconductor element of claim 43, wherein said conductive structure comprises a signal conductor and a ground plane conductor. 45. The semiconductor element of claim 44, wherein said conductive structure comprises a first signal conductor and a second signal conductor. 46. The semiconductor element of claim 43, further comprising a second dielectric layer and a third conductor. 47. The semiconductor element of claim 43, wherein said first conductor has a tip end remote from said first contact and further comprising an anchor connected to said tip end and to said semiconductor element, said anchor releasably connecting said tip end to said semiconductor body. 48. The semiconductor element of claim 47, wherein said semiconductor element comprises a sacrificial layer having holes aligned with said first contact and said second contact. 49. The semiconductor element of claim 48, wherein said sacrificial layer comprises a passivation layer. 50. The semiconductor element of claim 48, wherein said semiconductor body has a passivation layer. 