A robotic system that moves a surgical instrument in response to the actuation of a control panel that can be operated by the surgeon. The robotic system has an end effector that is adapted to hold a surgical instrument such as an endoscope. The end effector is coupled to a robotic arm assembly which can move the endoscope relative to the patient. The system includes a computer which controls the movement of the robotic arm in response to input signals received from the control panel. The robotic system is mounted to a cart which can be wheeled to and from an operating table. The cart has a clamping mechanism which attaches the cart to the table. The system also contains a spring loaded mount plate that allows the robotic arm to be rotated and adjusted relative to the cart and the patient. Both the robotic arm and the control panel are encapsulated by protective bags that prevent the system from being contaminated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system that allows a user to control a movement of an endoscope, the endoscope being located within first coordinate system that has a left-right axis and an up-down axis which are orthogonal to each other and to a longitudinal axis of the endoscope, comprising: a first actuator located within a second coordinate system; a second actuator that is coupled to said first actuator and located in the second coordinate system, said first and second actuators being capable of moving the endoscope; an input device that can receive a command from the user to move the endoscope along the up-down axis in the first coordinate system; a controller that receives the user command and transforms the movement of the endoscope in the first coordinate system to a movement of the endoscope in the second coordinate system, and provides output signals to move said first and second actuators in the second coordinate system so that the endoscope moves along the up-down axis of the first coordinate system regardless of the orientation of the second coordinate system with respect to the first coordinate system. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a third actuator coupled to said second actuator and located within the second coordinate system. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an end effector that is coupled to said controller and spins the endoscope. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said input device is a foot pedal. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second actuators include electric motors. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a first position sensor coupled to said first actuator and a second position sensor coupled to said second actuator. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller transforms the movement of the endoscope in the first coordinate system to movement of the endoscope in the second coordinate system in accordance with a plurality of transformation equations said first and second actuators. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a table that is coupled to said first and second actuators. 9. A medical system that can be controlled by a user, comprising: a first actuator located within a first coordinate system; a second actuator that is coupled to said first actuator and located in the first coordinate system; an endoscope that is coupled to said first and second actuators, said endoscope being located within an second coordinate system that has a left-right axis and an up-down axis which are orthogonal to each other, and to a longitudinal axis of the endoscope; an input device that can receive a command from the user to move the endoscope along the up-down axis in the second coordinate system; and, a controller that receives the user command and transforms the movement of the endoscope in the second coordinate system to a movement of the endoscope in the first coordinate system, and provides output signals to move said first and second actuators in the first coordinate system so that the endoscope moves along the up-down axis of the second coordinate system regardless of the orientation of the first coordinate system with resnect to the second coordinate system. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising a third actuator coupled to said second actuator and located within the first coordinate system. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising an end effector that is coupled to said controller and spins the endoscope. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein said input device is a foot pedal include electric motors. 13. The system of claim 9, further comprising a first position sensor coupled to said first actuator and a second position sensor coupled to said second actuator. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein said controller transforms the movement of the endoscope in the first coordinate system to movement of the endoscope in the second coordinate system in accordance with a plurality of transformation equations. 15. The system of claim 9, further comprising a table that is coupled to said first and second actuators. 16. A method for controlling a movement of an endoscope, comprising: inputting a command to move an endoscope along an up-down axis of a first coordinate system, wherein the up-down axis and a left-right axis are orthogonal to each other and a longitudinal axis of the endoscope; transforming the command to move the endoscope in the first coordinate system to a movement in a second coordinate system; and sending output signals to move a first actuator and a second actuator in the second coordinate system so that the endoscope moves along the up-down axis of the first coordinate system regardless of the orientation of the second coordinate system with respect to the first coordinate system. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the endoscope is spun. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the transformation between the first coordinate system and the second coordinate system is performed in accordance with a plurality of transformation equations. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the endoscope pivots about a pivot point formed at an incision of a patient. 