A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a medical robotic system, comprising: plugging a robotic arm and a medical instrument to a communication network, the robotic arm supporting a first medical instrument; plugging a first surgeon console to the communication network, the first surgeon console comprising a first processor and a first input device coupled to the first processor for controlling the robotic arm and the first medical instrument; plugging a second surgeon console to the communication network, the second surgeon console comprising a second processor and a second input device coupled to the second processor for controlling the robotic arm and the first medical instrument; and independently sending and receiving information across the network: i) between the first surgeon console and the robotic arm; and ii) between the second surgeon console and the robotic arm. 2. A method as in claim 1, further comprising plugging a second robotic arm and a second medical instrument to the communication network. 3. A method as in claim 1, further comprising controlling the first robotic arm and the first medical instrument with the first surgeon console, and controlling the second robotic arm and the second medical instrument with the second surgeon console. 4. A method as in claim 3, further comprising switching control of the robotic arms in response to data transmitted on the network so that the first surgeon console controls the second robotic arm and the second instrument. 5. A method as in claim 1, further comprising overriding the first surgeon console with the second surgeon console in response to data transmitted on the network. 6. A method as in claim 1, wherein the second surgeon console is plugged to the communication network while the first surgeon console is controlling the first robotic arm and first medical instrument. 7. A method as in claim 2, wherein the second robotic arm and second instrument are plugged to the communication network while the first surgeon console is controlling the first robotic arm and first medical instrument. 8. A method as in claim 2, further comprising removing the first robotic arm from the network while the second robotic arm is being controlled. 9. A method as in claim 2, further comprising inputting a control signal from the first input device, transmitting the control signal across the network, and controlling the first robotic arm and first medical instrument according to the control signal. 10. A method as in claim 9, wherein inputting a control signal comprises moving a handle to define a movement input for control of the robotic arm and medical instrument. 11. A method as in claim 9, further comprising transmitting the information in packets of data. 12. A method as in claim 11, wherein each packet contains a priority field and a data field, the priority field defining the priority of the input device, and wherein transmitting the data comprises routing the data across the network in accordance with the priority field. 13. A method as in claim 12, further comprising inputting a control signal from the second input device, transmitting the control signal across the network, and controlling the first robotic arm and first medical instrument according to the control signal, wherein the first medical instrument ignores a command from the first surgeon console as a result of the first surgeon console having a lower priority than the second surgical console. 14. A method as in claim 12, further comprising articulating the first robotic arm in response to an input command from robotic data contained in the data field. 15. A method as in claim 14, wherein transmitting the control signal across the network comprises transmitting the robotic data as absolute position data. 16. A method as in claim 12, wherein transmitting the control signal across the network comprises transmitting the robotic data as RS232 data. 17. A method as in claim 16, wherein transmitting the control signal comprises transmitting instrument scaling data as RS232 data. 18. A method as in claim 16, wherein transmitting the control signal comprises transmitting the RS232 data in sequential order, and wherein the RS232 data must be received sequentially in order for control of the first robotic arm and first medical instrument to be effected. 19. A method as in claim 15, further comprising articulating the first robotic arm in response to incomplete transmission of the absolute position data. 20. A method as in claim 15, further comprising transmitting the absolute position data using a UDP/IP protocol. 21. A method as in claim 19, further comprising disregarding late data packets. 22. A method as in claim 12, wherein the packet further comprises a destination ID field, the destination ID field identifying which of the medical instruments the data is to be routed, and wherein transmitting the data comprises transmitting the data to the appropriate medical instrument according to the destination ID field. 23. A method as in claim 2, wherein plugging the second robotic arm and the second medical instrument to the communication network comprises plugging an endoscope to the network. 24. A method as in claim 1, wherein the communication network comprises one or more of the following: the internet, a wide area network (WAN), a local area network (LAN), a public switched telephone network (PSTN), an integrated services digital network (ISDN). 