Surgical accessories are presented in vivo and used by surgical tools in the surgical site to perform additional tasks without the need to remove the tools from the surgical site for tool change or instrument loading. Some accessories need to be actuated to effect a predetermined treatment, such as an aortic punch, clamps, pliers, and the like. For such accessories, the actuation can conveniently be performed by an operator such as an assistant remotely from outside the patient's body while placement of the accessories takes place in the surgical site by manipulating the accessories using robotic surgical tools in the site. A lockdown feature may be incorporated in accessories to lock them in place remotely from outside the surgical site upon actuation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one non-robotic surgical accessory into the cavity, the accessory not coupled to an end effector of a robotic surgical tool when introduced; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after separately introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and actuating the surgical accessory from outside the cavity of the patient to effect a predetermined treatment. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the surgical accessory includes a member movable between a rest position and an actuated position, and wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises moving the movable member toward the actuated position. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the movable member of the surgical accessory is coupled with an actuation member having a proximal portion disposed outside of the cavity of the patient, and wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises manipulating the actuation member to move the movable member from outside the cavity of the patient. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the actuation member is introduced into the cavity separately from the surgical accessory, and wherein the actuation member is detachably coupled with the movable member of the surgical accessory inside the cavity. 5. The method of claim 2 further comprising locking the movable member of the surgical accessory in the actuated position. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises connecting the surgical accessory with a portion of the body cavity of the patient in the actuated position, and locking the movable member of the surgical accessory in the actuated position comprises maintaining connection of the surgical accessory with the portion of the body cavity. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising, prior to actuating the surgical accessory, positioning the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool to a target region for effecting the predetermined treatment at the target region, and further comprising, after locking the movable member of the surgical accessory in the actuated position, decoupling the surgical accessory from the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises advancing a clip from a clip storage region to a clip applying region of the surgical accessory and applying the clip to a target region. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises punching an opening in a tissue in the body cavity of the patient. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises at least partially occluding a vessel in the body cavity of the patient. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises stabilizing a target region of the body cavity of the patient. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises generating a magnetic field to attract metallic objects inside the body cavity to the surgical accessory. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic surgical tool is manipulated by a servomechanism from outside the cavity to couple the robotic surgical tool with the surgical accessory inside the cavity. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the robotic surgical tool is connected with a robot arm which is disposed outside the cavity and robotically controlled to manipulate the robotic surgical tool. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool by grasping the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool by mating the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool to form a mated connection. 17. The method of claim 1 further comprising positioning the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool to a target region for effecting the predetermined treatment at the target region. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity through a cannula. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity supported by a surgical accessory support, and is removable from the surgical accessory support within the cavity. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a container. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the surgical accessory support includes at least a portion of an elongate shaft of a second robotic surgical tool. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the movable member of the surgical accessory is coupled with an actuation member having a proximal portion disposed outside of the cavity of the patient, and wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises manipulating the actuation member to move the movable member from outside the cavity of the patient. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising decoupling the surgical accessory from the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the surgical accessory is supported by a surgical accessory support which is introduced into the cavity before the surgical accessory is coupled with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity, and wherein the decoupled surgical accessory is returned to the surgical accessory support inside the cavity. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein a plurality of surgical accessories are introduced into the cavity, the method further comprising coupling another surgical accessory inside the cavity with the robotic surgical tool after the decoupling step. 26. The method of claim 1 wherein two clamp accessories are introduced into the cavity, and wherein actuating the clamp accessories comprises clenching the clamp accessories around portions of an aorta with the clamp accessories in contact to enclose a region of the aorta, thereby partially occluding the aorta. 27. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one non-robotic surgical accessory into the cavity, the accessory not coupled to an end effector of a robotic surgical tool when introduced; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after separately introducing the surgical-accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity; manipulating the robotic surgical tool from outside the body cavity of the patient to position the surgical accessory within the body cavity; and actuating the surgical accessory from outside the body cavity of the patient to interact with a portion of the body cavity. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the surgical accessory includes a member movable between a rest position and an actuated position, and wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises moving the movable member toward the actuated position. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the actuation member is introduced into the cavity separately from the surgical accessory, and wherein the actuation member is detachably coupled with the movable member of the surgical accessory inside the cavity. 30. The method of claim 27 wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity supported by a surgical accessory support, and is removable from the surgical accessory support within the cavity. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a container. 32. The method of claim 27 further comprising decoupling the surgical accessory from the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity. 33. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after separately introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and actuating the surgical accessory from outside the cavity of the patient to effect a predetermined treatment, wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises advancing a clip from a clip storage region to a clip applying region of the surgical accessory and applying the clip to a target region. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity through a cannula. 35. The method of claim 33 wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity supported by a surgical accessory support, and is removable from the surgical accessory support within the cavity. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein the surgical accessory support includes a container. 37. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at feast one surgical accessory into the cavity through a cannula; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after separately introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and actuating the surgical accessory from outside the cavity of the patient to effect a predetermined treatment. 38. The method of claim 37 further comprising decoupling the surgical accessory from the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity. 39. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in a body cavity of a patient, the method comprising: introducing at least one surgical accessory into the cavity; introducing a robotic surgical tool into the cavity; coupling the surgical accessory with the robotic surgical tool inside the cavity after separately introducing the surgical accessory and the robotic surgical tool into the cavity; and actuating the surgical accessory from outside the cavity of the patient to effect a predetermined treatment, wherein the at least one surgical accessory is introduced into the cavity supported by a surgical accessory support, and is removable from the surgical accessory support within the cavity. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein the surgical accessory includes a member movable between a rest position and an actuated position, and wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises moving the movable member toward the actuated position. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein the movable member of the surgical accessory is coupled with an actuation member having a proximal portion disposed outside of the cavity of the patient, and wherein actuating the surgical accessory comprises manipulating the actuation member to move the movable member from outside the cavity of the patient. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the actuation member is introduced into the cavity separately from the surgical accessory, and wherein the actuation member is detachably coupled with the movable member of the surgical accessory inside the cavity. 