A pill dispensing system includes a shelving unit in array form that holds a number of bulk containers, each holding a bulk amount of a pill to be dispensed. A computer controlled robot removes a selected bulk container and places it on a counter that also dispenses pills. The robot has an arm with a free end portion that can grip a bulk container or a single pill bottle to be filled. The robot is computer controlled to retrieve an empty pill bottle, place it on a label printing and applying unit, then place it next to the counter/dispenser to receive the selected number of selected prescription pills, then place the filled, labeled bottle on a conveyor. In an alternate embodiment, pill bottles are dispensed from a dispenser that holds bottles on inclined plates and feeds them to a vertical dispensing channel. Gates prevent the flow of bottles from an inclined position until the plate above has been emptied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for filling prescriptions, comprising: a shelving unit defining an array of storage receptacles; a plurality of containers, each removably canied in one of said receptacles; a vial storage device; a counting and dispensing unit; an off-load device; and a computer controlled robot for automatically moving vials from said vial storage device to said counting and dispensing unit and from said counting and dispensing unit to said off-load device, and for moving said containers between said receptacles and said counting and dispensing unit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a label printing and applying unit, and wherein said computer controlled robot automatically moves vials from said vial storage device, to said label printing and applying unit, and to said counting and dispensing unit. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said off-load device comprises one of a conveyor and a carousel. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said off-load device comprises a conveyor having more than one lane. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said vial storage device comprises a dispenser. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robot includes an articulated, computer controlled arm. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a free end of said robot includes first and second gripping surface portions that are movable relative to one another and that are configured to grip a selected container or a selected vial, respectively. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said shelving unit is arc shaped. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising replenishment in and replenishment out ports, and wherein said computer controlled robot automatically moves said containers between said storage receptacles and said ports. 