Processes and kits for immobilizing a high density of nucleic acids on an insoluble surface, which are particularly useful for mass spectrometric detection of nucleic acids, are disclosed. Arrays containing the immobilized nucleic acids and use of the immobilized nucleic acids in a variety of solid phase nucleic acid chemistry applications, including nucleic acid synthesis (chemical and enzymatic), hybridization and/or extension, and sequencing, are provided. Serial and parallel dispensing tools that can deliver defined volumes of fluid to generate multi-element arrays of sample material on a substrate surface are further provided. Tools provided herein can include an assembly of vesicle elements, or pins, wherein each of the pins can include a narrow interior chamber suitable for holding nanoliter volumes of fluid. Methods for dispensing tools that can be employed to generate multi-element arrays of sample material on a substrate surface are also provided. The tool can dispense a spot of fluid to a substrate surface by spraying the fluid from the pin, contacting the substrate surface or forming a drop that touches against the substrate surface. The tool can form an array of sample material by dispensing sample material in a series of steps, while moving the pin to different locations above the substrate surface to form the sample array, The prepared sample arrays may be passed to a plate assembly that disposes the sample arrays for analysis by mass spectrometry.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for synthesizing DNA on the surface of a support, comprising: reacting the surface of a silicon support or a support with a silicon surface with a solution of 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane to produce a uniform layer of primary amines on the surface of the support; derivatizing the surface of the support with iodoacetamido functionalities by reacting the uniform layer of primary amines with a solution of. N-succinimidyl (4-iodoacetyl) aminobenzoate (SIAB); contacting the surface of the support with a thiol-containing strand of DNA, whereby the thiol-containing DNA is immobilized on the surface of the support by a covalent bond between the thiol group of the thiol-containing DNA and the iodoacetamrido functionality on the surface; hybridizing a single-strand of DNA that is complementary to a portion of the immobilized thiol-containing DNA; and adding at least one nucleotide to the 3'-end of the hybridized single-strand of DNA by DNA synthesis, whereby DNA is synthesized on the surface of a support; and determining a molecular weight by mass spectrometry of the single-strand of DNA to which at least one nucleotide has been added. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the immobilized DNA is positioned on the support in the form of an array. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: adding one or more dideoxynucleoside triphosphates during DNA synthesis. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the mass spectrometry analysis is selected from the group consisting of Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/lonization, Time-of-Flight (MALDI-TOF) analysis, Electronspray Electrospray (ES), Ion Cyclotron Resonance (ICR) and Fourier transform. 5. A method, comprising: reacting thiol-containing DNA molecules with a solid support under conditions such that a covalent bond is formed, thereby immobilizing DNA molecules on the insoluble support, wherein: the resulting covalent linkages and support are stable to laser desorption, and the support is a silicon support or comprises a silicon surface or a silicon dioxide surface; hybridizing a single-strand of DNA to a portion of the immobilized thiol-containing DNA molecule complementary thereto; adding at least one deoxynucleotide or dideoxynucleotide to the 3'-end of the hybridized single strand of DNA by enzymatic DNA synthesis; and determining the molecular weight of the hybridized single-strand of DNA to which at least one deoxynucleotide or dideoxynucleotide has been added using mass spectrometry analysis, whereby the sequence of at least a portion of thiol-containing DNA molecule immobilized on the surface of a support is determined. 6. A method for sequencing DNA, comprising: reacting the surface of a silicon support or support with a silicon surface with a solution of 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane to produce a uniform layer of primary amines on the surface of the support, derivatizing the surface of the support with iodoacetamido functionalities by reacting the uniform layer of primary amines with a solution of N-succinimidyl (4-iodoacetyl) aminobenzoate (SIAB), reacting the surface of the support with a thiol-containing strand of DNA, whereby the thiol-containing DNA is immobilized on the surface of the support by a covalent bond between the thiol group of the thiol-containing DNA and the iodoacetamido functionality derivatized on the surface of the support, hybridizing a single-strand of DNA to a portion of the immobilized thiol-containing DNA complementary thereto, performing DNA synthesis in the presence of an appropriate mixture of deoxynucleotides containing one or more dideoxynucleotides, wherein at least one deoxynucleotide or dideoxynucleotide is added to the hybridized single-strand of DNA at its 3'-end by enzymatic DNA synthesis; and determining the molecular weight of the hybridized single-strand of DNA containing the enzymatically added deoxynucleotide(s) or dideoxynucleotide(s) using mass spectrometry analysis, whereby at least one base in the sequence is determined. 7. The method of claim 5 or 6, wherein the mass spectrometry analysis is selected from the group consisting of Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/lonization, Time-of-Flight (MALDI-TOF) analysis, Electrospray (ES), Ion Cyclotron Resonance (ICR) and Fourier transform. 8. The method of claim 5, or 6 wherein the immobilized DNA is positioned on the support in the form of an array. 