The invention relates to methods and devices for accelerated stability analysis, and in particular to a qualitative and quantitative direct estimation/identification of separation processes of disperse material systems (such as liquid-solid, liquid-liquid or liquid-gaseous). The invention also relates to methods and devices for the classification and quantitative characterization of slow, as well as rapid separation phenomena of disperse material systems of different volume concentration. Exemplary fields of application concern the development, selection and optimization of destabilizers, stabilizers and novel formulations for dispersions, as well as quality and process control (such as in the chemical, pharmaceutical, biotechnological, cosmetic and food industries), as well as in the process technology for separation and treatment processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Device for determining stability and separation of disperse material systems, comprising: a measurement cell for receiving a product to be measured; a wave-emitting source; and a wave-receiving sensor, said source and sensor being arranged relative to a position of the measurement cell so an intensity distribution of waves exiting from a sample to be measured is detected spatially and temporally over an entire height of the measurement cell, the device providing for a modification of a mutual position of the measurement cell and the source and sensor relative to vertical gravitation. 2. Device according to claim 1, comprising: a tubular measurement cell of variable cross-section; a controller for controlling detection of local and temporal changes in a composition of the product to be measured; the wave-emitting source and wave-receiving sensor being arranged stationary relative to a position of the measurement cell; and electromagnetic and acoustical sources and sensors. 3. Device according to claim 1, comprising: means for expanding an output point of radiation to the height of the measurement cell, and for collimating and aligning said radiation perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the measurement cell; and wherein said source and sensor are a line-shaped source and sensor. 4. Device according to claim 1, comprising: bladed diaphragms disposed stationary and perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the measurement cell and in parallel to a cross-section of the measurement cell. 5. Device according to claim 1, comprising: plural measurement cells of various materials having circular, prismatic or rectangular cross-sections which vary along the longitudinal axis of the measurement cell. 6. Device according to claim 1 comprising: plural measurement cells which can be analyzed independently of each other. 7. Device according to claim 1, comprising: multiple channels controlled by software, and having plural identical measurement modules. 8. Device according to claim 1, comprising: at least one of a mirror, plane-parallel transparent plate, an illumination unit and/or a detector unit for analyzing diverse measurement cells. 9. Device according to claim 1, comprising: means for feeding an individual measurement cell support with measurement cells asynchronously either manually or by a robot. 10. Device according to claim 1, comprising: means, controlled by a software, for in situ cleaning the measurement cells and for repeatedly filling the measurement cells; and analyzing sample material in each case. 11. Device according to claim 1, comprising: means by which the measurement cells are connected to a circulation; and software for cleaning and refill are cleaned and repeatedly filled, and the sample material is in each case analyzed. 12. Device according to claim 1, comprising: means for inclining a measurement module including the measurement cell, the source and the sensor relative to a vertical axis, manually by at least one of a crank and a stepper motor. 13. Device according to claim 12, comprising: sensors for measuring a deviation from the vertical axis, measured values of which are polled by software and stored in a database, and fixed separate from the measurement module. 14. Device according to claim 1, comprising: heating and/or cooling elements; and temperature sensors for a directed temperature stabilization or for a modification of the temperature of sample material. 15. Device according to claim 1, comprising: redispersion tools integrated for a homogenization before a measurement is started. 16. Device according to claim 1 configured as a mobile measurement device. 17. Method for analyzing disperse material systems in a measurement cell using a wave-emitting source and wave-receiving sensor comprising the steps of: spatially analyzing local changes in composition, due to separation phenomena, of a dispersion present in a measurement cell over an entire height of the measurement cell, using a wave-emitting source and a wave-receiving sensor which are stationary relative to the measurement cell; and modifying a micro-flow of the dispersion by modification of a position of the measurement cell and sources and sensors relative to a vertical gravitation without a mutual change of position of the measurement cell, wave-emitting source and wave-receiving sensor. 18. Method according to claim 17, comprising: configuring electromagnetic or mechanical waves parallel and aligned perpendicular relative to a longitudinal axis of the measurement cell. 19. Method according to claim 17, comprising: using differing wavelengths during one measurement procedure. 20. Method according to claim 17, comprising: emitting waves from the source in a pulsed manner. 21. Method according to claims 17, comprising: measuring actual radiation intensity distribution along the measurement cell at plural azimuthal angles and, simultaneously or delayed, at determined time intervals. 22. Method according to claim 17, comprising: tilting a measurement module which contains measurement cell relative to a vertical alignment thereof; and accelerating the measurement cell at different degrees. 23. Method according to claim 17, comprising: introducing additional variable sensors into the measurement cell for determining substance parameters of the dispersion during separation. 24. Method according to claim 17, comprising: standardization or for assessment of temperature-dependence of stabilizing or destabilizing phenomena, temperature preset during measurement. 25. Method according to claim 17, comprising: performing stability analyses with individual test certificates simultaneously for plural dispersion samples. 26. Method according to claim 17, comprising: feeding of individual measurement cell support with measurement cells at least one of manually, automatically, synchronously and asynchronously. 27. Method according to claim 17, comprising: feeding the measurement cell continuously with a product to be measured for in-line measurements. 28. Method according to claim 17, comprising: automatically storing technically relevant measurement parameters including at least one of sample names, measurement time intervals, irradiation intensity, tilting angle, type of measurement cells, operator identification recorded measured intensity data and process temperature in a base; and providing the stored parameters for on-line analyses. 29. Method according to claim 17, comprising: integrating intensity profiles for a sample area put in prior to a measurement process, and from an increase per time unit in relation to a maximum modification, calculating at least one of a stability and separation parameter. 30. Method according to claim 17, comprising: comparing at least one of an on-line calculated stability or separation parameter with at least one of a predefined reference sample and a reference sample measured in the same measurement process; and activating or placing at the disposal of the process control, on-line alarm functions upon deviations. 31. Method according to claim 17, comprising: comparing the actual stability and separation parameters with parameters of a device specification, and automatically optimizing the parameters with respect to measurement time, measurement accuracy, light intensity, tilting angle and storage space required. 32. Method according to claim 17, comprising: using the device as a mobile measurement device. 33. Method according to claim 17, comprising: providing a qualitative and quantitative direct estimation/identification of separation processes of disperse material systems. 34. Method according to claim 33, comprising: determining the stability and separation in at least one of a field of development, selection and optimization of destabilizers, stabilizers and novel formulations for dispersions, and in quality and process control. 35. Method according to claim 33 comprising: using the method in process technology for separation and treatment processes. 36. Method according to claim 33 comprising: using the method in at least one of chemical, pharmaceutical, biotechnological, cosmetic and food industries. 37. Device according to claim 1, wherein the sample is detected over the entire height of the measurement cell by instantaneous shots. 38. Method according to claim 17, comprising: accelerating the separation phenomena to shorten a stability analysis of the disperse material. 