An apparatus for manipulating an object to a desired state. The object is received by a grid of retractable pins. A control component determines, through employment of a manipulation algorithm, one or more retractable pins to actuate to place the object in the desired state. The pins are then actuated by an actuation component that is coupled to both the grid of retractable pins and the control component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manipulating an object to a desired state, comprising the steps of: receiving the object in a grid of retractable pins such that the object rests in an initial equilibrium state; determining, through employment of a manipulation algorithm, one or more retractable pins to actuate to place the object in the desired state; and actuating the one or more retractable pins. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step comprises the steps of: determining, through employment of the manipulation algorithm, one or more intermediate equilibrium states in which the object must be placed before the object reaches the desired state, and utilizing the manipulation algorithm to determine one or more retractable pins to actuate to place the object in the one or more intermediate equilibrium states. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: actuating the one or more pins to place the object in the one or more intermediate equilibrium states. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step comprises the steps of: determining all possible equilibrium states for the object, constructing a capture region for each of the all possible equilibrium states, constructing a directed graph having nodes that represent the all possible equilibrium states and arcs that link one or more pairs of nodes such that a first equilibrium state lies in a capture region of a second equilibrium state, and employing the directed graph to determine a path between the first equilibrium state and the desired state. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of constructing a capture region comprises: calculating a maximal subset of configuration space of the object in a possible equilibrium state such that any motion starting within the maximal subset ends in the possible equilibrium state. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired state comprises an equilibrium state having a desired position for the object and a desired orientation for the object. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting at least one of a position and an orientation of the object. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the determining step comprises: employing the at least one of the position and the orientation to determine the one or more pins to actuate to place the object in the desired state. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of actuating comprises the steps of: outputting one or more coordinated signals to one or more solenoid valves that correspond to the one or more retractable pins, receiving the one or more coordinated signals at the one or more solenoid valves, activating and deactivating the one or more solenoid valves in response to receipt of the one or more coordinated signals, projecting, in response to activation and deactivation of the one or more solenoid valves, the one or more retractable pins out of a surface of a plate to which the one or more retractable pins are mounted, and retracting the one or more retractable pins to a position below the surface of the plate. 10. An apparatus for manipulating an object to a desired state, comprising: a grid of retractable pins to receive the object; a control component that determines, through employment of a manipulation algorithm, one or more retractable pins to actuate to place the object in the desired state; and an actuation component, coupled to both the grid of retractable pins and the control component, to actuate the one or more pins. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising one or more sensors, coupled to the grid, that detect at least one of a position and an orientation of the object. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the control component employs the at least one of the position and the orientation of the object to determine the one or more retractable pins to actuate to place the object in the desired state. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the control component includes means for determining one or more intermediate equilibrium states in which the object must be placed before the object reaches the desired state, and means for determining one or more retractable pins to actuate to place the object in the one or more intermediate equilibrium states. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the control component includes means for determining all possible equilibrium states for the object, means for constructing a capture region for each of the possible equilibrium states, means for constructing a directed graph that has nodes that represent the all possible equilibrium states and has arcs that link one or more pairs of nodes such that a first equilibrium state lies in a capture region of a second equilibrium state, and means for employing the directed graph to determine a path between the first equilibrium state and the desired state. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the control component constructs a capture region through calculation of a maximal subset of configuration space for the object in a possible equilibrium state such that any motion starting within the maximal subset ends in the possible equilibrium state. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the desired state comprises an equilibrium state having a desired position for the object and a desired orientation for the object. 17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the grid of retractable pins comprises: a plate, and one or more pneumatic cylinders mounted to the plate, in which the one or more retractable pins are each mounted to a corresponding one of the one or more pneumatic cylinders such that the one or more retractable pins are each receivable within an opening of the one or more pneumatic cylinders. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the actuation component activates the one or more retractable pins to project out of a surface of the plate, and retracts the one or more retractable pins below the surface of the plate. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: one or more solenoid valves each coupled to a corresponding one of the one or more pneumatic cylinders and coupled to an air supply, wherein the actuation component actuates the one or more retractable pins through the output of one or more coordinated signals that activate and deactivate the one or more solenoid valves. 