The invention provides methods and devices for detecting the presence of one or more target analytes in a sample employing a channel having affixed therein one or more binding partners for each target analyte. Assays are carried out by transporting the sample through the channel to each successive binding partner so that target analyte present in said sample binds to the corresponding binding partner. The sample is then transported beyond the binding partner(s), followed by detection of any target analyte bound to each binding partner. In one embodiment, binding efficiency is increased by the use of segmented transport, wherein a first bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample precedes the sample during transport and a second bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample follows the sample. Many configurations are possible for the device of the invention. A preferred device includes: a substrate with a channel formed in its surface, and a cover element that overlies and seals the channel. Binding partner(s) are affixed to the surface of the cover element facing the channel lumen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting the presence of a first target analyte in a sample, said method comprising: (a) providing a channel formed in a surface of a substrate, and a cover element overlying and sealing said channel, said cover element having a first surface facing the channel lumen, wherein a first binding partner for said first target analyte is affixed to said first surface of said cover element; (b) transporting said sample through said channel to said first binding partner so that first target analyte present in said sample binds to said first binding partner, wherein a first bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with said sample precedes said sample during transport and a second bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with said sample follows said sample during transport; (c) transporting said sample beyond said first binding partner; and (d) detecting the presence of any first target analyte bound to said first binding partner, wherein said cover element is unsealed from said channel to allow said detection. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel is molded in a polymeric material. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said polymeric material is a polydimethylsiloxane. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel has a hydrophobic lumenal surface. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel has a cross-sectional diameter of about 100 .mu.m or less. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said cover element is removably attached to said substrate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said first surface of said cover element is hydrophilic. 8. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising detecting the presence of a second target analyte in a sample, wherein said channel has affixed therein, and/or said cover element has affixed thereon, a second binding partner for said second target analyte, wherein said second binding partner is affixed at a location distinct from that of said first binding partner; said sample is additionally transported through said channel to said second binding partner under conditions wherein second target analyte present in said sample binds to said second binding partner, and wherein said first bolus or bubble precedes said sample during transport to said second binding partner and said second bolus or bubble follows said sample during transport to said second binding partner; said sample is transported beyond said first and second binding partners; and the presence of any second target analyte bound to said second binding partner is detected. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said channel and/or cover element comprises at least about 100 different binding partners affixed at distinct locations. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said immiscible fluids are gas bubbles. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein a film of fluid containing said first target analyte forms between a gas bubble and a lumenal surface of said channel, said film being about 1 .mu.m thick or less. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein said immiscible fluids are gas bubbles and a film of fluid containing said first target analyte forms between a gas bubble and said first surface of said cover element, said film being about 1 .mu.m thick or less. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample is divided into at least two segments, said segments being separated by a bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with said sample. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein a buffer solution follows said second bolus or bubble of immiscible fluid. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said buffer solution is divided into at least two segments, said segments being separated by a bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with said buffer solution. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample is transported through said channel at a velocity of at least about 1 mm/second. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein fluid is transported in response to a pressure difference. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said fluid is transported by electrophoretic force. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said first target analyte is labeled with a label that produces a signal having an intensity. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said first target analyte is labeled with a light-absorbing label. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein: target analytes derived from at least two different sources are present in said sample or are transported through said channel in a plurality of separate samples, wherein target analytes from each source are labeled with a different label; said channel and/or cover element comprises a plurality of different binding partners affixed at distinct locations; said detecting comprises detecting the signals from labeled target analytes bound to each different binding partner; and said method additionally comprises comparing the intensities of any signal produced by each different label at each different binding partner location. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein said binding partner comprises an antibody. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein said binding partner comprises a binding protein. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein said binding partner comprises a nucleic acid. 