The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber and having a gas inlet for receiving process gases into the processing chamber and a gas outlet for discharging the process gases; a heating assembly disposed within the processing chamber having a pedestal for supporting a semiconductor wafer thereon and a heating element for heating the wafer, the pedestal having an outer surface exposed to the processing chamber, the heating assembly including a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal, the support shaft having an outer wall surrounding a hollow interior, the outer wall comprising aluminum nitride and being substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C.; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least the exposed outer surface of the pedestal is substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a gas inlet for receiving cleaning gases comprising one or more fluorine sources, wherein the exposed outer surface of the pedestal is substantially resistant to etching by fluorine at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the entire outer surface of the pedestal comprising ceramic material. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the entire outer surface of the pedestal comprises aluminum nitride. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the process gases include a silicon source and an oxygen source. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the hollow interior of the support shaft is vacuum sealed from the processing chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the outer wall of the support shaft is diffusion-bonded to the lower surface of the pedestal. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 herein the hollow interior of the support shaft is maintained at a pressure of about 0.8-1.2 atm and a temperature of about 10-200.degree. C., and the processing chamber is maintained at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. and pressures of about 20 mtorr to 600 torr. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the outer surface of the pedestal comprises aluminum nitride, and wherein heating element comprises a heater coil embedded within the pedestal, the heater coil resistively heating the wafer to temperatures of at least about 500.degree. C. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a coolant channel extending through at least a portion of the support shaft, the coolant channel having an outlet and an inlet for receiving fluid to cool the outer wall and the hollow interior of the support shaft. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a drive assembly for moving the pedestal and the wafer between a processing position within the process chamber and an unloading/loading position. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the lift tube has portions exposed to the processing chamber, said portions comprising aluminum oxide, wherein the lift fingers comprise aluminum oxide. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least the exposed outer surface of the pedestal comprising a material that is substantially resistant to the process gases at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein at least the exposed outer surface of the pedestal comprises a material that is substantially resistant to the process gases at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C. without reacting with the process gases. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said material is substantially resistant to etching by cleaning gases or deposition gases at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the cleaning gases include N.sub.2, NF.sub.3, argon, NF.sub.3, O.sub.2, atomic oxygen, F.sub.2, CF.sub.4, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, C.sub.3 F.sub.8, SF.sub.6 or Cl.sub.2. 18. The apparatus if claim 16 wherein the deposition gases include triethylborate (TEB), trimethylborate (TMB), diborane (B.sub.2 H.sub.6), triethylphosphate (TEPO), triethylphosphite (TEP.sub.i), trimethylphosphate (TMOP), trimethylphosphite (TMPi), an arsenic gas, silane (SiH.sub.4), tetraethylorthosilane (TEOS), O.sub.2, O.sub.3, or atomic oxygen (O). 19. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber and having a gas inlet for receiving process gases into the processing chamber and a gas outlet for discharging the process gases; a heating assembly disposed within the processing chamber having a pedestal for supporting a semiconductor wafer thereon and a heating element for heating the wafer, the pedestal having an outer surface exposed to the processing chamber, the heating assembly including a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal, the support shaft having an outer wall surrounding a hollow interior, the outer wall comprising aluminum nitride and being substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C.; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal. 20. A heating assembly for heating a semiconductor wafer within a deposition apparatus comprising: a pedestal having a substantially planar upper surface for supporting a semiconductor wafer thereon; a support shall coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal and having an outer wall surrounding a vacuum sealed, hollow interior; a heating element disposed within the pedestal for heating the wafer, the heating element including a heating coil and one or more electrical connectors extending through the hollow interior of the support shaft; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal; wherein the outer wall of the support shall comprises aluminum nitride and is capable of maintaining a temperature of about 10-200.degree. C. and a pressure of about 0.8-1.2 atm within the hollow interior, and at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. and pressures of at least about 20 mtorr to about 600 torr within the deposition apparatus surrounding the support shaft. 21. The heating assembly of claim 20 wherein the outer wall of the support shaft which comprises aluminum nitride is substantially resistant to reactive chemistries of process gases comprising silicon and oxygen and to deposition by the process gases at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C. without reacting with the process gases. 22. The heating assembly of claim 20 wherein the outer wall of the support shaft and the pedestal comprise aluminum nitride, the support shaft being diffusion-bonded to the pedestal. 23. The heating assembly of claim 20 wherein the outer wall of the support shaft which comprises aluminum nitride is substantially resistant to deposition reactions with process gases comprising silicon and oxygen at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C. 24. The heating assembly of claim 23 wherein the process gases include triethylborate (TEB), trimethylborate (TMB), diborane (B.sub.2 H.sub.6), triethylphosphate (TEPO), triethylphosphite (TEPi), trimethylphosphate (TMOP), trimethylphosphite (TMPi), an arsenic gas, silane (SiH.sub.4), tetraethylorthosilane (TEOS), O.sub.2, O.sub.3, or atomic oxygen (O). 25. The heating assembly of claim 20 wherein the outer wall of the support shaft which comprises aluminum nitride is substantially resistant to etching reactions with cleaning gases at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 26. The heating assembly of claim 25 wherein the cleaning gases include N.sub.2, NF.sub.3, argon, NF.sub.3, O.sub.2, atomic oxygen, F.sub.2, CF.sub.4, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, C.sub.3 F.sub.8, SF.sub.6 or Cl.sub.2. 27. A heating assembly for heating a semiconductor wafer within a deposition apparatus comprising: a pedestal for supporting a semiconductor wafer thereon; a heating element disposed within the pedestal for heating the wafer; a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal, the support shaft having an outer wall surrounding a hollow interior, the outer wall comprising aluminum nitride and being substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C.; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal. 28. The heating assembly of claim 27 wherein the pedestal has an outer surface comprising a material that is substantially resistant to process gases at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 29. The heating assembly of claim 27 wherein the pedestal has an outer surface comprising a material that is substantially resistant to deposition by deposition gases or etching by cleaning gases at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. 30. A heating assembly for heating a semiconductor wafer within a deposition apparatus comprising: a pedestal for supporting a semiconductor wafer thereon; a heating element disposed within the pedestal for heating the wafer; a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal, the outer wall of the support shall and the pedestal comprising aluminum nitride and being substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C., the support shaft being diffusion-bonded to the pedestal; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal. 31. An apparatus for fabricating an integrated circuit device comprising: an enclosure housing a processing chamber and having a gas inlet to receive process gases into the processing chamber and a gas outlet to discharge the process gases; a heating assembly disposed within the processing chamber having a pedestal to support a semiconductor wafer thereon and a heating element to heat the wafer, the pedestal having in outer surface exposed to the processing chamber, the heating assembly including a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal, the support shaft having an outer wall surrounding a hollow interior, the outer wall comprising aluminum nitride and being substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C.; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal. 32. A heating assembly for heating a semiconductor wafer within a deposition apparatus comprising: a pedestal having a substantially planar upper surface to support a semiconductor wafer thereon; a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal and having an outer wall surrounding a vacuum sealed, hollow interior; a heating element disposed within the pedestal to heat the wafer, the heating element including a heating coil and one or more electrical connectors extending through the hollow interior of the support shaft; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal; wherein the outer wall of the support shaft comprises aluminum nitride and is capable of maintaining a temperature of about 10-200.degree. C. and a pressure of about 0.8-1.2 atm within the hollow interior, and at temperatures of at least about 400.degree. C. and pressures of at least about 20 mtorr to about 600 torr within the deposition apparatus surrounding the support shaft. 33. A heating assembly for heating a semiconductor wafer within a deposition apparatus comprising: a pedestal to support a semiconductor wafer thereon; a heating element disposed within the pedestal to heat the wafer; and a support shaft coupled to a lower surface of the pedestal, the support shaft having an outer wall surrounding a hollow interior, the outer wall comprising aluminum nitride and being substantially resistant to reactions with the process gases and to deposition by the process gases on the pedestal at temperatures of at least about 600.degree. C.; and a lift assembly including a lift tube disposed beneath the pedestal; and one or more lift fingers extending through holes in the pedestal for moving the wafer between an unloading/loading position suspended above the pedestal, and a processing position on or near the upper surface of the pedestal. 