An anode is configured to be used within a metal film plating apparatus. The anode has a substantially planar electric field generating portion and an electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion. The planar electric field generating portion is coated with an inert material that is impervious to the electrolyte solution. In one embodiment, the anode is formed as a perforated anode. In one aspect, the electric field generating portion is formed contiguous with the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion. In another aspects, the planar electric field generating portion is formed as a distinct member from the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An anode assembly for a plating apparatus, comprising: an anode having an electric field generating portion and an electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion, the electric field generating portion comprising an inert material. 2. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the electric field generating portion acts to generate a substantially uniform electric field across a substrate being plated. 3. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the inert material includes one or more metals from the group of tantalum, titanium, and tungsten. 4. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the substantially electric field generating portion of the anode includes a planar surface coated with the inert material, the planar surface is oriented substantially parallel to a seed layer on a substrate, the seed layer and the anode being both immersed in an electrolyte solution. 5. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion chemically reacts with an electrolyte solution to generate metal ions in the electrolyte solution. 6. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the electric field generating portion and the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion are formed on distinct elements. 7. The anode assembly of claim 1, further comprising a filter positioned proximate the anode, wherein the filter is a membrane filter. 8. The anode assembly of claim 7, wherein the filter limits particle generation by the anode into the electrolyte solution. 9. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the anode includes perforations that extend through the anode assembly. 10. The anode assembly of claim 9, wherein the perforations include surfaces for reacting with electrolyte solution flowing through the perforations. 11. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the electric field generating portion and the electrolyte Solution chemical reaction portion are formed on a contiguous element. 12. The anode assembly of claim 1, wherein the electric field generating portion is structurally distinct from the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion. 13. An electrochemical plating system configured to receive a substrate and deposit a metal film on a seed layer on the substrate, the electro-chemical plating system comprising: an anode having a substantially planar electric field generating portion and an electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion, the electric field generating portion comprising an inert material; and an electrolyte cell. 14. The electrochemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the electric field generating portion is substantially planar and is oriented to be substantially parallel to the seed layer on the substrate. 15. The electrochemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the inert material is an inert metal. 16. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 15, wherein the inert metal includes one or more metals from the group of tantalum, titanium, and tungsten. 17. The electrochemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the substantially planar electric field generating portion of the anode includes a planar surface coated with the inert material, the planar surface is oriented substantially parallel to a seed layer on a substrate, the seed layer and the anode being both immersed in an electrolyte solution. 18. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion chemically reacts with an electrolyte solution to generate metal ions in the electrolyte solution. 19. The electrochemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the planar electric field generating portion and the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion are formed on distinct elements. 20. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 13, further comprising a filter positioned proximate the anode, wherein the filter is a membrane filter. 21. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 20, wherein the filter limits particle generation by the anode into the electrolyte solution. 22. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the anode includes perforations that extend through the anode. 23. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 22, wherein the perforations include surfaces for reacting with electrolyte solution flowing through the perforations. 24. The electrochemical plating system of claim 22, wherein the planar electric field generating portion and the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion are formed on a contiguous element. 25. The electro-chemical plating system of claim 13, wherein the planar electric field generating portion is structurally distinct from the electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion. 26. A method to deposit a metal film on a seed layer on a substrate using an anode, the method comprising: immersing a coated anode in an electrolyte solution, the coated anode comprising a substantially planar electric field generating portion and an electrolyte solution chemical reaction portion, the planar electric field generating portion comprising an inert material; immersing the seed layer in the electrolyte solution; and applying a voltage between the anode and the seed layer. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the seed layer is immersed in the electrolyte solution to a position so the seed layer is substantially parallel to the substantially planar electric field generating portion. 