A processor for processing articles, such as semiconductor wafers, in a substantially clean atmosphere is set forth. The processor includes an enclosure defining a substantially enclosed clean processing chamber and at least one processing station disposed in the processing chamber. An interface section is disposed adjacent an interface end of the enclosure. The interface section includes at least one interface port through which a pod containing articles for processing are loaded or unloaded to or from the processor. The interface section is hygienically separated from the processing chamber since the interface section is generally not as clean as the highly hygienic processing chamber. An article extraction mechanism adapted to seal with the pod is employed. The mechanism is disposed to allow extraction of the articles contained within the pod into the processing chamber without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section. The article processor also preferably includes an article insertion mechanism that is adapted to seal with a pod disposed in the interface section. The article insertion mechanism is disposed to allow insertion of the articles into the pod after processing by the at least one processing station. The article insertion mechanism allows the insertion of the articles without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processor for processing articles comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed workspace therewithin; an interface section located adjacent an interface end of the enclosure, the interface section including at least one interface port through which sealed article containers containing articles are loaded or unloaded to or from the processor; an article inventory subassembly disposed within the interface section for holding a plurality of sealed article containers; a container docking subassembly for receiving sealed article containers from the article inventory subassembly and for opening and closing the containers without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions within the interface section; an article transfer subassembly for extracting the articles from the article containers; at least one processing station having an access opening which opens to the work space to allow installation and removal of articles relative to the at least one processing station; at least one conveyor for conveying the articles to and from the at least one processing station and the article transfer subassembly. 2. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein the processor includes an input/output subassembly within the interface section and adjacent to the at least one interface port. 3. A semiconductor processor according to claim 2 wherein the input/output subassembly includes an elevator for receiving a sealed article container. 4. A semiconductor processor according to claim 3 wherein the elevator comprises a vertical guide track and an elevator lift plate slideably engaged on the guide track. 5. A semiconductor processor according to claim 2 wherein the input/output subassembly includes a loading plate for receiving a sealed article container. 6. A semiconductor processor according to claim 3 wherein the input/output subassembly includes a loading plate for receiving a sealed article container, and the loading plate and the elevator lift plate are provided with cooperating features that permit the loading plate to translate through the elevator lift plate. 7. A semiconductor processor according to claim 5 wherein the loading plate is rotatable about a vertical axis. 8. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein the article inventory subassembly includes a plurality of container shelves adapted for receiving the sealed wafer containers. 9. A semiconductor processor according to claim 8 wherein the container shelves are mounted on arms that radially extend from a central horizontal hub. 10. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein the article inventory subassembly comprises: a plurality of arms radially extending from a central horizontal hub; a container carrier mounted on each arm opposite the central horizontal hub; at least one container shelf disposed on each container carrier and adapted to receive a sealed wafer container. 11. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein the container docking subassembly includes a robotic conveyor for receiving the sealed article containers from the article inventory subassembly. 12. The semiconductor processor according to claim 1 including a robotic arm having: a first segment mounted on a carriage; a second segment connected to a first segment for pivotal motion at an elbow joint; and a third segment connected to the second segment and adapted to engage a sealed wafer container. 13. A semiconductor processor according to claim 11 wherein the container docking subassembly includes a hatch interface which forms a vacuum lock when the sealed article container is in an engaged position therewith. 14. A semiconductor processor according to claim 13 wherein the container docking subassembly includes a container transfer which operatively transfers the sealed article container between the robotic conveyor and the hatch interface. 15. A semiconductor processor according to claim 14 wherein the container transfer includes a container docking plate adapted to engage the sealed article container. 16. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein the article transfer subassembly includes engagement arms having engagement arm article supports thereon which directly engage and simultaneously move a plurality of semiconductor articles from and to the article container. 17. A semiconductor processor according to claim 2 wherein the engagement arms are mounted to a carriage for rotation about a horizontal axis. 18. A semiconductor processor according to claim 16 wherein the article transfer subassembly includes an article support having a plurality of slots which directly receive the plurality of semiconductor articles from the engagement arms. 