An electrostatic chuck has an electrode capable of being electrically charged to electrostatically hold a substrate. A composite layer covers the electrode. The composite layer comprises (1) a first dielectric material covering a central portion of the electrode, and (2) a second dielectric material covering a peripheral portion of the electrode, the second dielectric material having a different composition than the composition of the first dielectric material. The chuck is useful in a plasma process chamber to process substrates, such as semiconductor wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrostatic chuck comprising: (a) an electrode capable of being electrically charged to electrostatically hold a substrate; and (b) a composite layer covering the electrode, the composite layer comprising: (1) a first dielectric material covering a central portion of the electrode; and (2) a second dielectric material covering a peripheral portion of the electrode, the second dielectric material having a different composition than the composition of the first dielectric material, wherein the composite layer comprises a surface configured to support the substrate, the surface extending across (i) the first dielectric material and (ii) at least a portion of the second dielectric material. 2. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the first dielectric material comprises a resistivity of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA.cm to about 8.times.10.sup.10 .OMEGA.cm, and the second dielectric material comprises a resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.11 to about 1.times.10.sup.20 .OMEGA.cm. 3. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the first dielectric material is shaped as a disc and the second dielectric material is shaped as a rim about the disc. 4. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the first dielectric material comprises aluminum oxide and at least about 8 wt % titanium oxide. 5. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the chuck further comprises: (i) at least one heat transfer fluid conduit extending through the electrode to allow passage of heat transfer fluid to the surface of the composite layer; and (ii) a plasma-deactivating material in an outlet of the conduit, the plasma-deactivating material capable of reducing plasma formation in the conduit in plasma environments. 6. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the thickness of the composite layer is from about 100 .mu.m to about 300 .mu.m. 7. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the surface is substantially planar. 8. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the composite layer comprises a unitary body. 9. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the first and second dielectric materials comprise thermally sprayed coatings. 10. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the surface extends continuously below the substrate. 11. An electrostatic chuck comprising: (a) an electrode capable of being electrically charged to generate an electrostatic charge to hold a substrate; and (b) a composite layer covering the electrode, the composite layer comprising: (1) a first dielectric material covering a central portion of the electrode, the first dielectric materal having a resistivity of from about 5.times.10.sup.9 .OMEGA. cm to about 8.times.10.sup.20 .OMEGA. cm; and (2) a second dielectric material covering a peripheral portion of the electrode, the second dielectric material having a resistivity of from about 1.times.10.sup.11 to about 1.times.10.sup.20 .OMEGA. cm; and wherein the composite layer comprises a surface configured to support the substrate, the surface extending across (i) the first dielectric material and (ii) at least a portion of the second dielectric material. 12. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 11 wherein the first dielectric material comprises aluminum oxide and at least about 8 wt % titanium oxide. 13. A substrate processing chamber comprising an electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 and further comprising: (1) a gas distributor for introducing a gas into the chamber; (2) a plasma generator that couples RF energy into the gas in the chamber; and (3) a throttled exhaust to exhaust gas from the chamber. 14. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 11 wherein the thickness of the composite layer is from about 100 .mu.m to about 300 .mu.m. 15. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 11 wherein the surface is substantially planar. 16. An electrostatic chuck comprising: (a) an electrode capable of being electrically charged to electrostatically hold a substrate; and (b) a composite layer covering the electrode, the composite layer comprising: (i) a first dielectric layer covering at least a portion of the electrode, the first dielectric layer having a first resistivity in a range .DELTA..rho. defined by: (1) a first lower resistivity .rho..sub.L that is sufficiently low (i) to allow a leakage current to flow from the electrode when an electrical charge is applied to the electrode to form accumulated electrostatic charge in the first dielectric layer, and (ii) to allow the accumulated electrostatic charge to dissipate in less than about 1 second, when the electrical charge applied to the electrode is terminated; and (2) a second higher resistivity .rho..sub.H that is sufficiently high to maintain the accumulated electrostatic charge in the first dielectric layer during operation of the chuck; and (ii) a second dielectric layer covering a peripheral portion of the electrode, the second dielectric layer having a second resistivity that is greater than the first resistivity, wherein the composite layer comprises a surface configured to support the substrate, the surface extending across (i) the first dielectric layer and (ii) at least a portion of the second dielectric layer. 17. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 16 further comprising: (i) at least one heat transfer fluid conduit extending through the electrode to allow passage of heat transfer fluid to the surface of the composite layer; and (ii) a plasma-deactivating material in an outlet of the conduit, the plasma-deactivating material capable of reducing plasma formation in the conduit in plasma environments. 18. A substrate processing chamver comprising an electrostatic chuck according to claim 16 and further comprising: (1) a gas distributor for introducing a gas into the chamber; (2) a plasma generator the couples RF energy into the gas in the chamber; and (3) a throttled exhaust to exhaust gas from the chamber. 19. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 16, wherein the thickness of the composite layer is from about 100 .mu.m to about 300 .mu.m. 20. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 16 wherein in the surface is substantially planar. 