A data processing device comprising a storage circuit accessible by assertion of addresses, an arithmetic logic unit connected to the storage circuit operative to perform an arithmetic operation on data received by the arithmetic unit. Further included is an address register for storing an initial address word indicative of a storage circuit address. An instruction decode and control unit, connected to the storage circuit and having an instruction register operative to hold a program instruction is operative to decode the program instruction into control signals to control the operations of the data processing device and location codes to control data transfers according to predetermined sections of the program instruction wherein at least one of the sections includes a location section selecting the address register and a displacement section containing address data. Further included is an address generating unit connected to the storage circuit, the instruction register, and the address register responsive to the control signals from the instruction decode and control unit combining the initial address word from the address register and the address data from the displacement section to generate a storage circuit address. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processor integrated circuit comprising: A. external address bus terminals adapted to be connected to an external memory and carry address signals from the integrated circuit; B. external data bus terminals adapted to be connected to the external memory and carry operational data signals and program data signals at least to the integrated circuit; C. a control circuits coupled to the address bus terminals and data bus terminals and producing control signals in response to program data received from the data bus terminals; D. arithmetic and logic unit circuits coupled to the control signals from the control circuits and the data bus terminals for operating on operational data from the data terminals; and E. external multiprocessor interface terminals coupled to at least the control circuits and adapted to be connected directly to another processor and carry interface signals between the processor integrated circuit and the other processor for communicating with the other processor, the external multiprocessor interface terminals include control signal terminals, the control signal terminals include a strobe signal terminal, a ready signal terminal, a request signal terminal that carries a bi-directional signal and an acknowledge signal terminal that carries a bi-directional signal, the bi-directional control signals requesting and acknowledging control by the processor integrated circuit for the transfer of data to and form the integrated circuit. 