A system and method for allocating tape drives for multi-cartridge files achieves most of the benefits of allocating two tape drives without the cost of a mostly idle tape drive. The system and method includes allocating a first tape drive to process a first tape cartridge and then allocating a second tape drive to process a second tape cartridge while the first tape cartridge is rewinding after being processed. The second tape cartridge is then mounted into the second tape drive while the first tape cartridge is being rewound. The first tape cartridge is then dismounted from the first tape drive and the second tape drive begins processing the second tape cartridge. The operation is then continued by using other tape drives, which may include the first and second tape drives, to process the tape cartridges. The processing includes writing respective parts of a file to the tape cartridges to store a complete multi-cartridge file. The processing also includes reading respective parts of file stored on the tape cartridges to read a complete multi-cartridge file.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for a tape storage library having at least two tape drives and a robot assembly for mounting and dismounting tape cartridges in the tape drives, the method comprising: mounting a first tape cartridge in a first tape drive using the robot assembly; processing the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive; generating a first allocation signal after the first tape cartridge has been processed; providing the first allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a second tape cartridge in a second tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the first allocation signal by the robot assembly; processing the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive; rewinding the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive after the first tape cartridge has been processed; dismounting the first tape cartridge from the first tape drive using the robot assembly while processing the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive; and deallocating the first tape drive in response to the first allocation signal. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: generating a second allocation signal after the second tape cartridge has been processed; providing the second allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a third tape cartridge in the first tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the second allocation signal by the robot assembly; and processing the third tape cartridge with the first tape drive. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: rewinding the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive after the second tape cartridge has been processed; and dismounting the second tape cartridge from the second tape drive using the robot assembly while processing the third tape cartridge with the first tape drive. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: generating a second allocation signal after the second tape cartridge has been processed; providing the second allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a third tape cartridge in a third tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the second allocation signal by the robot assembly; and processing the third tape cartridge with the third tape drive. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: rewinding the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive after the second tape cartridge has been processed; and dismounting the second tape cartridge from the second tape drive using the robot assembly while processing the third tape cartridge with the third tape drive. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein: processing the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive includes writing information of a first part of a file to the first tape cartridge; and processing the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive includes writing information of a second part of the file to the second tape cartridge. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein: processing the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive includes reading information of a first part of a file from the first tape cartridge; and processing the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive includes reading information of a second part of the file from the second tape cartridge. 8. A method for a tape storage library having at least two tape drives and a robot assembly for mounting and dismounting tape cartridges in the tape drives, wherein the tape cartridges each store a part of a file, the method comprising: mounting a first tape cartridge in a first tape drive using the robot assembly; reading a first part of the file stored on the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive; generating an allocation signal after the first part of the file stored on the first tape cartridge has been read; providing the allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a second tape cartridge in a second tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the allocation signal by the robot assembly; reading a second part of the file stored on the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive; rewinding the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive after the first part of the file stored on the first tape cartridge has been read; dismounting the first tape cartridge from the first tape drive using the robot assembly while reading the second part of the file stored on the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive; and deallocating the first tape drive in response to the first allocation signal. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising: generating a second allocation signal after the second part of the file stored on the second tape cartridge has been read; providing the second allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a third tape cartridge in the first a third tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the second allocation signal by the robot assembly; and reading a third part of the file stored on the third tape cartridge with the third tape drive. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising: rewinding the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive after the second part of the file stored on the second tape cartridge has been read; and dismounting the second tape cartridge from the second tape drive using the robot assembly while reading the third part of the file stored on the third tape cartridge with the third tape drive. 11. A method for a tape storage library having at least two tape drives and a robot assembly for mounting and dismounting tape cartridges in the tape drives, the method comprising: mounting a first tape cartridge in a first tape drive using the robot assembly; recording a first part of a file on the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive; generating an allocation signal after the first part of the file has been recorded on the first tape cartridge; providing the allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a second tape cartridge in a second tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the allocation signal by the robot assembly; recording a second part of the file on the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive; rewinding the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive after the first part of the file has been recorded on the first tape cartridge; and dismounting the first tape cartridge from the first tape drive using the robot assembly while recording the second part of the file on the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising: generating a second allocation signal after the second part of the file has been recorded on the second tape cartridge; providing the second allocation signal to the robot assembly; mounting a third tape cartridge in a third tape drive using the robot assembly upon receipt of the second allocation signal by the robot assembly; and recording a third part of the file on the third tape cartridge with the third tape drive. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: rewinding the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive after the second part of the file has been recorded on the second tape cartridge; and dismounting the second tape cartridge from the second tape drive using the robot assembly while recording the third part of the file on the third tape cartridge with the third tape drive. 14. A tape storage library system comprising: a first tape drive for processing tape cartridges; a second tape drive for processing tape cartridges; a robot assembly for mounting and dismounting tape cartridges in the tape drives; and a controller operable with the first and second tape drives and the robot assembly to mount a first tape cartridge in the first tape drive, process the first tape cartridge in the first tape drive, generate a first allocation signal after the first tape cartridge has been processed, mount a second tape cartridge in the second tape drive after the first tape cartridge has been processed in response to the allocation signal, and then process the second tape cartridge in the second tape drive; wherein the controller is further operable with the first and second tape drives and the robot assembly to rewind the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive after the first tape cartridge has been processed, and dismount the first tape cartridge from the first tape drive while the second tape cartridge is being processed in the second tape drive. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising: a third tape drive for processing tape cartridges, wherein the controller is operable with the second and third tape drives and the robot assembly to generate a second allocation signal after the second tape cartridge has been processed, mount a third tape cartridge in the third tape drive after the second tape cartridge has been processed in response to the second allocation signal, and then process the third tape cartridge in the third tape drive. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein: the controller is further operable with the second and third tape drives and the robot assembly to rewind the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive after the second tape cartridge has been processed, and dismount the second tape cartridge from the second tape drive while the third tape cartridge has been processed with the third tape drive. 17. The system of claim 14 wherein: the controller processes the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive to write information of a first part of a file to the first tape cartridge and processes the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive to write information of a second part of the file to the second tape cartridge. 18. The system of claim 14 wherein: the controller processes the first tape cartridge with the first tape drive to read information of a first part of a file from the first tape cartridge and processes the second tape cartridge with the second tape drive to read information of a second part of the file from the second tape cartridge. 