A method and apparatus for processing a substrate is described. In one aspect, a processing system is provided which includes a wet area and a dry area. In another aspect, a method comprises processing the substrate in the process cell. The substrate is transferred from the process cell to a dry module and then transferring the substrate to a drying area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a semiconductor substrate in a processing system segmented into a wet area and a dry area, the method comprising: introducing the semiconductor substrate into the dry area of the processing system; moving the semiconductor substrate into the wet area of the processing system; processing the semiconductor substrate in an electrochemical process cell disposed within the wet area; cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate in a cleaning module disposed between the wet area and the dry area; and transferring the semiconductor substrate to the dry area of the processing system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate comprises removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the semiconductor substrate using a -spin-rinse-dry system, wherein the plurality of unwanted deposits are disposed on the semiconductor substrate as a result of processing the semiconductor substrate in the electrochemical process cell. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein cleaning the semiconductor substrate comprises: spinning the semiconductor substrate at a high angular velocity; and rinsing the semiconductor substrate with one or more of an etchant and deionized water. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate comprises removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the semiconductor substrate using a spin-rinse-dry system; and removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the beveled edges of the semiconductor substrate using an integrated bevel clean system. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the semiconductor substrate in the electrochemical process cell comprises exposing the semiconductor substrate to an electrolyte solution contained in the electrochemical process cell. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the semiconductor substrate in the electrochemical process cell comprises exposing the semiconductor substrate to an electrolyte solution contained in the electrochemical process cell; and wherein cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate comprises removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the semiconductor substrate using a spin-rinse-dry system. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising, after cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate, processing the semiconductor substrate in a rapid thermal anneal chamber. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising, after cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate, processing the semiconductor substrate in a rapid thermal anneal chamber located in the dry area of the processing system. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising, after cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate, processing the semiconductor substrate in a rapid thermal anneal chamber; wherein processing the semiconductor substrate in the electrochemical process cell comprises exposing the semiconductor substrate to an electrolyte solution contained in the electrochemical process cell; and wherein cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate comprises removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the semiconductor substrate using a spin-rinse-dry system. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the semiconductor substrate comprises a seed layer disposed thereon. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the cleaning and drying step comprises: removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the semiconductor substrate using a first spin-rinse-dry system and a second spin-rinse-dry system; and removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the beveled edges of the semiconductor substrate using an integrated bevel clean system. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the integrated bevel clean system is disposed between the first and the second spin-rinse-dry system. 13. A method of processing a semiconductor substrate in a processing system segmented into a wet area and a dry area, the method comprising: introducing the semiconductor substrate into the dry area of the processing system; moving the semiconductor substrate into the wet area of the processing system; processing the semiconductor substrate in an electrochemical process cell disposed within the wet area; cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate using a spin-rinse-dry system disposed between the wet area and the dry area, wherein cleaning the semiconductor substrate comprises spinning and rinsing the semiconductor substrate; and transferring the semiconductor substrate to the dry area of the processing system. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the semiconductor substrate comprises a seed layer disposed thereon. 15. An electroplating system, comprising: a wet area comprising one or more electrochemical process cells for processing one or more semiconductor substrates in an electrolyte solution; a dry area for transferring the semiconductor substrates to the wet area prior to processing the semiconductor substrates and receiving the semiconductor substrates from the wet area after processing the semiconductor substrates; and a cleaning module disposed between the wet area and the dry area, the cleaning module being configured for removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the one or more semiconductor substrates, the plurality of unwanted deposits being disposed on the semiconductor substrates as a result of processing the semiconductor substrates in the electrolyte solution. 16. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the dry area comprises a rapid thermal anneal chamber. 17. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises a spin-rinse module. 18. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises a spin-rinse-dry module, the spin-rinse-dry module comprising: a housing; a rotatable pedestal disposed in the housing; and a plurality of nozzles disposed around the housing for delivering rinsing fluid to the semiconductor substrates. 19. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises an integrated bevel clean module. 20. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises an integrated bevel clean module configured for removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the beveled edges of the semiconductor substrates. 21. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises a spin-rinse module and an integrated bevel clean module. 22. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises: a spin-rinse-dry module configured for removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the surfaces of the semiconductor substrates; and an integrated bevel clean module configured for removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the beveled edges of the semiconductor substrates. 23. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the cleaning module comprises a spin-rinse-dry module; and wherein the dry area comprises a rapid thermal anneal chamber. 24. The electroplating system of claim 15, wherein the dry area comprises a rapid thermal anneal chamber; and wherein the cleaning module comprises: a spin-rinse-dry module configured for removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the surfaces of the semiconductor substrates; and an integrated bevel clean module configured for removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the beveled edges of the semiconductor substrates. 25. The system of claim 15, wherein the wet area further comprises a wet robot for transferring the semiconductor substrates within the wet area and for transferring the semiconductor substrates between the wet area and the dry area. 26. The system of claim 15, wherein the dry area further comprises a dry robot for transferring the semiconductor substrates within the dry area and for transferring the semiconductor substrates between the dry area and the wet area. 27. A computer-readable medium containing a program which, when executed by a processor, performs an operation, comprising: introducing a semiconductor substrate into a dry area of a processing system; moving the semiconductor substrate into a wet area of the processing system; processing the semiconductor substrate in an electrochemical process cell disposed within the wet area; cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate in a cleaning module disposed between the wet area and the dry area; and transferring the semiconductor substrate to the dry area of the processing system. 28. The operation of claim 27, wherein cleaning the semiconductor substrate comprises: spinning the semiconductor substrate at a high angular velocity; and rinsing the semiconductor substrate with one or more of an etchant and deionized water. 29. The operation of claim 27, wherein cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate comprises at least one of removing a plurality of unwanted deposits from the semiconductor substrate using a spin-rinse-dry system and removing the plurality of unwanted deposits from the beveled edges of the semiconductor substrate using an integrated bevel clean system. 30. The operation of claim 27, further comprising, after cleaning and drying the semiconductor substrate, processing the semiconductor substrate in a rapid thermal anneal chamber. 31. The medium of claim 27, wherein the semiconductor substrate comprises a seed layer disposed thereon. 