The present invention relates generally to an improved laser welded work piece, such as an automotive body panel, and a system and method for the manufacture thereof. The invention is also directed to an improved system for manufacturing the welded work piece including an improved laser welder and a laser weld inspection device and system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser welding inspection system comprising: a laser welding device; an image capturing device for capturing a 2-dimensional image of a laser weld bead; an image processing device in electronic communication with the image capturing device, for measuring at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image captured by the image capturing device; a distinction device in electronic communication with the image processing device, for comparing the value of the at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead image measured by the image processing device with a reference value, to determine the quality of the laser weld. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the image capturing device is attached to and moves with the laser welding device. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the image capturing device is movable independently from the laser welding device. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the image capturing device is a video camera. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one characteristic of the laser weld bead is selected from the group consisting of bead width, top mismatch, top concavity, top convexity, root width, bottom mismatch, bottom concavity, and bottom convexity. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the characteristics of bead width, top mismatch, top concavity, top convexity, root width, bottom mismatch, bottom concavity, bottom convexity and any combination thereof are measured by the image processing device. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein any of the combinations measured by the image processing device are compared by the distinction device to a reference value corresponding to any of the measured characteristics. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising a welded work piece to be inspected after welding. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the work piece is welded together from blanks of approximately equal thickness. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the work piece is welded together from blanks of substantially dissimilar thickness. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the blanks are aligned so the bottom surface of each respective blank lies are coplanar after welding. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the blanks are aligned so the top surface of each respective blank lies are coplanar after welding. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein the blanks are aligned so neither the respective top surfaces nor the respective bottom surfaces of the blanks are coplanar after welding. 14. The system of claim 1 further comprising a second image capturing device, the image capturing device oriented to capture a weld bead image on the bottom surface of a welded work piece. 