In one embodiment the invention is An adhesive composition comprising a) a polymer having a flexible backbone and a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, b) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises a side chain crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is not substantially extractable from the particle at ambient conditions in a first extraction after particle formation. This composition is used in binding two subtracters together.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for binding two substrates together which comprises contacting the first substrate with an adhesive comprising a) a polymer having a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, b) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer or does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process; wherein about 1 percent by weight or less of the active agent is extractable from the particle at ambient conditions during the first extraction after particle formation when the particles are contacted with a solvent for the active agent which solvent is not a solvent for the crystallizable polymer; activating the adhesive composition on the first substrate by exposing the substrates and adhesive to sufficient heat to cause the encapsulating agent to release the active agent, so as to contact the active agent with the polymer; contacting the first substrate with the second substrate such that the adhesive composition is located between the two substrates; and exposing the adhesive to curing conditions. 2. A process for binding two substrates together according to claim 1, which comprises contacting the first substrate with an adhesive wherein the reaction moiety, is a reactive silicon moiety exposing the substrate and adhesive to sufficient heat to cause the encapsulating material to release the active agent so as to contact the active agent with the polymer, contacting the first substrate with the second substrate such that the adhesive is located between the two substrates and exposing the adhesive to atmospheric moisture so as to cause the reactive silicon moiety to undergo a silanol condensation reaction to effect cross-linking. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein one substrate is an automobile window and the other substrate is the flange of an automobile designed to hold the window in the automobile. 4. A window module comprising a substrate which is useful as a window which has an uncured adhesive applied to the portion of the window which is to be bound into a structure wherein the uncured adhesive comprising a) a polymer having a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, b) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer or does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process; wherein about 1 percent by weight or less of the active agent is extractable from the particle at ambient conditions during the first extraction after particle formation when the particles are contacted with a solvent for the active agent which solvent is not a solvent for the crystallizable polymer. 5. A window module according to claim 4 wherein the window comprises at least one sheet of glass wherein the adhesive is in the form of a bead applied to the periphery of one side of the glass. 6. A window module according to claim 5 wherein the active agent is an organometallic catalyst wherein the encapsulating agent is a side chain crystallizable polymer which comprises a polymer or copolymer of an alkyl acrylate or alkyl methacrylate wherein the polymer has substituted or unsubstituted side chains of about 6 to about 50 carbon atoms. 7. The module of claim 6 wherein the catalyst is dibutyltin bis(acetylacetonate), dibutyl tin diacetate or an adduct of dibutyl tin oxide and a phthalic acid ester or dibutyltinoxide. 8. A process for bonding a window into a structure which comprises applying a bead of adhesive to the portion of the window to be bonded to the structure; wherein the adhesive comprising a) a polymer having a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, b) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer or does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process; wherein about 1 percent by weight or less of the active agent is extractable from the particle at ambient conditions during the first extraction after particle formation when the particles are contacted with a solvent for the active agent which solvent is not a solvent for the crystallizable polymer; exposing the adhesive bead to temperatures at which the encapsulating agent undergoes sufficient change to allow the active agent to come into contact with the polymer; and contacting the portion of the window to which adhesive is applied with the structure under conditions that the adhesive cures and adheres the window to the structure. 9. The process according to claim 8 wherein the adhesive is applied to the window in a place which is remote from the place where the adhesive is heated and contacted with the substrate. 10. A window module comprising a window having a profiled strip of an uncured or partially uncured adhesive according to claim 1 about the periphery of one face of the window. 11. A process for binding two substrates together which comprises applying an adhesive according to claim 1 activating the adhesive composition on the first substrate exposing the substrates and adhesive to sufficient heat to cause the active encapsulating agent to release the active agent, so as to contact the active agent with the polymer, contacting the first substrate with the second substrate such that the adhesive composition is located between the two substrates, and exposing the adhesive to curing condition. 12. A process for mounting a window into a structure which comprises a) applying an adhesive in the form of a profiled strip about the periphery of one face of a window in a location remote from the location wherein the window is to be placed in the substrate wherein the adhesive is in an uncured or partially uncured state wherein the adhesive comprising b) a polymer having a reactive moiety capable of cross-linking, c) a particle comprising an active agent encapsulated in an encapsulating agent wherein the active agent comprises a catalyst for cross-linking of the reactive moiety, a curing agent for the reactive moiety, an accelerator for the curing reaction or a mixture thereof; and the encapsulating agent comprises crystallizable polymer wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer or does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process; wherein about 1 percent by weight or less of the active agent is extractable from the particle at ambient conditions during the first extraction after particle formation when the particles are contacted with a solvent for the active agent which solvent is not a solvent for the crystallizable polymer; d) transporting the window with the adhesive strip applied thereto to the location where the window is to be mounted into the structure; e) performing an operation upon the adhesive to activate curing of the adhesive; e) mounting the window into the structure such that the adhesive contacts the window and substrate; f) allowing the adhesive to cure such that the window is bonded into the substrate, wherein the adhesive does not completely cure when exposed to ambient conditions for at least about five days after application to the window and curing of the adhesive can be started by exposure to phenomena which causes the encapsulating agent to release the active agent wherein the exposure takes about 10 minutes or less. 13. A process according to claim 1 wherein the active agent is soluble in the crystallizable polymer and does not volatilize at the temperature of the encapsulation process. 14. A process of claim 13 wherein the active agent is an organotin compound. 15. A process according to claim 14 wherein the active agent is dibutyltin oxide, dialkyltin bis (acetylacetonate), or the reaction product of dibutyltin oxide with a phthalic ester or pentanedione. 16. A process according to claim 15 wherein the crystalline polymer is a side chain crystallizable polymer which comprises a polymer or copolymer of an alkyl acrylate or alkyl methacrylate wherein the polymer has substituted or unsubstituted side chains of about 6 to about 50 carbon atoms. 17. A process according to claim 16 wherein the polymer comprises a C.sub.22 side chain alkyl acrylate. 