A dual-arm wafer hand-off assembly includes a pair of pickup arms for transferring wafers within a wafer processing system. The two pickup arms are adapted to move such that the wafer on one of the arms can be positioned over the other arm and handed off. In one version, a Bernoulli-style wand translates along a linear guideway and may be positioned over a paddle-style pickup arm. The wafer carried by the Bernoulli wand can be handed off to the paddle by shutting off the flow of gas from the Bernoulli wand jets. The two pickup arms may be mounted on linear slides and adapted to translate between a load/unload chamber and a processing chamber, or the guideway may be adapted to rotate to allow transfer of wafers to multiple processing chambers in a cluster system. One of the pickup arms is preferably an all-quartz Bernoulli-style pickup arm having a proximal arm portion and a distal wand. The arm portion is formed by a pair of juxtaposed plates with a gas passage therethrough, and the distal wand is also formed by a pair of juxtaposed plates with a plurality of gas passages therethrough. The arm portion and the wand are fused together at their junction region. A wafer stop element is formed by a single quartz rod and is clipped to the arm portion to present a plurality of wafer stop pegs at a proximal periphery of the wand. The wafer stop element may be rapidly installed or removed without fasteners or bonding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A Bernoulli wand for moving a semiconductor wafer into and out of a high temperature wafer processing environment, the wand comprising: an elongated quartz arm to be supported on a proximal end by a device for moving the arm; a quartz pickup head mounted to a distal end of the arm and having a plurality of gas outlets through a lower wall from which gas may be expelled to create a reduced pressure region above a wafer and lift the wafer without contact with the head; and a resilient elongated quartz wafer stop removably mounted on the pickup arm and including a pair of spaced portions spaced from but adjacent to a proximal end of the head to limit the proximal movement of a wafer lifted by the head. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pickup head is wider than the arm and the wafer stop is removably mounted to a distal end of the arm and comprises a rod having bifurcated feet with distal ends extending outward from the arm adjacent the head and having the wafer-limiting portions. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the wafer-limiting portions are pegs provided on the distal ends. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the arm is formed by a pair of elongated quartz plates bonded together and forming between them a gas passage connected to the pickup head. 5. A Bernoulli wand for moving a semiconductor wafer into and out of a high temperature wafer processing environment, the wand comprising: an elongated quartz arm to be supported on a proximal end by a device for moving the arm; a quartz pickup head mounted to a distal end of the arm and having a plurality of gas outlets through a lower wall from which gas may be expelled to create a reduced pressure region above a wafer and lift the wafer without contact with the head; and a quartz wafer stop removably mounted on the pickup arm and including portions adjacent a proximal end of the head to limit the proximal movement of a wafer lifted by the head, wherein the pickup head is wider than the arm and the wafer stop is removably mounted to a distal end of the arm and comprises a rod having bifurcated feet with distal ends extending outward from the arm adjacent the head and having the wafer-limiting portions, and wherein the rod includes a bridge joining the bifurcated feet and sized longer than said arm is wide, the feet extending distally from said bridge generally parallel and to either side of the arm, each foot including a resilient quartz mounting element to retain the stop on the arm without fasteners or solid bonds. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the quartz mounting elements comprise thin rods extending from the feet to cooperate with the arm and retain the stop thereon. 7. A Bernoulli wand for moving a semiconductor wafer into and out of a high temperature wafer processing environment, the wand comprising: an elongated quartz arm to be supported on a proximal end by a device for moving the arm; a quartz pickup head mounted to a distal end of the arm and having a plurality of gas outlets through a lower wall from which gas may be expelled to create a reduced pressure region above a wafer and lift the wafer without contact with the head; and a quartz wafer stop removably mounted on the pickup arm and including portions adjacent a proximal end of the head to limit the proximal movement of a wafer lifted by the head, wherein the pickup head is wider than the arm and the wafer stop is removably mounted to a distal end of the arm and comprises a rod having bifurcated feet with distal ends extending outward from the arm adjacent the head and having wafer limiting portions, and wherein the bifurcated feet have a rod diameter enabling resilient outward movement of the feet upon contact between the wafer and wafer-limiting portions on the distal ends to allow for some cushioning of the impact between the wafer and wafer-limiting portions. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the feet include at least one peg and the arm includes cooperating laterally opening grooves to prevent relative distal movement but only resist relative proximal movement of the stop with respect to the arm, to enhance the cushioning of the impact between wafer and wafer-limiting portions. 9. A Bernoulli wand for moving a semiconductor wafer into and out of a high temperature environment, the wand comprising: an elongated quartz arm to be supported on a proximal end by a device for moving the arm; a quartz pickup head mounted to a distal end of the arm and having a plurality of gas outlets through a lower wall from which gas may be expelled to create a reduced pressure region above a wafer and lift the wafer without contact with the head; and a resilient quartz wafer stop removably attached on a distal end of the arm, said wafer stop comprising a single rod forming bifurcated feet connected by a substantially perpendicular bridge, said attachment effected by locating vertical restraints on proximal and distal sides of a fulcrum, the fulcrum comprising a mounting plate positioned beneath the wafer stop and mounted to the arm, the proximal vertical stop comprising the bridge, and the distal vertical stop comprising resilient mounting members attached to, and extending parallel to, each bifurcated foot. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the distal end of said bifurcated feet substantially conform to the perimeter shape of the wafer to be held by the wand. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising wafer-limiting portions formed on distal ends of the bifurcated feet of said wafer stop for contacting and inhibiting further proximal movement of the wafer. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the wafer stop has a cross-sectional diameter that allows it to be resilient in reaction to the force caused by a contacting wafer. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the bifurcated feet spread outwardly to cushion the impact of a wafer against them. 14. A device to be mounted on a Bernoulli wand to prevent rearward movement of a thin flat substrate, said device comprising: an elongated element having a pair of spaced, generally straight side portions configured to extend along the edges of an elongated arm of a Bernoulli wand to be supported on a rear end by a robot for moving the arm, said side portions having rear ends being connected by a bridge that extends across said arm; and a pair of spaced fingers connected to forward ends of said side portions, said fingers being configured to substantially conform to a portion of the perimeter of the substrate to be held by a pick up head of the wand mounted to the forward end of the elongated arm, each of said fingers including a plurality of dependent pegs to be engaged by said substrate to limit rearward movement of the substrate, said element being somewhat resilient so that said spaced fingers can flex outwardly slightly when the substrate is moved rearwardly against the pegs so as to gently engage the substrate and prevent damage to it. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein said spaced side portions each includes a thin retainer rod secured in a manner to permit a free end of each rod to flex into a position locking the side portions to the wand arm. 