A wafer handling system for a wafer processing apparatus includes a wafer load lock chamber, a wafer processing chamber and a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber. The transfer chamber includes a wafer transfer mechanism comprising a transfer arm pivotably coupled to a portion of the transfer chamber which forms an axis. The transfer arm is operable to rotate about the axis to transfer a wafer between the wafer load lock chamber and the process chamber in a single axis wafer movement. The invention also includes a method of transferring a wafer to a wafer processing apparatus. The method includes loading a wafer into a wafer load lock chamber and rotating a transfer arm into the wafer load lock chamber to retrieve the wafer therein. The method further includes rotating the transfer arm out of the wafer load lock chamber and into a process chamber to deposit the wafer therein, wherein the rotating of the transfer arm occurs in a single axis wafer movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer handling system for a wafer processing apparatus, comprising: at least one wafer load lock chamber; a wafer processing chamber; a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber, the transfer chamber including a wafer transfer mechanism comprising a transfer arm pivotably coupled to a portion of the transfer chamber forming a generally fixed axis, wherein a first generally distal end of the transfer arm and an opposite second generally distal end of the transfer arm are a fixed distance from the axis, and wherein the first generally distal end and the second generally distal end are operable to rotate about the axis between an interior region of the wafer load lock chamber and an interior region of the process chamber, transferring a wafer therebetween. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the transfer arm comprises an elongate member having an end effector on at least one generally distal end thereof, wherein the end effector interfaces with the wafer to effectuate the wafer transfer between the load lock chamber and the process chamber. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the end effector is a generally U-shaped member. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the elongate member is coupled to the axis at a midpoint thereof, and wherein the elongate member has an end effector on each generally distal end such that when the transfer arm is in a transfer position, one end effector is within the load lock chamber and the other end effector is within the process chamber. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the transfer arm is operable to rotate between a plurality of positions, wherein in a first position the transfer arm is within at least one of the load lock chamber and the process chamber and in a second position the transfer arm is within the transfer chamber. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer processing chamber comprises a plasma immersion ion implantation apparatus. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer load lock chamber further comprises a load lock cover operable to move between two positions, wherein a first position fluidly isolates a portion of the wafer load lock chamber from the transfer chamber, thereby allowing a pressure in the portion of the wafer load lock chamber to differ from a pressure in the transfer chamber during a wafer transfer from an ambient pressure environment external the wafer load lock chamber to the isolated portion of the wafer load lock chamber, and wherein a second position of the load lock cover brings the portion of the wafer load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber for transfer of a wafer between the wafer load lock chamber and the processing chamber via the transfer arm. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising a pump associated with the portion of the wafer load lock chamber, wherein the pump is operable to reduce a pressure within the portion of the wafer load lock chamber when the load lock cover is in the first position, thereby substantially matching a pressure in the portion of the wafer load lock chamber with a pressure in the transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer load lock chamber further comprises: an external access port for receiving a wafer into the wafer load lock chamber; and a selectively positionable isolation member within the wafer load lock chamber, positionable between an isolation position and a non-isolation position, wherein in the isolation position the isolation member sealingly engages a portion of the wafer load lock chamber associated with the external wafer load lock chamber access port, thereby permitting the transfer of a wafer to or from the wafer load lock chamber from an external ambient environment via the wafer load lock chamber access port without impacting processing conditions within the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, and wherein when the isolation member is in the non-isolation position the portion of the wafer load lock chamber is in fluid communication with the transfer chamber. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising an actuator operatively coupled to the isolation member, wherein the actuator is operable to selectively position the isolation member in the isolation position and the non-isolation position, respectively. 11. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second wafer load lock chamber operatively coupled to the transfer chamber. 12. A wafer handling system for a wafer processing apparatus, comprising: a wafer load lock chamber; a second wafer load lock chamber; a wafer processing chamber; and a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the wafer load lock chamber, the second wafer load lock chamber, and the wafer processing chamber, the transfer chamber including a wafer transfer mechanism comprising a transfer arm pivotably coupled to a portion of the transfer chamber forming a generally fixed axis, the transfer chamber further comprising a second transfer arm pivotably coupled to a second portion of the transfer chamber forming a generally fixed second axis, wherein a first generally distal end of the transfer arm and an opposite second generally distal end of the transfer arm are a fixed distance from the axis, and wherein the first generally distal end and the second generally distal end are operable to rotate about the axis between an interior region of the wafer load lock chamber and an interior region of the process chamber, transferring a wafer therebetween, and wherein a first generally distal end of the second transfer arm and an opposite second generally distal end of the second transfer arm are a second fixed distance from the second axis, and wherein the first generally distal end of the second transfer arm and the second generally distal end of the second transfer arm are operable to rotate about the second axis between an interior region of the second wafer load lock chamber and the interior region of the process chamber, transferring a wafer therebetween. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein axes of the transfer arm and the second transfer arm are different. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising load lock covers associated with the wafer load lock chambers, respectively, wherein each load lock cover is operable to move between two positions, wherein a first position fluidly isolates a portion of the respective wafer load lock chamber from the transfer chamber, thereby allowing a pressure in the portion of the wafer load lock chamber to differ from a pressure in the transfer chamber during a wafer transfer from an ambient pressure environment external the respective wafer load lock chamber to the isolated portion of the wafer load lock chamber, and wherein a second position of the load lock cover brings the portion of the respective wafer load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber for transfer of a wafer between the respective load lock chamber and the processing chamber via the respective transfer arm. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the each wafer load lock chamber further comprises: an external access port for receiving a wafer into the wafer load lock chamber; and a selectively positionable isolation member within the wafer load lock chamber, positionable between an isolation position and a non-isolation position, wherein in the isolation position the isolation member sealingly engages a portion of the wafer load lock chamber associated with the external load lock chamber access port, thereby permitting the transfer of a wafer to or from the wafer load lock chamber from an external ambient environment via the load lock chamber access port without impacting processing conditions within the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, and wherein when the isolation member is in the non-isolation position the portion of the wafer load lock chamber is in fluid communication with the transfer chamber. 16. A wafer handling system for a wafer processing apparatus, comprising: at least one wafer load lock chamber having a selectively actuable translation aperture associated therewith, wherein a wafer can translate therethrough; a wafer processing chamber having a selectively actuable translation aperture associated therewith, wherein the wafer can translate therethrough; a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber, the transfer chamber including a wafer transfer mechanism comprising a transfer arm pivotably coupled to a portion of the transfer chamber forming an axis, wherein a first generally distal end of the transfer arm and an opposite second generally distal end of the transfer arm are a fixed distance from the axis, and wherein the first generally distal end and the second generally distal end are operable to rotate about the axis through the translation apertures of the wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber, transferring a wafer therebetween, when actuated. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the transfer arm comprises an elongate member having an end effector on at least one generally distal end thereof, wherein the end effector interfaces with the wafer to effectuate the wafer transfer between the load lock chamber and the process chamber through the translation apertures. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the end effector is a generally U-shaped member. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the elongate member is coupled to the axis at a midpoint thereof, and wherein the elongate member has an end effector on each generally distal end such that when the transfer arm is in a transfer position, one end effector is within the load lock chamber and the other end effector is within the process chamber. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the transfer arm is operable to rotate between a plurality of positions, wherein in a first position the transfer arm is within at least one of the load lock chamber and the process chamber and in a second position the transfer arm is within the transfer chamber, and wherein the transfer arm is operable to rotate between the first position and the second position through the translation apertures in a single axis wafer movement. 21. The system of claim 16, wherein the wafer processing chamber comprises a plasma immersion ion implantation apparatus. 22. The system of claim 16, wherein the wafer load lock chamber further comprises a recess portion configured to support a wafer for transfer to and from the wafer load lock chamber, and a load lock cover operable to move between two positions, wherein a first position comprises the load lock cover sealingly engaging the recess portion, wherein the first position fluidly isolates vertically with respect to the recess portion the recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber from the transfer chamber, thereby allowing a pressure in the recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber to differ from a pressure in the transfer chamber during a wafer transfer from an ambient pressure environment external the wafer load lock chamber to the isolated portion of the wafer load lock chamber, and wherein a second position of the load lock cover raises the load lock cover out of the recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber and brings the recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber for transfer of a wafer between the wafer load lock chamber and the processing chamber via the transfer arm. 23. The system of claim 22, further comprising a pump associated with the portion of the wafer load lock chamber, wherein the pump is operable to reduce a pressure within the portion of the wafer load lock chamber when the load lock cover is in the first position, thereby substantially matching a pressure in the portion of the wafer load lock chamber with a pressure in the transfer chamber and the processing chamber. 24. The system of claim 16, wherein the wafer load lock chamber further comprises: an external access port for receiving a wafer into a recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber; and a selectively vertically positionable isolation member within the wafer load lock chamber, positionable between a vertically lowered isolation position and a vertically raised non-isolation position, wherein in the isolation position the isolation member sealingly engages the recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber associated with the external wafer load lock chamber access port, thereby permitting the transfer of a wafer to or from the wafer load lock chamber from an external ambient environment via the wafer load lock chamber access port without impacting processing conditions within the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, and wherein when the isolation member is in the vertically raised non-isolation position the recess portion of the wafer load lock chamber is in fluid communication with the transfer chamber. 25. The system of claim 24, further comprising an actuator operatively coupled to the isolation member, wherein the actuator is operable to selectively vertically position the isolation member in the vertically lowered isolation position and the vertically raised non-isolation position, respectively. 26. The system of claim 16, further comprising a second wafer load lock chamber operatively coupled to the transfer chamber. 27. A wafer handling system for a wafer processing apparatus, comprising: a wafer load lock chamber having a selectively actuable translation aperture associated therewith; a second wafer load lock chamber having a selectively actuable translation aperture associated therewith; a wafer processing chamber having a selectively actuable translation aperture associated therewith; a transfer chamber operatively coupled to the wafer load lock chamber, the second wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber, the transfer chamber including a wafer transfer mechanism comprising a transfer arm pivotably coupled to a portion of the transfer chamber forming an axis, the transfer chamber further comprising a second transfer arm pivotably coupled to a second portion of the transfer chamber forming a generally fixed second axis, wherein a first generally distal end of the transfer arm and an opposite second generally distal end of the transfer arm are a fixed distance from the axis, and wherein the first generally distal end of the transfer arm and the second generally distal end of the transfer arm are operable to rotate about the axis through the translation apertures of the wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber, transferring a wafer therebetween, when actuated, and wherein a first generally distal end of the second transfer arm and an opposite second generally distal end of the second transfer arm are a second fixed distance from the second axis, and wherein the first generally distal end of the second transfer arm and the second generally distal end of the second transfer arm are operable to rotate about the second axis through the translation apertures of the second wafer load lock chamber and the wafer processing chamber, transferring a wafer therebetween, when actuated. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein axes of the transfer arm and the second transfer arm are different. 29. The system of claim 28, further comprising load lock covers associated with the wafer load lock chambers, respectively, wherein each load lock cover is operable to move between two positions, wherein a first position fluidly isolates a portion of the respective wafer load lock chamber from the transfer chamber, thereby allowing a pressure in the portion of the wafer load lock chamber to differ from a pressure in the transfer chamber during a wafer transfer from an ambient pressure environment external the respective wafer load lock chamber to the isolated portion of the wafer load lock chamber, and wherein a second position of the load lock cover brings the portion of the respective wafer load lock chamber into fluid communication with the transfer chamber for transfer of a wafer between the respective load lock chamber and the processing chamber via the respective transfer arm. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the each wafer load lock chamber further comprises: an external access port for receiving a wafer into the wafer load lock chamber; and a selectively positionable isolation member within the wafer load lock chamber, positionable between an isolation position and a non-isolation position, wherein in the isolation position the isolation member sealingly engages a portion of the wafer load lock chamber associated with the external load lock chamber access port, thereby permitting the transfer of a wafer to or from the wafer load lock chamber from an external ambient environment via the load lock chamber access port without impacting processing conditions within the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, and wherein when the isolation member is in the non-isolation position the portion of the wafer load lock chamber is in fluid communication with the transfer chamber. 31. The system of claim 1, further comprising an end effector coupled to the transfer arm at a generally distal end thereof and defining an end axis thereat, and wherein the end effector is rotatably coupled to the generally distal end of the transfer arm for rotational movement about the end axis. 32. The system of claim 31, further comprising a controller associated with the system for sensing a rotational position of the transfer arm and controlling a rotational movement of the end effector about the end axis as a function of the rotational position, thereby effectuating a generally elliptical end effector transfer path when transferring the wafer between the load lock chamber and the process chamber. 33. The system of claim 16, further comprising an end effector coupled to the transfer arm at a generally distal end thereof and defining an end axis thereat, wherein: the end effector is rotatably coupled to the generally distal end of the transfer arm for rotational movement about the end axis, thereby moving the wafer in a generally dual axis elliptical movement; and a controller is operable to sense a rotational position of the end effector and control the rotation of the end effector about the end axis based, at least in part, on the rotational position of the end effector. 34. The system of claim 33, further comprising a controller associated with the system for sensing a rotational position of the transfer arm and controlling a rotational movement of the end effector about the end axis as a function of the rotational position, thereby effectuating a generally elliptical end effector transfer path when transferring the wafer between the load lock chamber and the process chamber. 