A method for reducing gap-drive wear while employing a variable-gap plasma processing chamber for etching at least partially through a Si.sub.3 N.sub.4 layer disposed on a substrate. The method includes introducing the substrate into the variable-gap plasma processing chamber while a gap between an upper surface of the substrate and an upper electrode of the variable-gap plasma processing chamber is maintained at a predefined gap distance. The method further includes flowing an etchant source gas comprising CF.sub.4 and O.sub.2 into the variable gap plasma processing chamber. There is further included etching the Si.sub.3 N.sub.4 layer with a plasma struck from the etchant source gas while maintaining the gap at substantially the predefined gap distance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for etching at least partially through a layer disposed on a substrate, comprising: introducing said substrate into a plasma processing chamber; flowing an etchant source gas into the plasma processing chamber; applying a first pressure set point to an automatic pressure control system to control the chamber pressure in the plasma processing chamber; stabilizing the chamber pressure in response to the first pressure set point; forming a plasma in the plasma processing chamber; applying a process pressure set point to the automatic pressure control system; stabilizing the chamber pressure in response to the process pressure set point, the first pressure set point being less than the process pressure set point so that the time required to stabilize the chamber pressure in response to the process pressure set point is less than the time required would be if the first pressure set point were equal to the process pressure set point; and Etching said layer with said plasma. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said first pressure set point is lower than said process pressure set point by about 100 mTorr. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said process pressure set point is about 500 mTorr. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said layer is a layer of nitride, said etchant source gas comprises CF.sub.4 and O.sub.2, and said etching is performed at a chamber pressure of about 400 mTorr to about 600 mTorr. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said etching is performed at a CF.sub.4 to O.sub.2 flow ratio of about 9:1. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said plasma processing chamber contains a top electrode and a bottom electrode, the bottom electrode being spaced apart from the top electrode by a gap, said substrate being disposed on the bottom electrode, and wherein said etching is performed at a chamber pressure of about 500 mTorr, a top RF power of about 300 Watts and a bottom electrode temperature of about 40.degree. C. 7. The method of claim 4 Wherein said nitride is Si.sub.3 N.sub.4. 