A method of training animals that are milked in a fully automated milking system wherein they enter a milking parlor at their own volition, not to enter the milking parlor too soon after the previous milking by causing the animal that does so to experience unpleasant procedures. The circumstance that the animal is visiting a milking parlor too soon after its last visit is sensed by the milk flow from at least one of the teats or because the automatic milking machine is unable to connect the teat cups to the animal's teats. In the latter event, the animal is immediately caused to depart from the milking parlor. In the former event, either the teat cups are immediately disconnected and the animal is caused to depart or the animal is milked for a prolonged period of time which is less than pleasant to the animal and then caused to depart. The prolonged milking may be coincident with alteration of the milk vacuum level. On the other hand, the milking parlor includes many attractions such as feed and drink to entice the animal to enter the milking compartment. The unpleasant procedures which occur when the animal enters the milking parlor too soon after a previous milking teaches it to space its entries into the milking parlor to when it needs to be milked.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatically milking animals that are able to move freely in an area intended therefor and to visit individually a milking parlor having a fully automatic milking machine provided with a milking robot, the method comprising admitting any animal into the milking parlor at any point of time when the milking parlor is ready for milking an animal irrespective of whether or not the animal so admitted is being admitted too early after its previous milking, ascertaining that an animal so admitted has been admitted too early after its last milking by the characteristics of its milk flow and causing the stay of such animal in the milking parlor to be a sufficiently unpleasant experience so as to discourage such animal from visiting the milking parlor in the future too soon after such animal's previous milking. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises providing an attraction in the milking parlor to entice said animals to enter said milking parlor. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises enticing said animals to enter said milking parlor by providing therein feed for the animals. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises providing allurement means to entice visits of said animals into said milking parlor, said allurement means comprising a liquid for the animals to drink while in said milking parlor. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises providing allurement means to entice visits by said animals into said milking parlor, said allurement means comprising an aromatic substance. 6. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises providing allurement means which is associated with said milking parlor to entice said animals to visit said milking parlor, said allurement means comprising visual means which are attractive to said animals. 7. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises providing allurement to entice said animals to visit said milking parlor, said allurement means comprising acoustic means which are attractive to said animals. 8. A method in accordance with claim 1, which comprises designing said milking parlor so that it is attractive to said animals by providing a resilient mat which supports said animals when they are in said milking parlor. 9. A method in accordance with claim 1, comprising designing said milking parlor so that it is comfortable and pleasant for said animals when they individually visit said milking parlor by providing an elevation for the forelegs of said animals when in said milking parlor. 10. A method in accordance with claim 1, comprising providing said milking parlor with allurement means which consists of one or more of the following: feed for an animal in said milking parlor, drink for an animal in said milking parlor, an aromatic substance that attracts said animals to enter and be in said milking parlor, visual means associated with said milking parlor which attracts said animals to enter and be in said milking parlor, acoustic means associated with said milking parlor which attracts said animals to enter and be in said milking parlor, a resilient mat which supports said animals when in said milking parlor, and an elevation for the forelegs of said animals in said milking parlor. 11. A method of automatically milking animals that are able to move freely in an area intended therefor and to visit individually a milking parlor having a fully automated milking machine provided with a milking robot, the method comprising cleaning and massaging the animal's udder, attempting for a predetermined number of tries to connect teat cups of the milking robot to the animal's udder and after said predetermined number of said tries prove unsuccessful, causing the animal to depart from said milking parlor. 12. A method of automatically milking animals that are able to move freely in an area intended therefor and to visit individually a milking parlor having a fully automated milking machine including a milking robot, the method comprising connecting teat cups from the milking machine to the teats of the animal in the milking parlor, measuring milk flow from at least one of the animal's teats by a flow sensor, comparing said milk flow with a threshold value of milk flow and selectively if said milk flow is above said threshold value continuing to milk said animal or, if said milk flow below said threshold value, disconnecting said teat cups from said animal's teats after a period of time which is less than pleasant to said animal, and causing said animal to depart from said milking parlor. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12 which comprises the additional step of altering the milk vacuum level to which said teats of said animal are exposed while the teat cups are connected to said animal's teats. 14. A method of automatically milking animals that are able to move freely in an area intended therefor and to visit individually a milking parlor having a fully automated milking machine including a milking robot, the method comprising connecting said teat cups from the milking machine to the teats of the animal in the milking parlor, measuring the milk flow from at least one of the animal's teats by a flow sensor, comparing said milk flow with a threshold value of milk flow and selectively if said milk flow is above said threshold value continuing to milk said animal or, if said milk flow is below said threshold value, altering the vacuum level to which the teats of said animal are exposed while the teat cups are connected to said animal's teats and continuing to milk said animal while the teats of said animal are exposed to said altered milk value vacuum level for a period of time, disconnecting said teat cups from said animal's teats and causing said animal to depart from said milking parlor. 