A calibration apparatus for use with a storage system for storing a plurality of objects in an array of object storage locations. In a preferred embodiment, the calibration apparatus includes a target affixed in a predetermined location to the storage system, an object retrieval mechanism, and an imaging system. The object retrieval mechanism is used for retrieving objects from the object storage locations and has a principal direction of movement which is perpendicular to a plane in which an exposed surface of each of the plurality of objects lie. The imaging system is attached to the object retrieval mechanism for imaging the target. The imaging system is positioned such that the direction from the target to the imaging system is parallel to the principal direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration apparatus for use with a storage system for storing a plurality of objects in an array of object storage locations, comprising: an object retrieval mechanism for retrieving objects from said object storage locations; a calibration block moveably attached to said storage system, having at least one nesting feature for engaging a portion of said object retrieval mechanism and having a target; and an imaging system attached to said object retrieval mechanism for capturing an image of a portion of said target for use in calibrating said object retrieval mechanism. 2. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said object retrieval mechanism has a principal direction of movement, said calibration block is free to move in any of two orthogonal directions, and the two orthogonal directions are both substantially perpendicular to the principal direction of movement. 3. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said calibration block is moveably attached to said storage system with a plurality of springs. 4. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein a direction from said target to said imaging system is substantially parallel to said principal direction. 5. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein an offset by which said retrieval component needs to be adjusted for proper calibration is obtained based the position of the target relative to a scan line generated by the camera as compared to a nominal position of the target. 6. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the imaging system comprises a camera. 7. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the imaging system comprises a line scan camera. 8. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said target is an "N"-shaped target having a first stripe, a second stripe parallel to said first stripe, and a middle stripe positioned diagonally between said first stripe and said second stripe, said first, middle and second stripes being aligned in a horizontal direction. 9. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said target is a triangular shaped target. 10. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said imaging said target produces an imaged target, which is analyzed to determine a vertical offset of said object retrieval mechanism with respect to a given one of said plurality of object storage locations. 11. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said imaging said target produces an imaged target which is analyzed to determine a vertical offset of said object retrieval mechanism with respect to a given one of said objects. 12. The calibration apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of object storage locations is configured to hold a tape cartridge for use in a data processing system. 13. A method of calibrating a object retrieval mechanism for use in a object storage library, comprising the steps of: inserting at least a portion of the object retrieval mechanism into a moveable calibration block; obtaining an image of the target after said inserting step; and using the position of the target in the image as compared to a nominal position to calculate an offset by which the object retrieval mechanism must be adjusted when retrieving an object from the object storage library. 14. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the target is an "N"-shaped target having a first stripe, a second stripe parallel to said first stripe, and a middle stripe positioned diagonally between said first stripe and said second stripe, said first, middle and second stripes being aligned in a horizontal direction. 15. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the objects are tape cassettes for use in a data processing system. 16. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the object retrieval mechanism is a robotic arm. 17. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the obtaining an image step is performed using a camera. 18. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein the camera is a line scan camera. 19. The method as recited in claim 18, wherein the images are line scans. 