Methods for assembling, handling, and fabricating are disclosed in which targets are used on objects. The targets can be specifically applied to the object, or can be an otherwise normal feature of the object. Conveniently, the targets are removable from the object or covered by another object during an assembling process. One or more robots and imaging devices for the targets are used. The robots can be used to handle or assemble a part, or a fixture may be used in conjunction with the robots. Conveniently, the CAD design system is used in designing the targets as well as for the assembly process using the targets. A plurality of targets can also be used to monitor and inspect a forming process such as on a sheet panel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of successively determining a 3D position or orientation of an object using a detected set of targets on said object, said method comprising: providing an object having a set of original targets which are detectable by an electro-optical sensor, the number of original targets in a viewed portion of the object exceeding a number of targets required to determine the 3D position or 3D orientation of said object; viewing a portion of said object with an electro-optical sensing means having an output; analyzing said output of said electro-optical sensing means to detect, from those original targets of the set which are detected, a first subset of detectable targets in the viewed portion of the object; further analyzing said output of said electro-optical sensing means to determine the 3D position or 3D orientation of said object using said first subset of detectable targets; subsequently viewing the portion of said object with said electro-optical sensing means, where at least one of the detectable targets of said first subset of detectable targets in the viewed portion of the object is missing, obscured or degraded; analyzing said output of said electro-optical sensing means to detect, from those original targets of the set which are now detected, a second subset of detectable targets in the viewed portion of the object which excludes at least one detectable target of said first subset which is now missing, obscured or degraded; and further analyzing said output of said electro-optical sensing means to determine the 3D position or 3D orientation of said object using said second subset of detectable targets. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said analyzing to detect steps include a selecting of the subset of detectable targets based on a determination of a detected quality of those original targets of the set which are detected. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said analyzing to detect steps include a selecting of the subset of detectable targets based upon a determination of which targets would provide the most accurate solution to a photogrammetric equation. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said subsets of detected targets each comprise three targets. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least one target in said set of original targets comprises au LED, and wherein said method further comprises illuminating said LED. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least one target in said set of original targets comprises a fiber optic element, and wherein said method further comprises illuminating said fiber optic element. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least one target in said set of original targets comprises a retroreflective target, and wherein said method further comprises illuminating said retroreflective target. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said electro-optical sensing means comprises at least one TV camera. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said electro-optical sensing means comprises two TV cameras positioned to view the object in a stereo relationship. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said analyzing to detect steps include a selecting of the subset of detected targets using a microcomputer. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said further analyzing to determine steps include the utilizing of a data base of said object in determining said position or orientation of said object. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said data base comprises a design data base of said object. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said original targets is a natural object feature. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said first subset includes all of the set of original targets. 