A computer controlled method utilizing robots for the fairing and painting of marine vessel surfaces comprising the steps of analyzing the vessel hull and/or superstructure for imperfections; applying a fairing compound to the imperfections; smoothing the imperfections into alignment with the hull and/or superstructure; and applying a final paint finish to the hull and/or superstructure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for fairing and painting the entire hull and/or superstructure of a marine vessel, utilizing a robot system which includes multiple robots positioned on moveable means and having arms provided with various attachments, moveable about various control axes, comprising the steps of: A. Positioning said marine vessel so as to provide said robots access to said hull and superstructure; B. Analyzing said vessel's hull and superstructure for imperfections, wherein this analyzing step includes utilizing lasers, affixed to the robots, in a surface mapping system; C. Applying a fairing compound to said imperfections; D. Sanding said fairing compound in alignment with said hull and/or superstructure; E. Removing any compound dust generated by the sanding process; and F. Painting said hull and/or superstructure. 2. A computer-implemented method for fairing and painting the entire hull and/or superstructure of a marine vessel, utilizing a robot system which includes multiple robots positioned on moveable means and having arms provided with various attachments, moveable about various control axes, comprising the steps of: A. Positioning said marine vessel so as to provide said robots access to said hull and superstructure; B. Analyzing said vessel's hull and superstructure for imperfections, wherein this analyzing step includes utilizing radar, affixed to the robots, in a surface mapping system; C. Applying a fairing compound to said imperfections; D. Sanding said fairing compound in alignment with said hull and/or superstructure; E. Removing any compound dust generated by the sanding process; and F. Painting said hull and/or superstructure. 3. A computer-controlled method for finishing at least the entire hull of a marine vessel, involving a computer for directing the movement of robots, said robots positioned on movable means, such as a gantry, tracks and/or a gantry-tracks combination, each of said robots having a base, a primary arm, a secondary arm and a wrist terminating in a support head, and various tools attachable to said wrists or said bases, the method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning said marine vessel, relative to said robots, so that said robots are operatively accessible to surfaces defined by said marine vessel; (b) attaching and using an analyzer tool on each of said robots for analyzing the surfaces of said marine vessel to detect contours and imperfections, wherein this analyzing step includes the production of a surface map by the use of lasers attached to said robots; (c) attaching and using a surface sensing tool on each of said robots for preparing said surfaces for painting; and (d) attaching and using a painting tool on each of said robots for painting said surfaces. 4. A computer-controlled method for finishing at least the entire hull of a marine vessel, involving a computer for directing the movement of robots, said robots positioned on movable means, such as a gantry, tracks and/or a gantry-tracks combination, each of said robots having a base, a primary arm, a secondary arm and a wrist terminating in a support head, and various tools attachable to said wrists or said bases, the method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning said marine vessel, relative to said robots, so that said robots are operatively accessible to surfaces defined by said marine vessel; (b) attaching and using an analyzer tool on each of said robots for analyzing the surfaces of said marine vessel to detect contours and imperfections, wherein this analyzing step includes the production of a surface map by the use of radar attached to said robots; (c) attaching and using a surface sensing tool on each of said robots for preparing said surfaces for painting; and (d) attaching and using a painting tool on each of said robots for painting said surfaces. 