A method whereby a sample handler moves and positions racks, containing sample tubes, in an analytical instrument. The sample handler has an in-feed and out-feed that advance sample tube racks using a walking beam mechanism. The racks are seated within the in-feed and are transported onto a cross-feed. The racks and tubes contained thereon are moved past detection devices that identify the samples and measure various properties thereof. Thereafter, the cross-feed moves the racks to a position behind the out-feed where the walking beam mechanism moves the tube racks out of the analytical instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for transferring at least one rack having at least one container placed thereon into, within and out of an instrument by employing a sample handler, said sample handler comprising an infeed having a first walking beam mechanism, an outfeed having a second walking beam mechanism, a cross-feed adjacent said infeed and outfeed having a first means for detecting a property of said at least one of said racks and said at least one container thereon and a stat shuttle having a second means similar to said first means, inputting said at least one rack into said infeed, transferring said at least one rack from said infeed to a first position on said cross-feed, transporting said at least one rack on said cross-feed from said first position adjacent said infeed and to a second position on said cross-feed, passing said first means during said transport, and if said first device was unable to identify said property, transferring said at least one container from said at least one rack at said second position to said stat shuttle, whereby said at least one container is transported past said second means whereby further identification occurs. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one container has machine-readable codes and said first and second means are readers for reading machine-readable code and said method further comprises identifying said at least one container using said readers. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said first and second means are ultrasonic sensors and said method further comprises taking a plurality of level readings of said at least one rack and said at least one container in said at least one rack. 