Specific embodiments of the present invention are directed to a method of forming a polishing pad having a smaller diameter than an object to be planarized and to be used for planarizing the object by chemical-mechanical planarization. The method comprises placing a polishing surface of the polishing pad in contact with an abrasive surface of a conditioning object having a shape identical to the object to be planarized. The polishing surface of the polishing pad is engaged with the abrasive surface of the conditioning object under conditions substantially equal to the conditions to be applied for planarizing the object. The polishing surface is observed, and is disengaged from the abrasive surface of the conditioning object when abrasion of a center region of the polishing surface of the polishing pad by the abrasive surface of the conditioning object is initially detected. In a specific embodiment, another polishing pad is preformed to have the shape of the polishing surface of the polishing pad after disengaging the polishing pad from the conditioning object. That polishing pad may be preformed by molding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a polishing pad having a smaller diameter than an object to be planarized and to be used for planarizing the object by chemical-mechanical planarization, the method comprising: placing a polishing surface of the polishing pad in contact with an abrasive surface of a conditioning object having a shape identical to the object to be planarized; engaging the polishing surface of the polishing pad with the abrasive surface of the conditioning object under conditions substantially equal to the conditions to be applied for planarizing the object; observing the polishing surface; and disengaging the polishing surface of the polishing pad from the abrasive surface of the conditioning object when abrasion of a center region of the polishing surface of the polishing pad by the abrasive surface of the conditioning object is initially detected. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the polishing surface of the polishing pad is pushed against the abrasive surface of the conditioning object by a force substantially equal to a force to be applied to the polishing pad against the object to be planarized. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the polishing pad is moved relative to the conditioning object in a manner similar to a movement for planarizing the object. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the polishing pad is rotated relative to the conditioning object at a rate which is lower than a rate of rotation for planarizing the object. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising shaping another polishing pad to have a profile similar to a profile of the polishing surface of the polishing pad after disengaging the polishing pad from the conditioning object. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said another polishing pad is shoved by molding. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the steps of placing the polishing surface of the polishing pad in contact with the abrasive surface of the conditioning object and engaging the polishing surface of the polishing pad with the abrasive surface of the conditioning object are performed with a polishing apparatus; and further comprising polishing a wafer using said another polishing pad with the same polishing apparatus. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising cleaning the polishing apparatus before polishing the wafer. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the conditioning object comprises a layer of fine sand paper having the abrasive surface. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the polishing surface of the polishing pad has a substantially flat center region and a rounded edge region after being disengaged from the abrasive surface of the conditioning object. 