A method and apparatus for providing a non-destructive pre-test screen of specimen integrity for a blood analyzer by measurement of absorbance or reflectance is provided. The method involves measurement of polychromatic light in the near infrared and adjacent visible region, which is either transmitted or reflected from a specimen as presented for measurement, and correlation of the measurement, on the basis of predetermined algorithms, to the quantity of a known substance contained in the sample. The apparatus employs a spectrophotometer which emits radiation which is split into a beam which passes to a sample and a reference beam, the beam returning from the sample and the reference beam are variably combined and further separated into various components by means of a grating and focused onto a linear array detector. A microprocessor receives output from the array detector and performs calculations of concentration(s) of the known substance(s). The invention provides quality assurance for state-of-the art blood analyzers and automated laboratories by pre-screening serum and plasma integrity, even where labels on the sample container would normally interfere with a quality assurance assessment, identifying samples not suitable for certain blood tests, or, if tests are conducted on specimens with compromised integrity, the pre-screening results will aid in the interpretation of the test results.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for rejecting a sample contained in a sample container from further clinical assay based on determining the concentration of at least one interferent in the sample, the method comprising the steps of: positioning the sample container in a spectrophotometer such that the sample can be irradiated by the spectrophotometer; irradiating the sample with at least one frequency of radiation; correlating absorbance of the radiation by the sample with a standard for the interferent(s) to determine the concentration of the interferent(s); and rejecting the sample if the concentration of the interferent(s) exceeds a predetermined criteria. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the radiation is near infrared and adjacent visible region light. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said near infrared and adjacent visible region light has wavelengths from about 450 nm to about 1080 nm. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3 where the interferent is selected from the group consisting of haemoglobin, bilirubin, and intralipid. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the frequencies of radiation are 603 nm, 679 nm and 1044 nm all of which are used to correlate to quantities of haemoglobin; 641 nm, 662 nm, 731 nm, and 763 nm all of which are used to correlate to quantities of bilirubin; and 975 nm which is used to correlate to quantities of intralipids. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said correlating includes calculating the first derivatives of at least two portions of a spectrum generated from a scan for a particular interferent which are used in an algorithm in respect of the interferent(s) to calculate the particular interferent(s) concentration(s). 7. The method of claim 6, wherein integration time for said sample beam is low for clear samples and automatically switched to a higher integration time for turbid samples. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sample includes a label, a container and a specimen and said radiation is transmitted through said label which is located on the exterior of said container. 9. A method for rejecting a plasma sample contained in a sample container from further clinical assay based on determining the concentration of at least one interferent in the sample, the method comprising the steps of: positioning the sample container in a spectrophotometer such that the plasma sample can be irradiated by the spectrophotometer; irradiating the plasma sample with at least one frequency of radiation; correlating absorbance of the radiation by the plasma sample with a standard for the interferent(s) to determine the concentration of the interferent(s) including calculating the first derivatives of at least two portions of a spectrum generated from a scan for a particular interferent which are used in an algorithm in respect of the interferent(s) to calculate the particular interferent(s) concentration(s); and said algorithm(s) in respect of haemoglobin, bilirubin and intralipids are, respectively: where (Xnm) is the first derivative of the value of an absorbance measured at the wavelength specified; where (Ynm) is the first derivative of the value of an absorbance measured at the wavelength specified; and where (Znm) is the raw absorbance measured at the wavelength specified; and rejecting the plasma sample if the concentration of the interferent(s) exceeds a predetermined criteria. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said algorithms in respect of haemoglobin, bilirubin, and intralipid are, respectively: Haemoglobin Bilirubin Intralipid Where (Xnm) is the first derivative of the absorbance measurement at the wavelengths specified for all three interferents. 11. A method for rejecting a sample contained in a sample container from further clinical assay based on determining the concentration of at least one interferent in the sample, the method comprising the steps of: positioning the sample container in a spectrophotometer such that the sample can be irradiated by the spectrophotometer; irradiating the sample with at least one frequency of radiation; correlating reflectance of the radiation by the sample with a standard for the interferent(s) to determine the concentration of the interferent(s); and rejecting the sample if the concentration of the interferent(s) exceeds a predetermined criteria. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the radiation is near infrared and adjacent visible region light. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein said near infrared and adjacent visible region light has wavelengths from about 450 nm to about 1080 nm. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13 where the interferent is selected from the group consisting of haemoglobin, bilirubin, and intralipid. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the first derivative of absorbance is used to correlate said quantity of interferent. 