A method and apparatus for analyzing molecular structures within a sample substance using an array having a plurality of test sites upon which the sample substance is applied. The invention is also directed to a method and apparatus for constructing molecular arrays having a plurality of test sites. The invention allows for definitive high throughput analysis of multiple analytes in complex mixtures of sample substances. A combinatorial analysis process is described that results in the creation of an array of integrated chemical devices. These devices operate in parallel, each unit providing specific sets of data that, when taken as a whole, give a complete answer for a defined experiment. This approach is uniquely capable of rapidly providing a high density of information from limited amounts of sample in a cost-effective manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A small molecule universal array comprising a plurality of wells, wherein each well comprises a plurality of biosites, wherein each biosite comprises only one specie of immobilized small molecule and at least one biosite has a specie of small molecule differing from a second biosite, and a bi-specific molecule comprising two domains, wherein the first domain binds to the immobilized small molecule and the second domain comprises an analyte-binding domain. 2. The small molecule universal array of claim 1, wherein each well comprises at least four biosites, wherein each biosite comprises a different specie of immobilized small molecule. 3. The small molecule universal array of claim 1, wherein the immobilized small molecules comprise haptens. 4. The small molecule universal array of claim 1, wherein the immobilized small molecules are selected from the group consisting of fluorescein, biotin, 2, 4 dinitrophenol, TRITC and digoxigenin. 5. The small molecule universal array of claim 1, wherein the immobilized small molecules are selected from the group consisting of dinitrophenol; amphetamine; barbiturate; acetaminophen; acetohexamide; desipramine; lidocaine; digitoxin; chloroquinine; quinine; ritalin; phenobarbital; phenytoin; fentanyl; phencyclidine; methamphetamine; metaniphrine; digoxin; penicillin; tetrahydrocannibinol; tobramycin; nitrazepam; morphine; Texas Red; primaquine; progesterone; bendazac; carbamazepine; estradiol; theophylline; methadone; methotrexate; aldosterone; norethisterone; salicylate; warfarin; cortisol; testosterone; nortrptyline; propanolol; estrone; androstenedione; digoxigenin; biotin; thyroxine; and triiodothyronine. 6. The small molecule universal array of claim 1, wherein the small molecule is selected from the group consisting of a peptide, a drug and a hapten. 