The present invention provides novel microfluidic devices and methods for performing pulsed field mobility shift assays in microfluidic devices. In particular the devices and methods of the invention utilize differences between electrophoretic mobilities (e.g., as between reactants and products, especially in non-fluorogenic reactions) in order to separate the species and thus analyze the reaction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting an interaction between a first molecule and at least a second molecule in a microfluidic device, the method comprising: flowing a first labeled molecule with a first electrophoretic mobility through at least a first microchannel, wherein flowing of the first molecule comprises a continuous injection of the first molecule; flowing at least a second molecule with a second electrophoretic mobility through the microchannel, wherein flowing of the second molecule comprises an intermittent injection of the second molecule at a first frequency; applying a pulsed electric field through the microchannel, wherein the pulsed electric field separates the first and at least second molecule based upon the electrophoretic mobilities of the molecules; adjusting the pressure induced velocity or electrokinetic mobility of the two molecules to optimize a measurement of assay sensitivity by maximizing a value of .DELTA.C.sub.I/C.sub.o, wherein .DELTA.C.sub.1 is the difference in concentration of the two molecules when the pulsed field is on and C.sub.o is the concentration of one of the molecules when the pulsed field is off; and detecting a level of label or a level of signal from a label in the microchannel over a select time period. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least second molecule comprises a second molecule and at least a third molecule. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first molecule comprises a first component of a receptor-ligand pair, the second molecule comprises a second component of the receptor-ligand pair, and the at least third molecule comprises the receptor-ligand pair. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the first molecule comprises a first component of an antibody-antigen pair, the second molecule comprises a second component of the antibody-antigen pair, and the at least third molecule comprises the antibody-antigen pair. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the first molecule comprises a first component of an at least partially complementary double-stranded nucleic acid, the second molecule comprises a second component of the at least partially complementary double-stranded nucleic acid, and the at least third molecule comprises a double-stranded nucleic acid comprising the first and second components. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the first molecule comprises a substrate, the second molecule comprises an enzyme and the at least third molecule comprises a product. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the product comprises the label of the first molecule. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the product comprises the first molecule, wherein such molecule comprises a changed electrophoretic mobility. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least second molecule comprises a derivative form of the first molecule. 10. The method of claim 2, further comprising at least a fourth molecule, wherein the fourth molecule comprises one or more of: a reaction enhancer, a reaction inhibitor, or a reaction competitor. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein a size of one or more of: the first molecule, the second molecule, the third molecule, or the fourth molecule changes after the interaction. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein a charge of one or more of: the first molecule, the second molecule, the third molecule, or the fourth molecule, changes after the interaction. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein an electrophoretic mobility of one or more of: the first molecule, the second molecule, the third molecule, or the fourth molecule, changes after the interaction. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction comprises one or more of: an enzymatic reaction or a binding reaction. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing comprises use of one or more of: electrophoretic transport, electroosmotic transport, pressure based transport, wicking based transport, or hydrostatic pressure based transport. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein flowing comprises incubating the first and at least second molecule together for a specific period of time. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the label comprises one or more of: a fluorescent label, a chemiluminescent label, or a radioactive label. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrophoretic mobility of the first molecule is greater than the electrophoretic mobility of the at least second molecule. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrophoretic mobility of the first molecule is lesser than the electrophoretic mobility of the at least second molecule. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least second molecule comprises a label. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the label of the at least second molecule comprises a same label type as the label of the first molecule. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the label of the at least second molecule comprises a different label type than the label of the first molecule. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein applying a pulsed electric field comprises applying a first specific voltage or electric current through the microchannel for a first specific period of time followed by applying a second specific voltage or electric current for a second specific period of time. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the first and second periods of time are equal. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the first and second time periods comprise from at least about 0.1 second to about 20 seconds or more, from at least about 0.5 seconds to about 15 seconds or more, from at least 1 second to at least about 10 seconds or more, or from at least about 5 seconds to at least about 7 seconds or more. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the first and second periods of time are not equal. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the first and second time period differ by a factor of about 1, of about 2, of about 3, of about 4, of about 5, of about 10, of about 25, or of about 50. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the first and second specific voltages or electric currents comprise from at least about 10 V/cm to about 3,000 V/cm or more, from at least about 50 V/cm to about 2,000 V/cm or more, from at least about 100 V/cm to at least about 1,000 V/cm or more, or from at least about 250 V/cm to at least about 750 V/cm or more. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein the first and second specific periods of time are selectively set in relation to the flowing of the second molecule into the microchannel and wherein the flowing of the second molecule into the microchannel comprises a third specific period of time. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the first or second period of time is from at least about 1 to about 100 or more, from at least about 5 to at least about 75, from at least about 10 to at least about 50, or from at least about 25 to at least about 45 times shorter than the third period of time. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting comprises determining reaction kinetics for the interaction between the first molecule and the at least second molecule. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least first microchannel comprises one or more of: a polymer gel, a microfabricated barrier, or a sieving matrix. 