A workpiece positioner is provided including a positioner chassis, a specially designed rotary framework, and first and second sets of workpiece supports. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, a workpiece positioner is provided comprising a positioner chassis, a rotary framework, and first and second sets of workpiece supports. The rotary framework defines opposite rotary framework ends and is coupled to the positioner chassis so as to be rotatable about a longitudinal framework axis. The first set of workpiece supports is positioned on opposite ones of the rotary framework ends so as to define a first workpiece axis extending between the first set of workpiece supports. The second set of workpiece supports is positioned on opposite ones of the rotary framework ends so as to define a second workpiece axis extending between the second set of workpiece supports. The first workpiece axis and the second workpiece axis lie in a common workpiece plane. The rotary framework includes a crossing structure secured to the opposite rotary framework ends and extending along the longitudinal framework axis. The crossing structure comprises supportive sheet material. The supportive sheet material is arranged so as to be intersected by the common workpiece plane. A transverse cross section of the supportive sheet material converges in the direction of the common workpiece plane.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece positioner comprising: a positioner chassis; a rotary framework defining opposite rotary framework ends and coupled to said positioner chassis so as to be rotatable about a longitudinal framework axis; a first set of workpiece supports positioned on opposite ends of said rotary framework so as to define a first workpiece axis extending between said first set of workpiece supports; a second set of workpiece supports positioned on opposite ends of said rotary framework so as to define a second workpiece axis extending between said second set of workpiece supports, wherein said first workpiece axis and said second workpiece axis lie in a common workpiece plane, said rotary framework includes a crossing structure secured to said opposite rotary framework ends and extending along said longitudinal framework axis, said crossing structure comprises supportive sheet material, said supportive sheet material is arranged so as to be intersected by said common workpiece plane, and a transverse cross section of said supportive sheet material converges in the direction of said common workpiece plane. 2. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transverse cross section includes a first angle defining a first workpiece accommodating sector and wherein said first workpiece axis is arranged within said first workpiece accommodating sector along a projection bisecting said first angle. 3. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transverse cross section includes a first angle defining a first workpiece accommodating sector and wherein said first workpiece axis is arranged within said first workpiece accommodating sector along a projection bisecting said first angle. 4. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 1 wherein said crossing structure is arranged to function as an arc shield where workpieces supported between said first and second sets of workpiece supports are processed by arc welding robots. 5. A workpiece positioner comprising: a positioner chassis; a rotary framework coupled to said positioner chassis so as to be rotatable about a longitudinal framework axis, wherein said rotary framework defines opposite rotary framework ends and includes a crossing structure secured to and extending between said opposite rotary framework ends, said crossing structure comprises supportive sheet material, and said supportive sheet material defines an X-beam transverse cross section; a first set of workpiece supports positioned on opposite ends of said rotary framework so as to define a first workpiece axis extending between said first set of workpiece supports; and a second set of workpiece supports positioned on opposite ends of said rotary framework so as to define a second workpiece axis extending between said second set of workpiece supports. 6. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 5 wherein said supportive sheet material includes offset central apexes. 7. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 5 wherein said supportive sheet material includes a primary supportive sheet and a pair of minor supportive sheets. 8. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 5 wherein said supportive sheet material includes a pair of elbow portions and respective arm extensions extending from said elbow portions. 9. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 5 wherein said transverse cross section includes a first angle defining a first workpiece accommodating sector and wherein said first workpiece axis is arranged within said first workpiece accommodating sector along a projection bisecting said first angle. 10. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 5 wherein said transverse cross section includes a second angle defining a second workpiece accommodating sector and wherein said second workpiece axis is arranged within said second workpiece accommodating sector along a projection bisecting said second angle. 11. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 5 wherein said crossing structure is arranged to function as an arc shield where workpieces supported between said first and second sets of workpiece supports are processed by arc welding robots. 12. A workpiece positioner comprising: a positioner chassis; a rotary framework coupled to said positioner chassis so as to be rotatable about a longitudinal framework axis, wherein said rotary framework defines opposite rotary framework ends and includes a crossing structure secured to and extending between said opposite rotary framework ends, said crossing structure comprises supportive sheet material, said supportive sheet material defines at least two intersecting supportive planes and a transverse cross section including at least one supportive apex; a first set of workpiece supports positioned on opposite ends of said rotary framework so as to define a first workpiece axis extending between said first set of workpiece supports; and a second set of workpiece supports positioned on opposite ends of said rotary framework so as to define a second workpiece axis extending between said second set of workpiece supports. 13. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said transverse cross section includes a first angle defining a first workpiece accommodating sector and wherein said first workpiece axis is arranged within said first workpiece accommodating sector along a projection bisecting said first angle. 14. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said transverse cross section includes a second angle defining a second workpiece accommodating sector and wherein said second workpiece axis is arranged within said second workpiece accommodating sector along a projection bisecting said second angle. 15. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein: said intersecting supportive planes are defined by a primary supportive sheet, a first minor supportive sheet, and a second minor supportive sheet; and said primary supportive sheet is disposed between said first and second workpiece axes such that a first side of said primary supportive sheet faces said first workpiece axis and a second side of said primary supportive sheet faces said second workpiece axis. 16. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 15 wherein: said first minor supportive sheet is mechanically coupled to said first side of said primary supportive sheet along a first coupling line parallel to said first workpiece axis; and said second minor supportive sheet is mechanically coupled to said second side of said primary supportive sheet along a second coupling line parallel to said second workpiece axis. 17. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 16 wherein said first and second coupling lines are displaced from each other along a diametrical dimension of said primary supportive sheet. 18. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 15 wherein said first minor supportive sheet includes an elbow portion and an arm extension, and wherein said arm extension is mechanically coupled to said first side of said primary supportive sheet so as to form a first triangular cross sectional portion of said crossing structure. 19. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 15 wherein said second minor supportive sheet includes an elbow portion and an arm extension, and wherein said arm extension is mechanically coupled to said second side of said primary supportive sheet so as to form a second triangular cross sectional portion of said crossing structure. 20. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein: said supportive sheet material includes a pair of elbow portions, respective arm extensions extending from said elbow portions, and a substantially planar portion defined between said pair of elbow portions; and each of said arm extensions defines a plane intersecting a plane defined by said substantially planar portion. 21. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 20 wherein: said intersecting supportive planes are defined by a primary supportive sheet, a first minor supportive sheet, and a second minor supportive sheet; said primary supportive sheet is disposed between said first and second workpiece axes such that a first side of said primary supportive sheet faces said first workpiece axis and a second side of said primary supportive sheet faces said second workpiece axis; said supportive sheet material further includes a first minor supportive sheet coupled between a first one of said arm extensions and said first side of said primary supportive sheet; and said supportive sheet material further includes a second minor supportive sheet coupled between a second one of said arm extensions and said second side of said primary supportive sheet. 22. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said first workpiece axis and said second workpiece axis are positioned on opposite sides of a portion of said supportive sheet material. 23. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said crossing structure is arranged to function as a primary source of rotational coupling between said opposite rotary framework ends about said framework axis. 24. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said crossing structure is arranged to function as a sole source of rotational coupling between said opposite rotary framework ends about said framework axis. 25. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said first set of workpiece supports are arranged to permit rotation of a workpiece about said first workpiece axis and wherein said second set of workpiece supports are arranged to permit rotation of a workpiece about said second workpiece axis. 26. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said workpiece positioner further comprises a single drive motor and a clutch assembly, and wherein said single drive motor and said clutch assembly are arranged to impart selectively rotary motion to said rotary framework about said framework axis and rotary motion to a workpiece supported by a selected set of workpiece supports. 27. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said workpiece positioner further comprises a pair of drive motors, wherein a first motor of said pair of drive motors is arranged to impart rotary motion to said rotary framework about said framework axis, and wherein a second motor of said pair of drive motors is arranged to impart rotary motion to a workpiece supported by a selected set of workpiece supports. 28. A workpiece positioner as claimed in claim 12 wherein said crossing structure is arranged to function as an arc shield where workpieces supported between said first and second sets of workpiece supports are processed by arc welding robots. 