A jig for aligning a wafer-handling system in a calibration location, such as a wafer pickup-dismount location, with respect to a wafer-processing tool. The jig comprises an alignment fixture adapted to be repeatably mounted on the tool and having one or more edge stops. The jig may further comprise an edge-to-center locator adapted to be mounted on the alignment fixture. The edge-to-center locator has a peripheral edge and a center marker that identifies the precise center of the calibration location when the edge-to-center locator edge is positioned in contact with the edge stop or stops. An alignment method for use of the jig is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A wafer processing tool calibration jig for aligning a wafer in a calibration location with respect to a wafer-processing tool, the jig comprising: an alignment fixture comprising means for removably mounting the fixture on the wafer-processing tool, and at least one edge stop means for unyieldingly contacting a periphery of the wafer when the wafer is aligned in the calibration location. 2. The wafer processing tool calibration jig of claim 1 further comprising: an edge-to-center locator mounted on the alignment fixture, the edge-to-center locator having a peripheral edge and a center marker identifying a precise center of the calibration location when the peripheral edge of the edge-to-center locator is positioned in contact with the at least one edge stop means. 3. The jig according to claim 2 wherein the edge-to-center locator center marker comprises a visual alignment device. 4. The jig according to claim 2 wherein the edge-to-center locator center marker comprises a set of cross-hairs. 5. A wafer processing tool comprising a first wafer-handling system, a second wafer-handling system, and the wafer processing tool calibration jig of claim 1 wherein the calibration location is a wafer pickup-dismount location that is a wafer dismount location of the first wafer-handling system and a wafer pickup location of the second wafer-handling system. 6. The wafer processing tool of claim 5 wherein the tool is a lithography tool. 7. A wafer-handling system comprising the wafer processing tool calibration jig of claim 1 wherein the wafer-handling system comprises an edge-handling system adapted to handle the wafer by the wafer edge. 8. A wafer-handling system comprising the wafer processing tool calibration jig of claim 1 wherein the wafer-handling system comprises a center-handling system adapted to handle the wafer by the wafer center. 9. The wafer processing tool calibration jig of claim 1 wherein the alignment fixture permits rotation of the wafer when aligned on the alignment jig. 10. A wafer processing tool comprising a calibration location for aligning a wafer with the wafer processing tool and a calibration jig for aligning the wafer in the calibration location, the jig comprising an alignment fixture having means for removably mounting the fixture on the wafer-processing tool, and at least one edge stop means for contacting a periphery of the wafer when the wafer is aligned in the calibration location. 11. A wafer-processing tool comprising a tilt-plate assembly and a wafer processing tool calibration jig comprising an alignment fixture having means for removably mounting the fixture on the tilt plate assembly and at least one edge stop means for contacting a periphery of the wafer when the wafer is aligned on the jig. 12. The wafer processing tool of claim 11 wherein the means for removably mounting the fixture on the tilt-plate assembly comprises a three-point alignment system. 13. A wafer-processing tool, comprising a tilt-plate assembly having a post and a peripheral edge; and a wafer processing tool calibration jig comprising an alignment fixture comprising: at least two contact points for contacting the tilt-plate assembly peripheral edge for removably mounting the fixture on the tilt-plate assembly in a calibration location; at least one edge stop adapted to contact a periphery of the wafer when the wafer is aligned in the calibration location; and a hole having an inside edge positioned so that the tilt-plate assembly post protrudes through the hole and contacts the inside edge when the alignment fixture is mounted on the tilt-plate assembly. 14. The wafer processing tool of claims 13 wherein the alignment fixture further comprises an edge-to-center locator having a peripheral edge and a center marker identifying a precise center of the calibration location when the peripheral edge of the edge-to-center locator is positioned in contact with the at least one edge stop. 15. The wafer processing tool of claim 14 wherein the edge-to-center locator center marker comprises a visual alignment device. 16. The wafer processing tool of claim 14 wherein the edge-to-center locator center marker comprises a set of cross-hairs. 17. The wafer processing tool of claim 13 further comprising a first wafer-handling system and a second wafer-handling system, wherein the calibration location is a wafer pickup-dismount location that is a wafer dismount location of the first wafer-handling system and a wafer pickup location of the second wafer-handling system. 18. The wafer processing tool of claim 17 wherein at least one of the first wafer-handling system and the second wafer-handling system comprises an edge-handling system adapted to handle the wafer by the wafer edge. 19. The wafer processing tool of claim 17 wherein at least one of the first wafer-handling system and the second wafer-handling system comprises a center-handling system adapted to handle the wafer by the wafer center. 20. The wafer processing tool of claim 13 wherein the hole in the alignment fixture is D-shaped. 21. The wafer processing tool of claim 13 wherein the edge stop is radially adjustable relative to the wafer. 22. The wafer processing tool of claim 13 wherein the alignment fixture comprises a clamp mechanism, a first part of the clamp mechanism comprising the at least two contact points, and a second part of the clamp mechanism comprising a third contact point being adjustable relative to the first part to clamp the alignment fixture onto the tilt-plate assembly. 23. The wafer processing tool of claim 13 wherein the tool comprises a lithography tool. 24. The wafer processing tool calibration jig of claim 1 wherein the edge stop is radially adjustable relative to the wafer. 