A processing station adaptable to standard cluster tools has a vertically-translatable pedestal having an upper wafer-support surface including a heater plate adapted to be plugged into a unique feedthrough in the pedestal. At a lower position for the pedestal wafers may be transferred to and from the processing station, and at an upper position for the pedestal the pedestal forms an annular pumping passage with a lower circular opening in a processing chamber. A removable, replaceable ring at the lower opening of the processing chamber allows process pumping speed to be tailored for different processes by replacing the ring. In some embodiments the pedestal also has a surrounding shroud defining an annular pumping passage around the pedestal. A unique two-zone heater plate is adapted to the top of the pedestal, and connects to a unique feedthrough allowing heater plates to be quickly and simply replaced. In some embodiments the top of the processing chamber is removable allowing users to remove either pedestals or heater assemblies. Or both, through the open top of a processing station. In preferred embodiments the system is adapted to atomic layer deposition processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ALD processing station for a cluster tool system, comprising: a processing chamber portion having a lower extremity with a first cross-sectional area; a base chamber portion below the processing chamber portion, the base chamber portion having a vacuum pumping port and a substrate transfer port, and a second cross-sectional area below the lower extremity of the processing chamber greater than the first cross-sectional area; a substrate support pedestal having an upper substrate support surface with a third cross-sectional area less than the first cross-sectional area and adapted to the base chamber portion below the transfer port by a dynamic vacuum seal allowing vertical translation; a vertical-translation drive system adapted to translate the substrate support pedestal to place the upper support surface at a processing position substantially even with the lower extremity of the processing chamber, or at a lower transfer position in the base chamber portion above the pumping port and below the transfer port; and a demountable gas supply lid mounted to the processing chamber, the lid for providing gases according to an atomic layer deposition (ALD) protocol; wherein, with the substrate support pedestal at the processing position and the base chamber portion form a first pumping passage having a first total effective area determining a first limited pumping speed from the processing chamber portion through the vacuum pumping port, and with the substrate support pedestal at the lower transfer position and the base chamber portion form a second annular pumping passage having a second effective area greater than the first effective area, allowing a second pumping speed from the processing chamber greater than the first limited pumping speed. 2. The processing chamber of claim 1 wherein the first cross-sectional area is formed by a replaceable ring, thereby allowing the first pumping speed to be incrementally varied by interchanging replaceable rings having constant outer diameter and differing inner diameter. 3. The processing chamber of claim 1 further comprising an annular shroud surrounding a portion of the substrate support pedestal beginning at the upper support surface and extending below the upper support surface, wherein the pumping area of the annular shroud at the height of the upper support surface is substantially equal to the first cross sectional area, such that, with the substrate support pedestal in the processing position the annular shroud mates with the base chamber portion constraining all gas flow from the processing chamber to flow within the annular shroud between the annular shroud and the substrate support pedestal. 4. The processing station of claim 1 wherein the demountable lid closing an upper extremity of the processing chamber is mounted with a demountable seal, such that the lid and the dynamic vacuum seal may be demounted, allowing the substrate support pedestal to be withdrawn from within the base chamber portion upward through the processing chamber portion. 5. The processing station of claim 4 wherein the demountable lid comprises a gas distribution system for providing processing gases evenly over an exposed surface of a substrate supported on the substrate support pedestal with the substrate support pedestal in the processing position. 6. The processing station of claim 1 wherein the substrate support pedestal comprises a closure plate parallel with the upper support surface and forming a vacuum boundary for the processing chamber, a heater plate on the processing chamber side thermally-insulated from the closure plate, and an electrically-isolated susceptor spaced-apart from and above the heater plate, the susceptor forming the upper support surface. 7. The processing station of claim 6 wherein the heater plate is a composite heater plate having at least two separately-powered heating regions, allowing temperature profile across the plate to be managed by managing power to the separately-powered regions. 8. The processing station of claim 7 wherein an inner heating region is separated from an outer heating region by at least one groove substantially through the heater plate. 9. The processing station of claim 7 wherein the inner heating region has a cross-sectional are substantially equal to a cross-sectional area of a substrate to be heated by the heater plate. 10. The processing station of claim 1 wherein the dynamic vacuum seal is a stainless steel bellows. 