A mail slot mechanism, a small automated storage library incorporating the mail slot mechanism, and method of operating the mail slot mechanism to insert and remove storage media cartridges from a small automated storage library are disclosed. The storage library includes an array of cartridge slots. Each cartridge slot is adapted to hold one storage media cartridge. One or more of these cartridge slots may function as the mail slot. Each mail slot has a top opening and a side opening through which one storage media cartridge can pass. The mail slot is disposed adjacent an opening in the storage library's housing and is pivotable between a user access position and a robot access position. A resilient member biases the mail slot toward the robot access position. A storage media cartridge may be manually inserted and removed through the top opening in the mail slot while the mail slot is at the user access position. The storage library's robotic mechanism may insert and remove one storage media cartridge at a time through the side opening in the mail slot while the mail slot is at the robot access position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library for housing a plurality of storage media cartridges, the storage library comprising: a housing having an opening; a plurality of cartridge slots each having a first opening and being disposed inside the housing to hold the plurality of storage media cartridges, wherein at least one cartridge slot of the plurality of cartridge slots is a mail slot, wherein the mail slot disposed adjacent to the opening in the housing, is pivotable between a first position and a second position, and has a second opening that is disposed on a top of the mail slot as defined with the mail slot at the first position, wherein manual insertion of one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and manual removal of one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot while the mail slot is at the second position; and a robotic mechanism disposed inside the housing and operative to move the plurality of storage media cartridges one at a time among the plurality of cartridge slots including the mail slot, wherein the robotic mechanism inserts one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and removes one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position. 2. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the mail slot is biased toward the second position by gravity. 3. The storage library of claim 1 further comprising a resilient member biasing the mail slot toward the first position. 4. The storage library of claim 3 further comprising a door attached to the housing and aligned with the opening in the housing, the door having an open and a closed position, wherein the resilient member is disposed between the door and the mail slot to bias the mail slot toward the first position when the door is at the closed position. 5. The storage library of claim 3 wherein the resilient member engages the mail slot in an over-center arrangement to bias the mail slot toward the first position when the mail slot is at the first position, and toward the second position when the mail slot is at the second position. 6. The storage library of claim 1 further comprising a keeper device engaging the mail slot for holding the mail at the first position. 7. The storage library of claim 1 further comprising a sensor in communication with the mail slot and operative to detect when the mail slot is at the first position. 8. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the mail slot protrudes through the opening in the housing when the mail slot is at the second position. 9. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the cartridge slots are oriented in a horizontal row. 10. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the housing has a front and the opening of the housing is provided in the front, and wherein the cartridge slots are oriented in a row that extends in a direction substantially perpendicular to the front. 11. The storage library of claim 10 wherein the row extends horizontally. 12. A mechanism for permitting a storage media cartridge to be manually inserted into and removed from a housing having an opening, the mechanism comprising: a mail slot for holding the storage media cartridge, the mail slot having a first opening and a second opening, the mail slot being disposed adjacent the opening in the housing, and being pivotable between a first position and a second position, wherein storage media cartridge insertion into and removal from the mail slot are accomplished through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position, and wherein storage media cartridge manual insertion into and removal from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the second position; and a resilient member that engages the mail slot in an over-center arrangement to bias the mail slot toward the first position when the mail slot is at the first position, and toward the second position when the mail slot is at the second position. 13. The mechanism of claim 12 wherein the mail slot is biased toward the second position by gravity. 14. The mechanism of claim 12 further comprising a keeper device engaging the mail slot for holding the mail slot at the first position. 15. The mechanism of claim 12 wherein the second opening of the mail slot is on a top of the mail slot as defined with the mail slot at the first position. 16. The mechanism of claim 12 further comprising a sensor in communication with the housing and operative to detect when the mail slot is at the first position. 17. A method of operating a plurality of cartridge slots, wherein each cartridge slot of the plurality of cartridge slots has a first opening, and at least one cartridge slot of the plurality of cartridge slots is a mail slot having a second opening, the method comprising: allowing the mail slot to pivot between a first position and a second position; allowing gravity to bias the mail slot toward the second position; receiving and discharging one storage media cartridge at a time through the first opening of each cartridge slot of the plurality of cartridge slots, including the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position; and receiving and discharging one storage media cartridge at a time at least partially through the second opening of the mail slot when the mail slot is at the second position. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising resiliently biasing the mail slot toward the first position. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising resiliently biasing the mail slot toward the second position when the mail slot is at the second position. 20. The method of claim 17 further comprising capturing the mail slot at the first position. 21. The method of claim 17 further comprising detecting when the mail slot is at the first position. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein the plurality of cartridge slots are disposed inside a housing having an opening, the method further comprising traversing the second opening of the mail slot through the opening in the housing when the mail slot is pivoted between the first position and the second position. 23. A storage library for housing a plurality of storage media cartridges, the storage library comprising: a housing having an opening; a plurality of cartridge slots disposed inside the housing and being configured to hold the plurality of storage media cartridges, each cartridge slot having a first opening, one cartridge slot being a mail slot, wherein the mail slot is disposed adjacent to the opening in the housing, is pivotable between a first position and a second position, is biased toward the second position by gravity, and has a second opening, and wherein manual insertion of one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and manual removal of one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot while the mail slot is at the second position; and a robotic mechanism disposed inside the housing and operative to move the plurality of storage media cartridges one at a time among the plurality of cartridge slots including the mail slot, wherein the robotic mechanism inserts one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and removes one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position. 24. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the second opening of the mail slot is on a top of the mail slot as defined with the mail slot at the first position. 25. A storage library for housing a plurality of storage media cartridges, the storage library comprising: a housing having an opening; a door attached to the housing and being alignable with the opening in the housing, the door being movable between an open position and a closed position; a plurality of cartridge slots disposed inside the housing and being configured to hold the plurality of storage media cartridges, each cartridge slot having a first opening, one cartridge slot being a mail slot, wherein the mail slot is disposed adjacent to the opening in the housing, is pivotable between a first position and a second position, and has a second opening, and wherein manual insertion of one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and manual removal of one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot while the mail slot is at the second position; a resilient member disposed between the door and the mail slot to bias the mail slot toward the first position when the door is at the closed position; and a robotic mechanism disposed inside the housing and operative to move the plurality of storage media cartridges one at a time among the plurality of cartridge slots including the mail slot, wherein the robotic mechanism inserts one storage media cartridge at a time into mail slot and removes one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position. 26. The storage library of claim 25 wherein the mail slot is biased toward the second position by gravity. 27. The storage library of claim 25 wherein the second opening of the mail slot is on a top of the mail slot as defined with the mail slot at the first position. 28. The storage library of claim 25 wherein the resilient member is mounted on the mail slot. 29. A storage library for housing a plurality of storage media cartridges, the storage library comprising: a housing having an opening; a plurality of cartridge slots disposed inside the housing and being configured to hold the plurality of storage media cartridges, each cartridge slot having a first opening, one cartridge slot being a mail slot, wherein the mail slot is disposed adjacent to the opening in the housing, is pivotable between a first position and a second position, and has a second opening, and wherein manual insertion of one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and manual removal of one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot while the mail slot is at the second position; a resilient member that engages the mail slot in an over-center arrangement to bias the mail slot toward the first position when the mail slot is at the first position, and toward the second position when the mail slot is at the second position; and a robotic mechanism disposed inside the housing and operative to move the plurality of storage media cartridges one at a time among the plurality of cartridge slots including the mail slot, wherein the robotic mechanism inserts one storage media cartridge at a time into the mail slot and removes one storage media cartridge at a time from the mail slot through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position. 30. A mechanism for permitting a storage media cartridge to be manually inserted into and removed from a housing having an opening, the mechanism comprising a mail slot for holding the storage media cartridge, the mail slot having a first opening and a second opening, the mail slot being disposed adjacent the opening in the housing and being pivotable between a first position and a second position, the mail slot further being biased toward the second position by gravity, wherein storage media cartridge insertion into and removal from the mail slot are accomplished through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position, and wherein storage media cartridge manual insertion into and removal from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the second position. 31. A mechanism for permitting a storage media cartridge to be manually inserted into and removed from a housing having an opening, the mechanism comprising a mail slot for holding the storage media cartridge, the mail slot having a first opening and a second opening, the mail slot being disposed adjacent the opening in the housing and being pivotable between a first position and a second position, the second opening in the mail slot being disposed on top of the mail slot as defined with the mail slot at the first position, wherein storage media cartridge insertion into and removal from the mail slot are accomplished through the first opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the first position, and wherein storage media cartridge manual insertion into and removal from the mail slot are accomplished at least partially through the second opening in the mail slot when the mail slot is at the second position. 32. The mechanism of claim 12 further comprising a resilient member biasing the mail slot toward the first position. 33. The mechanism of claim 32 wherein the resilient member engages the mail slot in an over-center arrangement to bias the mail slot toward the first position when the mail slot is at the first position, and toward the second position when the mail slot is at the second position. 34. The storage library of claim 32 wherein the cartridge slots are oriented in a horizontal row. 35. The storage library of claim 32 wherein the housing has a front and the opening of the housing is provided in the front, and wherein the cartridge slots are oriented in a row that extends in a direction substantially perpendicular to the front. 36. The storage library of claim 35 wherein the row extends horizontally. 