Racks having sample containers mounted therein are transported within an analytical system so that a robotic arm can remove the sample containers and deliver them to a desired location within the system. The sample handler has an in-feed and out-feed that advance sample tube racks using a walking beam mechanism. Sample tube racks are seated within the in-feed and are transported onto a cross-feed. The cross-feed comprises a movable track having a platform mounted thereto. The cross-feed moves the sample tube racks from a position behind the in-feed to a position behind the out-feed where the walking beam mechanism moves the tube racks out of the analytical instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. A sample handler for an analytical instrument, said sample handler handling a rack, having a left side and a right side and a tab on each of said right and left sides of said rack, to transport at least one container within said sample handler, said sample handler comprising: a feeder for feeding said rack comprising a first set of right and left side walls from which said rack may be suspended by said tabs, a movable tray having a second set of right and left side walls from which said rack may be suspended by said tabs, and a walking beam mechanism comprising a pair of walking beams that moves said tray so as to transfer said tabs on said rack between said first and second sets of side walls when said rack is placed in said tray, wherein said tray has a front and a rear and guide rails from said front to said rear of said tray to prevent said rack from skewing in said tray. 2. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said guide rails are placed asymmetrically between said second set of side walls. 3. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said feeder is an infeed into which said rack is input. 4. The sample handler of claim 3 wherein said infeed has a front and a rear and a range sensor is located behind said rear of said infeed to detect the inputting of said rack into said tray. 5. The sample handler of claim 1 wherein said feeder is an outfeed which outputs said rack from said sample handler. 6. The sample handler of claim 5 wherein said outfeed and said tray together define front area and a rear area, and said first and second sets of side walls have a top rim which in said rear area has at least two detents, said tabs on each of said right and left sides of said rack resting within said detents. 7. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said plurality of detents have a trapezoidal shape defining a ridge. 8. The sample handler of claim 7 wherein said ridge has a length between said detents and said walking beam mechanism has a cam having a profile that allows said tray to lift said rack above said ridge and move said rack from a first of said detents to a second of said detents. 9. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said top rim of said second set of side walls in said front area has an undercut and said walking beam mechanism for said outfeed has a cam that does not lift said top rim of second set of side walls in said front area above said top rim of said first set of side walls in said front area. 10. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said front area of said tray is operator-accessible and said tray has a finger stop extending between at least a portion of said front and rear areas to minimize a possibility of an operator from pushing said rack sitting in a frontmost of said detents on said first or second sets of side walls backwards. 11. The sample handler of claim 6 wherein said front area of said tray is operator-accessible and said outfeed further comprises clamps mounted to said first set of side walls adjacent a frontmost of said plurality of said detents on said first set of side walls to coact with said tabs on said rack to hold said rack in said frontmost detents in said first set of side walls to prevent an operator from pushing said rack backwards. 12. A sample handler for an analytical instrument, said sample handler handling a rack, having a left side and a right side and a tab on each of said right and left sides of said rack, to transport at least one container within said sample handler, said sample handler comprising an outfeed for feeding said rack comprising a first set of right and left side walls from which said rack may be suspended by said tabs, a movable tray having a second set of right and left side walls from which said rack may be suspended by said tabs, and a walking beam mechanism comprising a pair of walking beams that moves said tray so as to transfer said tabs on said rack between said first and second sets of side walls when said rack is placed in said tray, wherein said tray has a front area and a rear area, and said first and second sets of side walls have a top rim which in said rear area has a plurality of detents separated by a plurality of ridges. 13. The sample handler of claim 12 wherein said plurality of detents have a trapezoidal shape. 14. The sample handler of claim 12 wherein said top rim of said second set of side walls in said front area has an undercut and said walking beam mechanism for said outfeed has a cam that does not lift said top rim of second set of side walls in said front area above said top rim of said first set of side walls in said front area. 15. The sample handler of claim 12 herein said front area of said tray is operator-accessible and said tray has a finger stop extending between at least a portion of said front and rear areas to minimize a possibility of an operator from pushing said rack sitting in a frontmost of said plurality of detents on said first or second sets of side walls backwards. 16. The sample handler of claim 12 wherein said front area of said tray is operator-accessible and said outfeed further comprises clamps mounted to said first set of side walls adjacent said frontmost of said plurality of said detents on said first set of side walls to coact with said tabs on said rack to hold said rack in said frontmost detents to prevent an operator from pushing said rack backwards. 