A system and method for planarizing a plurality of semiconductor wafers is provided. The method includes the steps of processing each wafer along the same process path using at least two polishing stations to each partially planarize the wafers. The system includes an improved process path exchanging a detachable wafer carrying head with spindles at each processing point and conveying the detached wafer carrying heads in a rotary index table between processing points. The system also provides for improved polishing accuracy using linear polishers having pneumatically adjustable belt tensioning and aligning capabilities.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of transporting a semiconductor wafer between a wafer conveyor and each of a plurality of wafer processing stations in a wafer polishing system, the method comprising: moving a wafer holding head away from a first wafer processing station to a wafer head retainer on the wafer conveyor, the wafer holding head mounted to a first spindle and carrying the semiconductor wafer; releasably locking the wafer holding head to the wafer conveyor and disengaging the wafer holding head from the first spindle; and moving the wafer conveyor so that the wafer holding head moves to a position adjacent a second wafer processing station. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the wafer holding head from the wafer head retainer and transporting the wafer holding head from the wafer conveyor to the second wafer processing station with a second spindle. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein removing the wafer holding head from the wafer head retainer and transporting the wafer holding head from the wafer conveyor to the second wafer processing station with a second spindle comprises unlocking the wafer holding head from the wafer head retainer and engaging the wafer holding head with the second spindle. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein moving the wafer holding head away from the first wafer processing station comprises moving the wafer head in a direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of the first spindle. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein moving the wafer conveyor comprises rotating the wafer conveyor a predetermined rotational amount about a central axis. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein moving the wafer conveyor further comprises moving the wafer conveyor at constant time intervals. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein moving the wafer conveyor comprises moving the wafer conveyor in a same direction each time the wafer conveyor moves. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the wafer carrier comprises a number of wafer head retainers equal to a corresponding number of wafer processing stations such that moving the wafer conveyor moves each of the wafer head retainers to a respective one of the corresponding number of wafer processing stations. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein releasably locking the wafer holding head to the wafer conveyor and disengaging the wafer holding head from the first spindle comprises moving the wafer head retainer with at least one actuator to engage cooperative connectors on the wafer head retainer and the wafer holding head. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein releasably locking the wafer holding head to the wafer conveyor and disengaging the wafer holding head from the first spindle comprises extending at least one projection from the wafer head retainer into a projection receiving area on the wafer holding head when the wafer holding head is received at the wafer conveyor. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafer head retainer comprises a wafer rinse assembly, and wherein the method further comprises rinsing the semiconductor wafer while moving the wafer conveyor to the position adjacent the second wafer processing station. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein rinsing the semiconductor wafer comprises rinsing the semiconductor wafer with deionized water. 13. A method of transporting a semiconductor wafer to a wafer conveyor in a wafer polishing system, the method comprising: connecting a spindle to a wafer holding head mounted in a wafer head retainer on a wafer conveyor; disengaging the wafer holding head from the wafer head retainer on the wafer conveyor; moving the wafer holding head away from the wafer conveyor with the spindle toward a wafer loader; mounting the semiconductor wafer on the wafer holding head; moving the wafer holding head to the wafer head retainer on the wafer conveyor; engaging the wafer holding head with the wafer head retainer on the wafer conveyor; and disconnecting the spindle from the wafer holding head. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein mounting the semiconductor wafer to the wafer holding head comprises moistening a back of the semiconductor wafer and attaching the back of the semiconductor wafer to the wafer holding head with suction. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein mounting the semiconductor wafer to the wafer holding head further comprises removing a processed semiconductor wafer from the wafer holding head prior to mounting the semiconductor wafer. 