A method for retrieving data (D, B, I) from machine tools, production equipment, or robots with at least one motion controller or drive controller (R). Image and/or video and/or audio data (B) relating to the mechanical movement in normal operation are displayed or processed in real-time, synchronized with the data available (I) in the motion controller or the drive controller (R). Furthermore, it is possible for the user to select data (D, B, I), compress them prior to transfer (DK1, DK2), use a web server (W) for transfer purposes, and save synchronized data (D, B, I).
Claims I claim: 1. A method for retrieval of data from machine tools, production equipment or robots with at least one motion controller or drive controller, the method comprising the steps of displaying an image and/or video and/or audio data (B) related to a mechanical movement in a normal operation in real-time (BD) or processed synchronized in real-time with data available (I) in the motion controller or the drive controller (R); and synchronizing the display of the data related to the mechanical movement with the data in the motion controller. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the data to be synchronized (D, B, I) can be selected by a user. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the image and/or video and/or audio data (B) is compressed prior to the transfer (DK1, DK2). 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein several synchronized data blocks (D, B, I) is temporarily in a memory (SP) of the motion controller or the drive controller (R) following synchronized display or processing. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the synchronized data (D, B, I) is stored for later use on at least one web server (W). 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein several synchronized data blocks are temporarily stored on at least one web server (W). 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein additional data (D) are recorded in the motion controller or drive controller (R) and are synchronized with the image and/or video and/or audio data (B) or an internal data (I). 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein an identification signal (KS) will start or stop the synchronization of data (D, B, I). 9. A system for retrieving data from machine tools, production equipment, or robots with at least one motion controller or drive controller via a transfer, processing or synchronization of data, comprising: image and/or video and/or audio data (B) related to the mechanical movement in a normal operation is displayed or processed, synchronized with the data available in motion controller or drive controller (I). 