A method and apparatus for detection of a particular material, such as photo-resist material, on a sample surface. A narrow beam of light is projected onto the sample surface and the fluoresced and/or reflected light intensity at a particular wavelength band is measured by a light detector. The light intensity is converted to a numerical value and transmitted electronically to a logic circuit which determines the proper disposition of the sample. The logic circuit controls a sample-handling robotic device which sequentially transfers samples to and from a stage for testing and subsequent disposition. The method is particularly useful for detecting photo-resist material on the surface of a semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining the presence of a material on a substrate, comprising: a stage for positioning a substrate; a first optical apparatus for forming a beam of light and directing the beam of light to a location on a surface of the substrate, the first optical apparatus including a filter cube comprising a plurality of dichroic mirrors and a plurality of selectable light paths; a second optical apparatus for collecting light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate and directing the light through a band pass filter; and a light intensity sensing apparatus for measuring the intensity of the light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a means for generating an electronic signal representative of the intensity of the light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a logic circuit for processing an electronic signal representative of the intensity of the light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus for moving the substrate to and from the stage. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an automated substrate handling apparatus and a plurality of off-stage sites, the automated substrate handling apparatus capable of selectively moving the substrate to any one of the plurality of off-stage sites. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stage is configured to position the substrate at a plurality of measurement sites. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stage is configured to position the substrate at a plurality of measurement sites and the apparatus further comprises an automated substrate handling apparatus and a computer capable of receiving an electronic signal representative of the intensity of the light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate, instructing the stage to position the substrate at one of said plurality of measurement sites, and instructing the automated substrate handling apparatus to move the substrate to and from the stage. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first optical apparatus comprises a band pass filter capable of restricting the beam of light to a predetermined wavelength band. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first optical apparatus comprises an excitation filter capable of restricting the beam of light to a predetermined wavelength that induces fluorescence in the material. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first optical apparatus comprises a band pass filter capable of restricting the beam of light to wavelengths which are substantially absorbed by the material and substantially reflected by the substrate. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first optical apparatus comprises a band pass filter capable of restricting the beam of light to wavelengths which are substantially reflected by the material and substantially absorbed by said substrate. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a high energy light source. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a high energy light source selected from a group consisting of a xenon lamp and a mercury lamp. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a silicon diode sensor capable of producing a light intensity measurement. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus includes a power meter capable of converting a light intensity measurement into a digital form. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a photo-multiplier tube. 17. An apparatus for determining the presence of a material on a substrate, comprising: a stage for positioning a substrate; a first optical apparatus for forming a beam of light and directing the beam of light to a location on a surface of the substrate, the first optical apparatus including a filter cube comprising a plurality of dichroic mirrors and a plurality of selectable light paths; a second optical apparatus for collecting light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate and directing the light through a band pass filter; a light intensity sensing apparatus for measuring the intensity of the light emanating from the location on the surface of the substrate; and a resist-stripping chamber enclosing at least said stage. 