Disclosed are methods for reliably detecting the presence of proteins, including proteins with various post-translational modifications (phosphorylation, glycosylation, methylation, acetylation, etc.) in a sample by the use of one or more capture agents that recognize and interact with recognition sequences uniquely characteristic of a protein or a set of proteins (Proteome Epitope Tags, or PETs) in the sample. Arrays comprising these capture agents or PETs are also provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for achieving high sensitivity detection and/or high accuracy quantitation of a target protein in a biological sample, the method comprising the steps of: (1) providing an addressable array of two or more different capture agents wherein each of which two or more capture agents is specific for binding naturally occurring peptide epitope tag (PET) within the target protein; (2) contacting the addressable array of two or more different capture agents with a solution of polypeptide analytes produced by denaturation and/or cleavage of the target protein in the test sample. such that the capture agents have access to the peptide epitope tags within the polypeptide analytes generated by the denaturation and/or cleavage of the target protein; (3) detecting a signal generated as a result of binding of a capture agent to a naturally occurring PET within a polypeptide analyte; and (4) averaging the signals generated in (3) from each of the capture agents specifically binding to a naturally occurring PET, if signals are present, thereby to quantitate the amount of the target protein in the sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of two or more different capture agent specifically binds a different PET within the target protein. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the different capture agents belong to a same category. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the category of capture agent is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a non-antibody polypeptide, a PNA (peptide nucleic acids), a scaffolded peptide, a peptidomimetic compound, a polynucleotide, a carbohydrate, an artificial polymer, a plastibody, a chimeric binding agent derived from low-affinity ligand, and a small organic molecule. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein at least two of the different capture agents belong to different categories of capture agent selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a non-antibody polypeptide. a PNA (peptide nucleic acids), a scaffolded peptide, a peptidomimetic compound, a polynucleotide, a carbohydrate, an artificial polymers, a plastibody, a chimeric binding agent derived from low-affinity ligand. and a small organic molecule. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a subset of the capture agents bind to the same PET, and wherein each of the capture agents of the subset belong. to a different category of capture agent selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a non-antibody polypeptide, a PNA (peptide nucleic acids), a scaffolded peptide, a peptidomimetic compound, a polynucleotide, a carbohydrate, an artificial polymer, a plastibody, a chimeric binding agent derived from low-affinity ligand. and a small organic molecule. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the target protein has two or more different forms within the biological sample. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the different forms include unprocessed/pro-form and processed/mature form. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the different forms include different alternative splicing forms. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the different forms include an unmodified and a posttranslationally modified form with respect to one or more post-translational modification(s). 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more post-translational modification(s) is selected from the group consisting of acetylation, amidation, deamidation, prenylation, formylation, glycosylation, hydroxylation, methylation, myristoylation, phosphorylation. ubiquitination, ribosylation and sulphation. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein a subset of the capture agents are specific for PET(s) only found in certain forms but not in other forms. 13. The method of claim 12. further comprising determining the percentage of one form of the target protein as compared to the total target protein, or ratio of a first form of the target protein to a second form of the target protein. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting other target proteins within the biological sample with capture agents specific for PETs of the other target proteins. 15. The method of claim 14. wherein two or more different capture agents are used for detecting and/or quantitating at least one of the other target proteins. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each capture agent, the method has a regression coefficient (R.sup.2) of 0.95 or greater. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the array has a recovery rate of at least 50 percent. 18. The method of claim 1. wherein the accuracy is 90%. 19. An array of capture agents for detecting and quantitating a target protein within a biological sample, the array comprising a plurality of capture agents, wherein each capture agent is immobilized on a distinct addressable location on a solid support, and wherein each of the capture agents. specifically binds a PET uniquely associated with a peptide fragment of the target protein that predictably results from a treatment of the biological sample. 20. A composition comprising a plurality of capture agents, wherein each of the capture agents recognizes and interacts with one PET within a target protein. 