The present invention provides for systems and methods that utilize automated and integratable workstations for identifying chemicals having useful activity. The present invention is also directed to chemical entities and information (e.g., chemical or biological activities of chemicals) generated or discovered by operation of workstations of the present invention. The present invention includes automated workstations that are programmably controlled to minimize processing times at each workstation and that can be integrated to minimize the processing time of the liquid samples from the start to finish of the process.
Claims We claim: 1. A database comprising chemical activity data for computational analysis of chemical structure and activity against targets, comprising data of the activity of discrete drug candidate compounds, said data stored on a computer readable storage media, and said data generated by using a method of screening drug candidate compounds for activity, said method comprising: storing a set of drug candidate compounds in addressable wells; programming a chemical storage and retrieval module containing said drug candidate compounds for the selection of a subset of said drug candidate compounds; removing said subset of said addressable chemical wells from sad chemical storage module with an automated robotic retriever; delivering said removed subset of addressable chemical wells to an automated transport pathway; delivering said removed subset of addressable chemical wells to an automated liquid handler; retrieving said programmed subset of drug candidate compounds with said liquid handler by retrieving compounds from less than all, of said removed subset of addressable chemical wells; screening said selected subset of drug candidate compounds for activity; and generating data related to the result of said screening. 2. The database of claim 1, said method additionally comprising returning said selected subset of chemical compounds to said addressable chemical storage and retrieval module via said automated transport pathway. 3. The database of claim 1, wherein said removing comprises retrieving said selected set of chemical compounds in a first order of selection, and wherein said step of delivering said selected subset of drug candidate compounds to said automated liquid handler comprises delivering said subset of drug candidate compounds in a second order of selection different from said first order of selection. 4. The database of claim 3, wherein said removing and delivering comprises retrieving and delivering multi-well plates containing said subset of chemical compounds. 5. The database of claim 4, said method additionally comprising stacking said multi-well plates prior to delivering said multi-well plates. 6. The database of claim 1, wherein said transport pathway comprises at least two parallel lanes; and wherein at least one of said lanes is configured to provide bidirectional transport of said chemical compounds. 7. A method of making a database of chemical activity data comprising: storing a set of drug candidate compounds in addressable wells; programming a chemical storage and retrieval module containing said drug candidate compounds for the selection of a subset of said drug candidate compounds; removing said subset of said addressable chemical wells from sad chemical storage module with an automated robotic retriever; delivering said removed subset of addressable chemical wells to an automated transport pathway; delivering said removed subset of addressable chemical wells to an automated liquid handler; retrieving said programmed subset of drug candidate compounds with said liquid handler by retrieving compounds from less than all, of said removed subset of addressable chemical wells; screening said selected subset of drug candidate compounds for activity; generating data related to the result of said screening; and storing said activity data collected by said reaction module on a computer readable storage medium. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said transport pathway comprises at least two parallel lanes; and wherein at least one of said lanes is configured to provide bidirectional transport of said chemical compounds. 