A modular vial autosampler has a storage area for vials containing samples to be analyzed and at least one modular sampling station. A vial transfer mechanism includes an arm having a gripper that lifts a sample vial from the storage section, and the arm moves it to a station for identification and then to a sampling station, and under central control activates the sampling station for obtaining a sample for analysis. The vial transfer mechanism gripper is movable in X, Y, and Z directions to capture and move a selected vial and includes an alignment guide for the vials. Potentiometers are used for providing signals indicating arm position and the control is provided with updated information for calibration of the potentiometers and also updated position information for the arm relative to a fixed home position is obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a vial autosampler having a plurality of vial holding stations and a robotic arm to carry a vial between the vial holding stations, a method of positioning the robotic arm relative to at least one of the vial holding stations comprising the steps of: providing a position reference feature disposed at a fixed location with respect to the autosampler; storing in memory a first nominal position for the at least one of the vial holding stations and a second nominal position for the position reference feature; measuring an actual position of the position reference feature; calculating a first difference between the second nominal position and the measured position of the position reference feature; calculating a corrected position of the at least one of the vial holding stations as a function of the first nominal position and the first difference; and positioning the robotic arm as a function of the corrected position. 2. The method of claim 1 including providing a voltage indicating the actual position of the position reference feature relative to a fixed location on the vial autosampler representing the second nominal position. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein measuring the actual position of the position reference feature is done with a potentiometer, and wherein calculating the corrected position is based on an output signal of the potentiometer. 4. The method of claim 2 including calculating a scale of the provided voltage by calibrating the voltage indication relative to two locations in a path of travel of the robotic arm to determine a voltage value for each unit of travel between the two locations. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the autosampler has removable and replaceable vial holding stations, and including the step of establishing the position of the removable vial holding stations when replaced on the autosampler by establishing distance from a reference edge at two locations and comparing differences in such distance to orient the replaced vial holding stations. 6. A method of calibrating movement of a robotic arm in a vial autosampler, the method comprising: a) moving the robotic arm along a first axis until a first known location is reached; b) obtaining an initial first sensor signal related to the first known location; c) moving the robotic arm along the first axis until a second known location is reached; d) obtaining a successive first sensor signal related to the second known location; e) computing a first axis scale related to a difference between the initial and successive first sensor signals; and f) storing data based upon the first axis scale, wherein said data is used to calibrate movement of the robotic arm. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first sensor is a potentiometer. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein movement of the robotic arm during step c is in a direction opposite that during step a. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the first known location corresponds to a position of a first location limit switch that indicates arrival of the robotic arm at the first known location. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the second known location corresponds to a position of a second limit switch that indicates arrival of the robotic arm at the second known location. 11. The method of claim 6, and further comprising: moving the robotic arm along a second axis orthogonal to the first axis until a third known location is reached; obtaining an initial second sensor signal related to the third known location; moving the robotic arm along the second axis until a fourth known location is reached; obtaining a successive second sensor signal related to the fourth known location; computing a second axis scale related to a difference between the initial and successive second sensor signals; and storing data based upon the second axis scale. 12. A method of calibrating movement of a robotic arm in a vial autosampler, the method comprising: providing stored location information of a calibration feature disposed in a fixed location relative to the autosampler; moving the robotic arm to the calibration feature; measuring an actual location of the calibration feature; and calculating a calibrated home position based upon a comparison of the stored location information and the measured actual location. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein measuring the actual location of the calibration feature includes: bringing the robotic arm into contact with the calibration feature; moving the robotic arm in a first direction while contacting the calibration feature until loss of contact is registered; bringing the robotic arm into contact with the calibration feature again; and moving the robotic arm in a second direction orthogonal to the first direction while in contact with the calibration feature until loss of contact is measured. 14. A method of calibrating movement of a robotic arm in a vial autosampler, the method comprising: positioning a calibration bar relative to at least two vial storage locations; bringing the robotic arm into contact with the calibration bar; monitoring contact between the bar and the robotic arm while the robotic arm is moved relative to the bar in order to detect loss of contact between the bar and the robotic arm; and calculating a calibration parameter based upon the movement of the robotic arm relative to the bar, and the detected loss of contact. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein positioning the bar relative to at least two vial storage locations includes coupling at least a pair of plugs on the bar with at least a pair of vial receptacles in the autosampler. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein monitoring contact between the bar and the robotic arm further includes: moving the robotic arm to a first position on the bar; moving the robotic arm along a first axis until a sensor signal registers loss of contact between the bar and the robotic arm at a second position; moving the robotic arm to a third position spaced from the first position along an axis orthogonal to the first axis; and moving the robotic arm along the first axis until a sensor signal registers loss of contact between the bar and the robotic arm at a fourth position. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the calibration parameter is relative skew between a tray containing the at least two vial storage locations and the robotic arm. 18. A method of calibrating motion of a robotic arm in a vial autosampler, the method comprising: measuring axis scaling factors in at least two orthogonal axes; determining a calibrated home point using the axis scaling factors and a calibration reference feature; measuring relative skew of a sample tray with respect to the vial autosampler; and compensating stored vial receptacle position information based upon the home point and the measured skew. 