A toy with developing skills, the toy including a fanciful figure having a capacity to perform an action, and action control circuitry operative to control the fanciful figure to perform the action at different levels of skill at different times.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer-controlled toy system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure comprising: at least one fanciful figure including a microphone, a speaker and an electrical power source; at least one computer; a bidirectional communication link interconnecting the fanciful figure and the at least one computer and enabling communication of speech from said microphone to said computer and from said at least one computer to said speaker; and translation software residing in the at least one computer and being operative to translate at least some of said speech in a first language into a second language, whereby a user speaking to said at least one fanciful figure in either of said first and second languages can receive a response in the other of said first and second languages. 2. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 1 and wherein said speaker provides a speech output in a special language which is at least one of said first and second languages. 3. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said special language is at least partly generated by said at least one computer. 4. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 3 wherein said special language is at least partly generated by modifying at least one known language according to at least one language modification rule. 5. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 4 and wherein said at least one computer is operative to receive said at least one language modification rule from a user. 6. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 4 and wherein said at least one computer is operative to provide said at least one language modification rule to a user. 7. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 3 wherein said special language is at least partly generated from a predefined set of phonemes. 8. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said at least one computer is operative to receive at least a portion of said special language from a user. 9. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said at least one fanciful figure is action induceable for producing an action. 10. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 9 wherein said action comprises a movement. 11. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 9 wherein said action comprises a sound. 12. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 9 wherein said action comprises a light emission. 13. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 9 wherein said speech output is identifiable with said action. 14. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 13 wherein said at least one computer maintains a memory comprising at least one said speech output identifiable with said action. 15. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 9 wherein said at least one computer is operative to induce said fanciful figure to produce said action. 16. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 9 wherein a user induces said fanciful figure to produce said action and wherein said at least one computer is operative to detect said action. 17. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 and further comprising at least one speech input apparatus and wherein said at least one computer is operative to receive a speech input via said at least one speech input apparatus. 18. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 13 wherein said speech input is identifiable with said action. 19. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 13 wherein said at least one computer maintains a memory comprising at least one said speech input identifiable with said action. 20. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 and wherein said at least one computer is additionally operative to translate between said special language and at least one other language wherein said other language comprises a language of common discourse. 21. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said at least one fanciful figure is displayable on a computer display. 22. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said speech output apparatus is assembled with said at least one computer. 23. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said fanciful figure is a toy in communication with said at least one computer. 24. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 23 wherein said at least one computer is assembled with said toy. 25. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 23 wherein said toy comprises at least one appendage that is actuable. 26. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 23 wherein said toy comprises at least one appendage that is articulatable. 27. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 23 wherein said speech output apparatus is assembled with said toy. 28. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said language is a previously unknown language. 29. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 17 wherein said at least one fanciful figure comprises a toy in communication with said at least one computer and said speech input apparatus is assembled with said toy. 30. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said at least one fanciful figure comprises a plurality of fanciful figures. 31. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 17 wherein said speech input apparatus is assembled with said at least one computer. 32. A system for interacting with a computer-controlled fanciful figure according to claim 2 wherein said special language is preassembled with said at least one computer. 