Racks having sample containers mounted therein are transported within an analytical system so that a robotic arm can remove the sample containers and deliver them to a desired location within the system. The sample handler has an in-feed and out-feed that advance sample tube racks using a walking beam mechanism. Sample tube racks are seated within the in-feed and are transported onto a cross-feed. The cross-feed comprises a movable track having a platform mounted thereto. The cross-feed moves the sample tube racks from a position behind the in-feed to a position behind the out-feed where the walking beam mechanism moves the tube racks out of the analytical instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. An instrument comprising a sample handler for transporting a plurality of racks, having at least one container positioned therein, within said sample handler and a robotic arm to individually transport said containers between said sample handler and said other modules, said sample handler comprising an infeed into which said racks are input, an outfeed to which said racks are output, and a cross-feed on which said racks are transferred between said infeed and said outfeed one at a time, wherein said infeed comprises a walking beam mechanism for moving the rack. 2. The instrument of claim 1 wherein said instrument is modular and said sample handler is a first module in said instrument. 3. The instrument of claim 1 wherein said cross-feed has a means to firmly hold at least one of said racks in a first position while said robotic arm may remove said containers from a first of said racks in said cross-feed. 4. The instrument of claim 1 wherein said outfeed comprises side walls having a plurality of detents to maintain said racks in fixed positions along said outfeed while said robotic arm returns said containers to said racks. 5. The instrument of claim 1 wherein said cross-feed comprises a track on which said racks sit, means to transport a first of said racks from a first position on said track adjacent said infeed to a second position on said track adjacent said outfeed, and a platform coupled to said transport means having means for pushing said first rack across said track from said first position to said second position. 6. The instrument of claim 5 wherein said pushing means comprise a pusher finger shaped so as not to interfere with the transfer of said racks from said infeed to said cross-feed but to engage an aperture in said first rack to push said first rack. 7. The instrument of claim 6 wherein said pusher finger is spring-loaded so as to disengage from said aperture on said rack when said platform returns from said second position to said first position. 8. The instrument of claim 6 wherein said pushing means further comprises a second pusher finger to work in conjunction with said first pusher finger to maintain said first rack orthogonal to said track to permit said robotic arm to remove said containers from said first rack. 9. The instrument of claim 8 wherein said cross-feed further comprises a rear wall that maintains said first rack orthogonal to said track. 10. The instrument of claim 9 further comprising a sensor to detect whether said first rack is skewed in said cross-feed. 11. The instrument of claim 10 wherein said sensor comprises an ultrasonic sensor mounted within an acoustic mirror mounted to said rear wall. 12. The instrument of claim 5 wherein said platform further comprises a mount for a laboratory automation adapter used to transport at least one of said containers transferred by said robotic arm between said instrument and an adjacent laboratory automation transport line, said mount maintaining said adapter mounted to said platform regardless of the direction in which said platform moves to form a bidirectional cross-feed. 13. The instrument of claim 12 further comprising said adapter and wherein said adapter has a rack portion into which said containers may be placed. 14. The instrument of claim 12 further comprising an electrical sensor on said platform to detect said adapter when said adapter is mounted to said platform. 15. The instrument of claim 1 further comprising a stat shuttle having a front area and a rear area and an adapter into which said containers may be inserted, said containers being removable by said robotic arm in said rear area. 