An automated method and apparatus is provided to mold, cure and package soft contact lenses. A conveyor system transports an array of molds through a plurality of automated work stations. The front curve mold halves are partially filled with a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture and assembled and clamped to displace any excess hydrogel from the mold cavity. The assembly is precured and then transported through a cure station using UV radiation to complete polymerization, The assemblies are then pried apart in an automated station, with any excess monomer adhering to the removed mold half. The newly molded lens is then hydrated and separated from the front curve mold half in a hydration station. Following hydration the array of lens is automatically deposited into a plurality of packages with a robotic transfer device having a plurality of figures which transfer the lenses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses from a hydrogel, said apparatus comprising; (a) a transport means for transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (b) a first automated station for receiving a plurality of first mold parts and depositing therein a predetermined amount of a hydrogel to be cured; (c) a second automated station for receiving said plurality of first mold parts and assembling each first mold part with a second mold part to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess hydrogel from said cavity; (d) a third automated station for curing said hydrogel in said cavity; (e) a fourth automated station for removing said second mold part from said first mold part and said molded contact lens, and assembling a plurality of said contact lenses and mold parts in an array for robotic handling; (f) a robotic transfer head, said head facilitating transfer of said plurality of lenses to a package load station, said robotic transfer head having a plurality of contact lens carriers arranged to correspond to said array, each of said carriers having a convex lens attachment surface to receive a contact lens, and a fluid means for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and said contact lens, said lens being retained thereon during transfer by surface tension; (g) at least one controller for controlling said automated stations and said robotic transfer head, said at least one controller positioning said robotic transfer head and initiating the introduction of said fluid by said fluid means to transfer said contact lenses to said packages. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 which further includes enclosure means for surrounding said first and second automated stations with an inert atmosphere. 3. A method of automatically molding contact lenses from a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture, said method comprising; (a) transporting a plurality of first and second mold parts for the production of soft contact lens blanks to and from a plurality of automated stations, said plurality arranged in an array; (b) depositing a predetermined amount of a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture in said first mold part, and then; (c) assembling each first mold part with a second mold part with the monomer or monomer mixture there between to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess monomer from said cavity and then; (d) polymerizing said monomer or monomer mixture in said cavity with radiant energy; and then (e) automatically demolding each of said contact lenses by removing said second mold part and any excess monomer from said first mold part and said molded contact lens; and then (f) automatically transferring said plurality of lenses with a robotic transfer head to a plurality of packages at a package load station, said robotic transfer head having a plurality of contact lens carriers, with each of said carriers having a convex lens attachment surface to receive a contact lens, said lens being retained thereon during transfer by surface tension; (g) controlling said method steps and said robotic transfer head with at least one controller, said controlling step positioning said robotic transfer head and initiating the introduction of said fluid by said fluid means to transfer said contact lenses to said packages. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 which further includes the step of transporting said mold parts between said automated stations in an inert atmosphere to prevent absorption of oxygen thereon. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3 which further includes the step of molding sets of said first and second mold parts at a temperature of at least 450 degrees F. within a cycle time of 3 to 12 seconds. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the step of transferring said molded sets from said molding step to said inert atmosphere occurs within 15 seconds of the completion of said molding step. 7. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said method further includes the step of clamping said mold parts together in said assembly step to firmly displace said excess hydrogel from said mold cavity. 8. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said method further includes the step of filling each package with a precise dose of buffered saline solution. 9. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said method further includes the step of heat sealing a plurality of said packages to a single foil laminate so that final lens equilibrium is accomplished after the lens has been packaged and sealed. 10. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said method further includes the step of automatically inspecting each lens by directing a light pulse through each lens to a pixel array to generate an electrical signal which is processed to determine if the lens is acceptable and to generate a signal if said lens is defective. 11. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 1 wherein said contact lenses are arranged in an array, and said contact lens carriers are arranged in a corresponding array to facilitate the transfer of contact lenses to said plurality of contact lens carriers. 12. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 11 wherein said packages at said package load station are also arranged in a corresponding array to facilitate the transfer of contact lenses to a plurality of packages at said package load station. 13. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 12 wherein said contact lenses are arranged in an array of concave carriers, and are wetted with a solution having a small amount of surfactant therein prior to transfer to said plurality of contact lens carriers. 14. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 13 wherein the surfactant wets the surface of the contact lens carrier to promote surface tension adhesion of the contact lenses to the contact lens carriers. 15. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a package dosing station to fill each of a plurality of packages at said package load station with a precise dose of buffered saline solution. 16. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 15 wherein said apparatus further includes a package sealing station to heat seal a plurality of said packages to a foil laminate so that final lens equilibrium is accomplished after the lens has been packaged and sealed. 17. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a molding station for injection molding fully degassed first and second mold parts for the production of soft contact lenses and a transport means for receiving said mold parts from said molding station and transporting said mold parts in a low oxygen environment to and from a plurality of automated stations. 18. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 17 wherein said molding station injection molds said first and second mold parts at a temperature of at least 450 degrees F. over a cycle of 3 to 12 seconds. 19. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 18 which further includes robotic means for transfer of said mold parts from said molding station to said transport means and said low oxygen environment within 15 seconds or less. 20. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second automated station further includes a first clamping means for clamping said mold parts together under vacuum to displace any excess hydrogel and to firmly seat and align the mold parts. 21. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 17 wherein said transport includes a plurality of pallets for receiving said mold parts, each pallet including a perimeter seal area to cooperate with a perimeter seal formed at said second automated station to enable assembly of said mold parts under vacuum. 22. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 21 wherein said transport means further includes separate pallets for said second mold parts, wherein said pallets having first mold parts are interleaved with pallets having second mold parts. 23. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 22 wherein said second automated station cycles between pallets, picking up second mold parts from a pallet in a first cycle, and depositing said second mold parts on said first mold parts in a second pallet during a second cycle to assemble said mold. 24. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 23 wherein said second automated stations further comprises: (i) a housing member for surrounding aligned first and second mold parts to thereby enable a vacuum to be drawn around said parts; and (ii) said second automated station having a reciprocating means for reciprocating said second mold parts along a reciprocating axis to clamp said second mold parts against said first mold part with a predetermined pressure while said vacuum remains drawn. 25. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 17 in which each of said mold parts also has a flange and a generally triangular tab situated in a plane normal to and extending from said flange, said mold parts having a thinness sufficient to transmit heat therethrough rapidly and rigidity effective to withstand prying forces applied to separate said mold parts. 26. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 25 wherein the surface of each mold part is essentially free of oxygen when assembled. 27. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 26 wherein said thermoplastic polymer is polystyrene. 28. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 1 wherein said fourth automated station is adapted for demolding a mold assembly having a first and second flange formed on each of said first and second mold parts, said station further including: (a) heating means for applying heat to said second mold part to form a temperature gradient between said second mold part and the contact lens; and, (b) pry means for demolding said lens, said pry means inserted between said flanges of said first and said second mold parts of said mold assembly, said pry means including a first and second set of pry fingers for biasing said second mold part upwardly at a predetermined force with respect to said first mold part to remove said second mold part therefrom. 29. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 28 wherein said pry means lifts said back mold part from said front mold part at a predetermined time after application of said heat. 30. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 29 wherein said pry means includes means for displacing said first set of pry fingers in a substantially vertical direction while said second set of pry fingers anchors said first mold parts, thereby separating said mold parts. 31. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 30 wherein said first and second set of pry fingers are extensible from a first retracted position to a second extended position between said flanges of said first and said second mold parts of said mold assembly. 32. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses as claimed in claim 31 wherein said pry means are inserted between said first and second flanges of said first and second mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly while said heat is applied to each second mold part by a heating means. 