The present invention provides a method and apparatus for dispensing a small volume of a selected liquid, such as a biological sample or reagent, onto a substrate. The device includes a tube adapted to contain the liquid. An elongate fiber is disposed within the tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions. Upon shifting or oscillating the fiber between its raised and lowered positions, a liquid spot can be formed at a selected position on the substrate. The device is readily adaptable for the production of micro-arrays having a great number of individual spots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for producing an array of liquid-reagent spots on a substrate, comprising: a manifold having a plurality of capillary channels, each adapted to hold a selected liquid, said channels having opposite upper-end and lower-end openings, and inner diameters which decrease on progressing from the upper- to the lower-end openings, with said lower openings forming said array, a support movable between raised and lowered positions with respect to said manifold, and a plurality of fibers carried on said support for movement therewith, each fiber being adapted to move longitudinally within an associated channel, as the support is moved between its raised and lowered positions, with movement of the fibers from their raised to lowered positions being effective to deposit a selected volume of liquid from each channel in the manifold. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spacing between adjacent upper-end openings is greater than that between adjacent lower-end openings. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, which further includes shifting means operatively connected to the support for shifting the same between its raised and lowered positions. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the channels at their lower ends is less than about 200 .mu.m, and from about 10 to about 100 .mu.m larger than that of the associated fiber. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the fibers are adapted to contact such a substrate, with the support in its lowered position, and variations in the length of fiber extending between its associated channel end and its point of contact on the substrate is accommodated by fiber flexing. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each channel has a substantially uniform diameter extending along a lower end region that terminates at the channel's lower end, the diameter of each channel end region is substantially the same as that of the associated fiber, and the fiber's end, with such in its raised position, is disposed above the channel end region, such that shifting of the fiber from its raised to its lowered position is effective to expel from the channel the volume of liquid contained in said channel end region. 