A method of controlling a dispensing system, having a robot that moves along a motion segment and applies a material to a workpiece, automatically determines a backup distance for the robot after an error has occurred during the dispensing of a first portion of the material. The backup distance is based on an operational speed of the robot. The robot is relocated to a backup position based on this backup distance to ensure that the robot reaches the operational speed at least by a time that the robot reaches a re-application position. The re-application position is at or near where the application of the first portion of the material ended. Therefore, gaps, overlaps, and puddles in the material on the workpiece are prevented.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a dispensing system having a robot for application of a material to a workpiece wherein the dispensing system prevents any gaps or overlaps in the material on the workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: moving the robot along a motion segment at an operational speed between a first position and a second position; applying a first portion of the material to the workpiece as the robot moves along the motion segment; discontinuing the application of the first portion of the material in response to an error that occurs during the application of the first portion; establishing a re-application position for the material along the motion segment in response to the error that occurs during the application of the first portion, wherein the re-application position indicates where the robot begins applying a second portion of the material; determining a backup distance indicating where the robot is relocated relative to the re-application position; relocating the robot to a backup position based on the determined backup distance; said method characterized by automatically determining the backup distance based on the operational speed of the robot to ensure that the robot reaches the operational speed at least by a time that the robot reaches the re-application position to prevent any gaps or overlaps in the material on the workpiece. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of instructing the robot to stop movement in response to the error, wherein the instruction causes the robot to decelerate from the operational speed at or near the re-application position until the robot stops movement at a rest position. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 further including the step of determining a deceleration distance of the robot representing a distance along the motion segment between the re-application position and the rest position of the robot. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3 further including the step of determining an acceleration distance of the robot representing a distance along the motion segment between the backup position of the robot and the re-application position of the robot. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the step of automatically determining the backup distance based on the operational speed of the robot is further defined as determining the backup distance to be at least a sum of the deceleration distance and the acceleration distance to ensure that the robot reaches the operational speed to prevent any gaps or overlaps in the material on the workpiece. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein the step of relocating the robot to the backup position is further defined as relocating the robot to the backup position based on the sum of the deceleration distance and the acceleration distance. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of moving the robot from the backup position toward the re-application position along the motion segment. 8. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of moving the robot from the backup position toward the re-application position along the motion segment is further defined as accelerating the robot from the backup position toward the reapplication position such that the robot achieves the operational speed prior to reaching the re-application position. 9. A method as set forth in claim 7 further including the step of applying the second portion of the material to the workpiece at the re-application position after the robot reaches the operational speed. 10. A method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the step of applying the second portion of the material to the workpiece at the re-application position is further defined as opening a material supply valve of the robot at the re-application position after the robot reaches the operational speed to dispense the material from the robot. 11. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of detecting the error that occurs during the application of the first portion of the material as the robot moves along the motion segment. 12. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of discontinuing the application of the first portion of the material to the workpiece in response to the error is further defined as closing a material supply valve of the robot to prevent the material from being dispensed from the robot in response to the error that occurs during application of the first portion. 13. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of interpolating a plurality of intermediate positions for the robot between the first position and the second position for moving the robot from successive intermediate positions along the motion segment. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 further including the step of determining a segment fraction value defined as a percentage of the motion segment extending between the first position and the second position. 15. A method as set forth in claim 14 wherein the step of determining the segment fraction value is further defined as determining the segment fraction value at each interpolated intermediate position for the robot. 16. A method as set forth in claim 14 further including the step of establishing a tracking position for the robot along the motion segment in response to the error that occurs during the application of the first portion, wherein the tracking position is an interpolated intermediate position that is interpolated after the time the error occurs. 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 wherein the step of establishing the tracking position for the robot along the motion segment is further defined as recording the determined segment fraction value of the tracking position in response to the error that occurs during the application of the first portion. 18. A method as set forth in claim 17 further including the step of moving the robot from the backup position toward the re-application position along the motion segment. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18 further including the step of monitoring the tracking position as the robot moves from the backup position toward the reapplication position to instruct the robot to begin application of the second portion of the material to the workpiece at the re-application position. 20. A method as set forth in claim 19 wherein the step of monitoring the tracking position is further defined as monitoring the recorded segment fraction value of the tracking position as the robot moves from the backup position toward the reapplication position. 21. A method of controlling a dispensing system having a robot for application of a material to a workpiece wherein the dispensing system prevents any gaps or overlaps in the material on the workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: moving the robot along a motion segment at an operational speed between a first position and a second position; applying a first portion of the material to the workpiece as the robot moves along the motion segment; discontinuing the application of the first portion of the material in response to an error that occurs during the application of the first portion; establishing a re-application position for the material along the motion segment in response to the error that occurs during the application of the first portion, wherein the re-application position indicates where the robot begins applying a second portion of the material; establishing a tracking position for the robot along the motion segment in response to the error that occurs during the application of the first portion, wherein the tracking position relates to the re-application position; automatically determining a backup distance indicating where the robot is relocated relative to the re-application position; relocating the robot to a backup position based on the determined backup distance; moving the robot from the backup position toward the re-application position; said method characterized by monitoring the tracking position as the robot moves from the backup position toward the reapplication position to instruct the robot to begin application of the second portion of the material to the workpiece at the re-application position to prevent any gaps or overlaps in the material on the workpiece. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including the step of interpolating a plurality of intermediate positions for the robot between the first position and the second position. 23. A method as set forth in claim 22 further including the step of determining a segment fraction value defined as a percentage of the motion segment extending between the first position and the second position, wherein the segment fraction value relates to the re-application position. 24. A method as set forth in claim 23 wherein the step of determining the segment fraction value is further defined as determining the segment fraction value at each interpolated intermediate position for the robot, wherein the segment fraction value is defined as the percentage of the motion segment extending between the first position and the second position. 25. A method as set forth in claim 23 wherein the step of establishing the tracking position is further defined as recording the determined segment fraction value of the tracking position, wherein the tracking position is an interpolated intermediate position that is interpolated after the error occurs. 26. A method as set forth in claim 25 wherein the step of monitoring the tracking position is further defined as monitoring the recorded segment fraction value of the tracking position as the robot moves from the backup position toward the reapplication position. 27. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including the step of applying the second portion of the material to the workpiece at the re-application position and after the robot reaches the operational speed as the robot moves from the backup position toward the re-application position. 28. A method as set forth in claim 27 wherein the step of applying the second portion of the material to the workpiece at the re-application position is further defined as opening a material supply valve of the robot at the re-application position and after the robot reaches the operational speed to dispense the material from the robot. 29. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including the step of detecting the error that occurs during the application of the first portion of the material as the robot moves along the motion segment. 30. A method as set forth in claim 21 wherein the step of discontinuing the application of the first portion of the material to the workpiece in response to the error is further defined as closing a material supply valve of the robot to prevent the material from being dispensed from the robot in response to the error that occurs during application of the first portion. 31. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including the step of instructing the robot to stop movement in response to the error, wherein the instruction causes the robot to decelerate from the operational speed at or near the re-application position until the robot stops movement at a rest position. 32. A method as set forth in claim 31 further including the step of determining a deceleration distance of the robot representing a distance along the motion segment between the re-application position and the rest position of the robot. 33. A method as set forth in claim 32 further including the step of determining an acceleration distance of the robot representing a distance along the motion segment between the backup position of the robot and the re-application position of the robot. 34. A method as set forth in claim 33 wherein the step of automatically determining a backup distance to establish where to relocate the robot in relation to the re-application position is further defined as determining the backup distance to be at least a sum of the deceleration distance and the acceleration distance to ensure that the robot reaches the operational speed to prevent any gaps or overlaps in the material on the workpiece. 35. A method as set forth in claim 34 wherein the step of relocating the robot to the backup position is further defined as relocating the robot to the backup position based on the sum of the deceleration distance and the acceleration distance. 36. An intelligent error-recovery method for controlling a system having a robot to ensure that an operational parameter is achieved after an error occurs in the system, said method comprising the steps of: moving the robot along an operating path between a first position and a second position; performing an operation with the robot as the robot moves, wherein the operation that is performed requires the operational parameter to ensure that the operation is completed; discontinuing the operation performed with the robot in response to the error; establishing a transitional position when the error occurs, wherein the transitional position indicates a location of the robot along the operating path when the error occurs; relocating the robot to a restart position after the error occurs; moving the robot from the restart position toward the second position; said method characterized by verifying that the operational parameter is achieved at least by a time the transitional position is reached by the robot as the robot moves from the restart position toward the second position to ensure that the operation is completed by the robot. 37. A method as set forth in claim 36 wherein the step of verifying that the operational parameter is achieved is further defined as verifying that an operational speed of the robot is achieved at least by the time the transitional position is reached as the robot moves from the restart position toward the second position. 38. A method as set forth in claim 36 further including the step of detecting the error occurring in the system as the robot performs the operation. 39. A method as set forth in claim 38 wherein the step of detecting the error occurring in the system is further defined as detecting the error occurring in the system with a sensor as the robot performs the operation. 40. A method as set forth in claim 36 further including the step of stopping movement of the robot prior to relocating the robot to the restart position. 41. A method as set forth in claim 36 further including the step of interpolating a plurality of intermediate positions for the robot between the first position and the second position for moving the robot from successive intermediate positions along the operating path. 42. A method as set forth in claim 41 further including the step of determining a segment fraction value defined as a percentage of the operating path extending between the first position and the second position. 43. A method as set forth in claim 42 wherein the step of determining the segment fraction value is further defined as determining the segment fraction value of the transitional position. 44. A method as set forth in claim 42 wherein the step of establishing the transitional position is further defined as recording the determined segment fraction value of the transitional position. 45. A method as set forth in claim 44 further including the step of monitoring the recorded segment fraction value of the transitional position as the robot moves from the restart position toward the second position to verify that the operational parameter is achieved at least by the time the transitional position is reached by the robot. 