A system for performing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery on the beating heart senses the movement of the surgical area of the heart to be worked on and moves a support with a controlled motion follows the motion of the surgical area on the heart surface in real time. To provide a steady image of the workspace a vision system can be attached to the support. This approach can be used for open-heart surgery as well as other less invasive procedures like minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) or thoracoscopic surgery.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for performing surgery comprising sensing the movement of a selected point s at or adjacent to a surgical site in a plurality of different directions and controlling the movement of a defined set point p having a location fixed relative to a platform said platform having at least three degrees of freedom of movement, by controlling movement of said platform in said at least three degrees of freedom in accordance with said sensed movement so as to maintain a set displacement between said selected point s and said set point p substantially constant. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said set displacement between said selected point s and said set point p is selectively defined. 3. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said selectively defining comprises controlling by a voice control. 4. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said selectively defining comprises controlling by a joystick control. 5. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein, said selectively defining comprises controlling a foot pedal. 6. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said method further comprises selecting said set point p, selecting said selected point s and selecting the desired position of said set point p relative to said selected point and then commencing said controlling the movement of said set point p. 7. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said surgical site is on a heart and wherein said controlling comprises determining trajectory of point s based on previously sensed historical movement of point s and rhythm of said point s and wherein said controlling controls said movement of said platform and thereby movement of said point p based on said historical movement of point s and correcting said movement of point p based on current sensed movement of point s. 8. A method as defined in claim 2 wherein said surgical site is on a heart and wherein said controlling comprises determining trajectory of point s based on previously sensed historical movement of point s and rhythm of said point s and wherein said controlling controls said movement of said platform and thereby movement of said point p based on said historical movement of point s and correcting said movement of point p based on current sensed movement of point s. 9. A method as defined in claim 6 wherein said surgical site is on a heart and wherein said controlling comprises determining trajectory of point s based on previously sensed historical movement of point s and rhythm of said point s and wherein said controlling controls said movement of said platform and thereby movement of said point p based on said historical movement of point s and correcting said movement of point p based on current sensed movement of point s. 10. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said surgical site is on a heart and wherein said controlling comprises means for determining the period T of the motion of said surgical site, means for computing a predictive part of the control signal based on historical movement of point s, and a platform controller generating a control signal comprising said predictive part delayed by approximately T seconds and a feedback part dependent on current sensed movement of point s. 11. An apparatus for assisting a surgeon in performing surgery comprising a sensor for sensing the movement in a plurality of directions of a selected point s at or adjacent to a surgical site, a computer, means for providing said sensed movement to said computer, a surgical platform, a set point p fixed in position relative to said platform, means for mounting said platform for movement permitting at least three degrees of freedom of movement, said computer controlling movement of said platform and thereby set point p in said movement along said three degrees freedom in accordance with said sensed movement of said selected point s to maintain a set displacement between said set point s and said selected point p substantially constant. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 11 further comprising means to selectively define said set displacement between said selected point s and said set point p. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein said means to selectively define comprises a voice control. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein said means to selectively define comprises a joystick control. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein, said means to selectively define comprises a foot pedal control. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 11 wherein said surgical site is on a heart and wherein said computer is programmed to determine rhythm and trajectory of point s based on previously sensed historical movement of point s and to control movement of point p based on said historical movement of point s and correcting said movement of point p based on current sensed movement of point s. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein said surgical site is on a heart and wherein said computer is programmed to determine rhythm and trajectory of point s based on previously sensed historical movement of point s and to control movement of point p based on said historical movement of point s and correcting said movement of point p based on current sensed movement of point s. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 further comprising camera system mounted in fixed relationship with said platform to provide a stabilized view of said surgical site. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 further comprising camera system mounted in fixed relationship with said platform to provide a stabilized view of said surgical 