A flexible sheet used in manufacture of microelectronic components is held on a frame formed from a rigid material so that the frame maintains the sheet under tension during processing and thereby stabilizes the dimensions of the sheet. The frame may be formed from a rigid, light-transmissive material such as a glass, and the bond between the frame and sheet may be made or released by light transmitted through the frame. Preferred features of the framed sheet minimize entrapment of processing liquids such as etch solutions, thereby minimizing carryover of processing solutions between steps. The frame may have contact openings which permit engagement of a metallic layer on the sheet by an electrode carrying electroplating or etching current without disturbing the main portion of the sheet where features are to be formed or treated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a flexible sheet comprising the steps of: (a) providing a frame having an aperture and a light-transmissive portion extending adjacent the aperture; (b) temporarily holding the flexible sheet taut so that the sheet extends across the aperture and overlies the light-transmissive portion of the frame; (c) providing an adhesive between the sheet and the light transmissive portion of the frame so that the adhesive contacts the frame and the sheet; and (d) during said temporary holding step, bonding the sheet to the frame so that the frame holds the sheet taut by directing light in a curing wavelength band through the light-transmissive portion of the frame to cure the adhesive. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the step of performing at least one operation on said sheet while said sheet is bonded to the frame. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said curing wavelength band is in the ultraviolet wavelength band. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said bonding step is performed while said sheet and said frame are at an elevated temperature. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein said frame has a coefficient of thermal expansion different than the coefficient of thermal expansion of said sheet. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said bonding step includes urging said frame and said sheet towards one another with a compressive force so that a portion of said adhesive is squeezed to one or more edges of said frame and forms fillets at such edges. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, further comprising the step of controlling said compressive force. 8. A method of processing a framed sheet for forming microelectronic components comprising the steps of: (a) providing a framed sheet including (i) a frame having an aperture and a light-transmissive portion, and (ii) a flexible sheet extending across the aperture and bonded to the light transmissive portion of the frame; (b) performing at least one operation on features of said flexible sheet which will be included in the microelectronic component; and (c) releasing the bond between said sheet and said frame after performing said at least one operation by directing light in a degradation wavelength band through the transmissive portion of the frame to the bond. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, further comprising the step of reusing the frame after said releasing step by uniting the frame with a new flexible sheet to form a further framed sheet. 