A method for re-registration between a robotic coordinate system and an image data set, said method comprising: providing an image data set that has been registered within a robotic coordinate system based upon an initial bone position within the robotic coordinate system; locating at least three conserved points fixed relative to the initial bone position prior to any detectable change in bone position from the initial bone position; relocating the same three conserved point after bone motion may have occurred to determine the locational change in the three conserved points; and re-register the image data set within the robotic coordinate system based on the locational changes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for re-registration between a robotic coordinate system and an image data set, said method comprising: provide an image data set that has been registered within a robotic coordinate system based upon an initial bone position within the robotic coordinate system; locate at least three conserved points fixed relative to the initial bone position prior to any detectable change in bone position from the initial bone position wherein a first conserved point is defined by a first fiducial marker and second and third conserved points are defined by a second fiducial marker; relocate the first, second and third conserved points after bone motion may have occurred to determine the locational change in any of the first, second and third conserved points; and re-register the image data set within the robotic coordinate system based on the locational changes. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein at least one of the first or second fiducial markers is implanted after the image data set has been created. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first or second fiducial markers is attached intraoperatively to the bone. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein locating the three conserved points is accomplished by contacting a distal end of a passive mechanical digitizing arm against each of the three conserved points. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein locating the three conserved points is accomplished by contacting a distal end of a surgical robotic arm against each of the three conserved points. 