A substrate handling system with integrated door removal assembly for an environmentally controlled substrate processing chamber is provided. The system includes a robot positioned within the chamber. A drive mechanism is connected to the robot. A door interface mechanism is attached to the drive mechanism and includes a door key and a door key control assembly. The drive mechanism provides mechanical control of the door key control assembly such that that door key is manipulated to couple a substrate carrier door to a port door. The coupled doors are storable within the chamber or on the robot. The drive mechanism may also include a substrate end effector, thereby allowing the robot to transport substrates within the chamber. The robot is movable within the chamber to multiple processing stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate carrier door removal assembly positioned on a robot, comprising: a door interface mechanism including a door key control assembly; and a drive mechanism connected to the door interface mechanism and operative to provide mechanical control of said door key control assembly to manipulate a door key to release a substrate carrier door coupled to a port door forming a door assembly from a substrate carrier accessible through a wall and transport the door assembly to a position on the wall selected from above the substrate carrier opening, beside the substrate carrier opening, and below the substrate carrier opening. 2. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a robot attached to the drive mechanism. 3. The assembly of claim 2, further comprising a robot transport mechanism attached to the robot to sequentially position the robot at a plurality of substrate carrier doors. 4. The assembly of claim 2, further comprising a vacuum link between the robot and the drive mechanism and an electrical connection between the robot and the drive mechanism. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the door key control assembly includes a single belt transmission system to control the door key. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the door key control assembly includes a dual belt transmission system to control the door key. 7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the door key control assembly includes a rack and pinion transmission system to control the door key. 8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the door key control assembly includes a rack transmission system to control the door key. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the door key control assembly is operative to rotate the door assembly 180.degree. after releasing it and before transporting it. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the door interface mechanism is operative to lift the door assembly. 11. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising a substrate end effector assembly attached to the drive mechanism. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the end effector assembly comprises multiple end effectors. 13. The assembly of claim 12, wherein the multiple end effectors are vertically aligned. 14. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the end effector assembly comprises two end effectors oriented at 180. 15. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the end effector assembly is rotatable about a vertical axis. 16. The substrate carrier door removal assembly of claim 2 wherein the storage position includes a frame to hold the door assembly. 17. The substrate carrier door removal assembly of claim 2 further including storing the door assembly in a frame affixed to a pedestal for the robot. 18. The substrate carrier door removal assembly of claim 2 wherein the door interface mechanism further includes an alignment rod. 19. A substrate processing system, comprising: a substrate processing chamber having an opening in a wall therein for receiving a substrate carrier, a port door operative to removably seal the opening, and a receptacle for receiving a door assembly that has been removed from the opening, the door assembly comprising a substrate carrier door coupled to the port door,; a robot positioned within the substrate processing chamber; a drive mechanism connected to the robot; and a door interface mechanism attached to the drive mechanism, the door interface mechanism including a door key control assembly, the drive mechanism providing mechanical control of the door key control assembly operative to manipulate the door key to release the door assembly, the receptacle mounted on the wall in a position selected from above the substrate carrier, beside the substrate carrier and below the substrate carrier. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the receptacle is selected from the group of a ledge, a frame, and a bar. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the door interface mechanism is operative to retain the released door assembly thereon. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein the receptacle further includes a door parking assembly. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the door parking assembly comprises a lifting and lowering mechanism operative to lower the door assembly into a storage area and lift the door assembly from the storage area. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the lifting and lowering mechanism includes: a door lifter plate vertically movable in the storage area; a press arm plate vertically movable in the storage area adjacent the door lifter plate; and a lever arm pivotally connected to the door lifter plate and the press arm plate to provide lifting movement of the door lifter plate upon lowering movement of the press arm plate. 25. The system of claim 19, wherein the port door further comprises a coupling mechanism operative to latch the port door to the opening. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein: the opening includes a bezel therein including a latch receiving housing; and the port door includes a horizontally movable latching tab configured to fit within the latch receiving housing on the bezel, a vertically movable interface plate mounted to the port door to receive the door interface mechanism, and a vertical-to-horizontal mechanism operative to convert vertical motion of the interface plate to horizontal motion of the latching tab. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the vertical-to-horizontal mechanism is further operative to manipulate the door key. 28. The system of claim 19, wherein the port door includes a vertically movable hook extending into the substrate processing chamber, the hook coupled to a mechanism to convert vertical motion of the hook to rotary motion to turn the door key. 29. The system of claim 19, wherein the substrate processing chamber further includes track members extending vertically below the opening, the door assembly configured to run along the track members to an area below the opening. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the port door further includes horizontally extendible members configured to run along the track members. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the door interface mechanism is operative to extend the horizontally extendible members. 32. The system of claim 19, further comprising an air bladder gasket provided around the circumference of the opening and an air bladder inflatable to seal the port door within the opening. 33. The system of claim 19, wherein the port door is pivotally mounted to the wall of the substrate processing chamber. 34. The system of claim 19, wherein the port door includes a ramped surface and the door interface mechanism includes a roller assembly operative to receive the ramped surface of the port door coupled to the substrate carrier door between a wall of the substrate processing chamber and the roller assembly. 35. The system of claim 19, wherein the drive mechanism includes a substrate end effector. 36. The system of claim 19, further comprising a robot transport mechanism attached to the robot to sequentially position the robot at a plurality of substrate carrier doors. 37. The system of claim 19, wherein the processing chamber is environmentally controlled. 38. The substrate processing system of claims 19 further comprising a receptacle mounted on a pedestal of the robot. 39. A method of processing a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: removing a substrate carrier door and a port door coupled together as a door assembly from a substrate carrier accessible through a wall with a substrate carrier door removal assembly positioned on a robot; operating the robot to store the door assembly on the wall adjacent to the substrate carrier; and manipulating the robot to transport a substrate positioned within the substrate carrier to a substrate processing or load station. 40. The method of claim 39, further comprising the steps of: positioning the robot at a second substrate carrier; removing a second substrate carrier door and a second port door coupled together as a second door assembly from a second substrate carrier accessible through the wall with said substrate carrier door removal assembly; operating the robot to store the second door assembly on the wall adjacent to the second substrate carrier; and manipulating the robot to transport a second substrate positioned within the second substrate carrier to a substrate processing or load station. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein the removing step includes the step of removing the door assembly from the substrate carrier with a substrate carrier door removal assembly including a door interface mechanism connected to a drive mechanism, and wherein the operating step includes the step of releasing the door interface mechanism from the drive mechanism such that the door assembly is stored with the door interface mechanism. 42. The method of claim 39, wherein the removing step includes the step of removing the door assembly from the substrate carrier with a substrate carrier door removal assembly including a door interface mechanism connected to a drive mechanism, and wherein the operating step includes the step of releasing the door interface mechanism from the door assembly to store the door assembly. 43. The method of claim 39, wherein the operating step includes the step of operating the robot to store the door assembly in a frame or on a ledge. 44. The method of claim 39, wherein the operating step includes the step of carrying the door assembly on the substrate carrier door removal assembly during transport of a substrate. 