A method of generating a robotic process plan for performing a process on a work structure includes a step of receiving input identifying a template corresponding to a plurality of geometric features of the work structure, each geometric feature associated with one or more robotic process elements. The method further includes a step of receiving input associating work structure data with the identified template. The method also includes a step of generating the robotic process plan based on the associated work structure data and the robotic process elements associate with the template.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of generating a robotic process plan for performing a process on a work structure, the robotic process plan for use in a robotic system that generates robotic kinematics from the robotic process plan, the method comprising: a) receiving input identifying a template corresponding to a plurality of geometric features of the work structure, each geometric feature associated with one or more robotic process elements; b) receiving input associating work structure data with the identified template, c) generating the robotic process plan based on the associated work structure data and the robotic process elements associate with the template. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic process plan includes a sequence based on sequence data corresponding to the identified template, the sequence data relating to at least two robotic process elements. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein step b) further includes receiving input comprising position and orientation information relating to the work piece. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein step a) further comprises receiving input identifying the template corresponding to the plurality of geometric features such that each geometric feature is associated with one robotic process element. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein step a) further comprises receiving input identifying the template corresponding to the plurality of geometric features such that at least one geometric feature is associated with a plurality of robotic process elements. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein step a) further comprises receiving input identifying the template by selecting the template from a plurality of templates. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein step a) further comprises receiving input identifying the template by selecting the template from a plurality of templates, and wherein the plurality of templates comprising one or more feature templates, each feature template comprising one or more robotic process elements. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein at least one of the one or more feature templates is shared by at least two templates of the plurality of templates. 9. The method of claim 7 where at least one of the one or more robotic process elements is shared by at least two feature templates of the one or more feature templates. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of d) exporting the robotic process plan to any of a plurality of kinematics generating systems. 11. A system for generating a robotic process plan for performing a process on a work structure, the robotic process plan for use in a robotic system that generates robotic kinematics from the robotic process plan, the system comprising: a) a user interface operable to receive input identifying a template corresponding to a plurality of geometric features of the work structure, each geometric feature associated with one or more robotic process elements; b) a processor operable to receive associated work structure data, the associated work structure data comprising work structure data that is associated with the identified template; and generate the robotic process plan based on the associated work structure data and the robotic process elements associate with the template. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the robotic process plan includes a sequence based on sequence data corresponding to the identified template, the sequence data relating to at least two robotic process elements. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein the processor is further operable to receive associated work piece data comprising position and orientation information relating to the work piece. 14. The system of claim 11 further comprising a storage device operably coupled to the user interface, the storage device including a template database that comprises a plurality of templates. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein each of the plurality of templates of the template database further comprises one or more feature templates, each feature template comprising one or more robotic process elements. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein at least one of the one or more feature templates is shared by at least two templates of the plurality of templates. 17. The system of claim 15 wherein at least one of the one or more robotic process elements is shared by at least two feature templates of the one or more feature templates. 18. The system of claim 11 further comprising a means for exporting the robotic process plan to any of a plurality of kinematics generation systems. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said means for exporting includes a network connection. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein said means for exporting includes a portable storage medium. 21. The system of claim 11 wherein the input device is further operable to receive template definition input, said template definition input including data defining a second plurality of geometric features of the work structure, each geometric feature associated with one or more robotic process elements. 