A compliant wafer comb assembly for use in transferring semiconductor wafers between wafer cassettes, wafer carriers, or other wafer holding devices. The compliant wafer comb includes a plurality of slots in which wafer(s) can be held while being transported. The slots are parallel to each other and downward sloping from one end of the comb to the other. The sloped arrangement causes a single wafer at a time to become engaged with the comb when a batch of wafers is transferred from a cassette or wafer holding device to the comb, allowing the compliant features of the comb to compensate for the misalignment of each wafer individually. The comb is coupled to a static base structure by a set of independent column springs which permit motion of the comb slots in any direction necessary to compensate for a wafer's misalignment. This permits transfer of a misaligned wafer or wafers from a cassette or other carrier to the comb without damaging the wafer(s). The present invention is also directed to a wafer handling system which includes the compliant comb and sensor(s) for monitoring when a wafer is severely enough misaligned that transfer to the comb would damage the wafer. In such a situation, a feedback signal generated by the sensor to an attached controller is used to alter the position of a robotic arm or other mechanism used to align the comb with respect to the wafers, or to halt the motion of the robot.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for transporting semiconductor wafers, comprising: a wafer comb having a first indentation proportioned for holding a first semiconductor wafer, a second indentation proportioned for holding a second semiconductor wafer, and a third indentation proportioned for holding a third semiconductor wafer, each indentation having a bottom, wherein the bottom of the second indentation is offset from the bottom of the first indentation, and the bottom of the third indentation is offset from the bottoms of the first and second indentations, the first, second and third indentations arranged for simultaneously supporting wafers in an upright position in each of the first, second and third indentations at different levels; and a plate resiliently coupled to the wafer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second indentations are V-shaped. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wafer comb and plate are coupled by a suspension system which includes a plurality of springs, each spring being connected at a first end to the wafer comb and at a second end to the plate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a sensor which outputs a control signal when a motion of the wafer comb relative to the plate exceeds a predetermined amount. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the wafer comb includes a plurality of indentations in a linear arrangement, the indentations formed to progressively increasing depths from one end of the linear arrangement to the other end of the linear arrangement. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the wafer comb includes a plurality of indentations in a linear arrangement, the indentations formed to progressively increasing depths from one end of the linear arrangement to the other end of the linear arrangement. 7. A wafer handling system, comprising: a compliant wafer comb including a wafer comb having a first indentation proportioned for holding a first semiconductor wafer, a second indentation proportioned for holding a second semiconductor wafer, and a third indentation proportioned for holding a third semiconductor wafer, each indentation having a bottom, wherein the bottom of the second indentation is offset from the bottom of the first indentation and the bottom of the first indentation is offset from the bottoms of the first and second indentations, the first, second and third indentations arranged for simultaneously supporting wafers in an upright position in each of the indentations at different levels, and a plate resiliently coupled to the wafer comb a sensor which outputs a sensor control signal when a motion of the wafer comb relative to the plate exceeds a predetermined amount; a robotic member on which the compliant comb is mounted; and a controller having the sensor control signal as an input and which responds to the sensor control signal by outputting a control signal for the robotic member. 8. The wafer handling system of claim 7, wherein the first and second indentations are V-shaped. 9. The wafer handling system of claim 7, wherein the wafer comb and plate are coupled by a suspension system which includes a plurality of springs, each spring being connected at a first end to the wafer comb and at a second end to the plate. 10. A compliant wafer holder including: a plate; and a wafer comb resiliently mounted onto the plate, the wafer comb including at least three wafer-receiving slots in a linear arrangement, each of the slots proportioned to receive a semiconductor wafer in an upright position, wherein the slots are formed to progressively increasing proportions from one end of the linear arrangement to the other end of the linear arrangement and are arranged for supporting wafers in each of the three slots at different levels. 11. The compliant wafer holder of claim 10, wherein the wafer comb and plate are coupled by a suspension system which includes a plurality of springs, each spring being connected at a first end to the wafer comb and at a second end to the plate, the springs arranged to permit deflection of the wafer comb relative to the plate in response to misalignment of a wafer being moved into one of the wafer-receiving slots. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further including: a sensor which outputs a sensor control signal when a motion of the wafer comb relative to the plate exceeds a predetermined amount; a robot member on which the plate is mounted; and a controller coupled to deliver control signals to the robotic member, the controller responsive to the sensor control signal. 