A method of assembling a printhead which has a receiving member and a plurality of printhead modules arranged end-to-end in the receiving member includes, upon completion of manufacturing the receiving member, testing each bay of the receiving member in which a module will be received to determine a manufacturing offset from specification for that bay. A printhead module is selected having a manufacturing offset from specification which compensates for the offset of the bay of the receiving member for which it has been selected and the printhead module is then inserted into its associated bay of the receiving member.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of assembling a printhead, the printhead having a receiving means and a plurality of printhead modules arranged end-to-end in the receiving means, the method comprising the steps of upon completion of manufacturing of the receiving means, testing each bay of the receiving means in which a module will be received to determine a manufacturing offset from specification for that bay; selecting a printhead module having a manufacturing offset from specification which accommodates the offset of the bay of the receiving means for which it has been selected; and inserting the selected printhead into its associated bay of the receiving means. 2. The method of claim 1 which includes, after manufacturing each printhead module, testing the printhead module to determine its manufacturing offset. 3. The method of claim 2 which includes marking each tested printhead with its manufacturing offset. 4. The method of claim 3 which includes storing all tested printhead modules having the same manufacturing offset together in a storage zone. 5. The method of claim 4 in which the step of selecting the printhead module includes removing the selected printhead module from its designated position in the storage zone. 6. The method of claim 1 which includes using a statistical analysis process to ensure use of a very large majority of the modules. 7. The method of claim 6 which includes using a central limit theorem as a statistical analysis tool. 