A system and method for order packing forms a mixed pallet or a mixed multi-pack. In this system, a first embodiment utilizes a high volume module, a low volume module, a sorting and packing module, a prepackage module and a mixed palletizer module for picking, sorting, packaging and palletizing articles. In a second embodiment of the present invention, a bulk load can be fed via a carrousel to a bank of elevators. A transfer device will load different levels of the elevators which can then be moved adjacent a discharge conveyor. A lane is provided in this discharge conveyor for each of the elevators in the bank of elevators. The different levels of the elevators are positioned adjacent the lanes and can discharge articles onto the conveyor in order to form groups of the same or different types of articles. Many different types of articles including beverage containers such as cans, bottles or beverage boxes can use this system. A pallet is formed from the same or different sized package and different varieties of articles can be placed within a single package.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for order packing comprising: a pack supply for supplying preformed packs, the packs containing a plurality of articles, the pack supply including, a plurality of groups configured to hold a selected type of preformed pack, and at least one depalletizer, the preformed packs being removed from one of the plurality of groups by the depalletizer; an article supply for supplying a plurality of types of individual articles; a packaging subsystem for packaging the individual articles into packs; a palletizer for palletizing the packs of articles from both the pack supply and from the packaging subsystem, the packs from the packaging subsystem and from the pack supply being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer; and a conveyor system for transporting the articles from the article supply to the packaging subsystem, to transport the packs from the packaging subsystem to the palletizer, and to transport the packs from the pack supply to the palletizer. 2. The system for order packing as recited in claim 1, wherein the supply for supplying individual articles comprises at least one of a high volume module and a low volume module. 3. The system for order packing as recited in claim 1, wherein the packaging subsystem comprises a plurality of wrappers for wrapping the individual articles into a container, the conveyor system interconnects the plurality of wrappers. 4. The system for order packing as recited in claim 3, wherein the supply for supplying individual articles comprises at least one of a high volume module and a low volume module. 5. The system for order packing as recited in claim 1, wherein a plurality of types of individual articles are supplied by the article supply, and at least one of the packs of individual articles includes different types of the individual articles. 6. A method for order packing, comprising: supplying at least one first type of individual article to a conveyor system at a first substantially continuous rate; supplying at least one second type of individual article to the conveyor system at a second substantially continuous rate, the second substantially continuous rate being greater than the first substantially continuous rate; transporting the individual articles on the conveyor system to a packaging subsystem; packaging the individual articles in the packaging subsystem into packs, each pack having a plurality of articles; providing a pack supply separate from the packaging subsystem; conveying the packs of articles from the pack supply, from the packaging subsystem, and from the plurality of wrappers to a palletizer; and palletizing the packs of articles on a pallet with a palletizer, the packs from the packaging subsystem and from the pack supply being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer. 7. The method for order packing as recited in claim 6, further comprising the step of holding a plurality of selected types of preformed packs in groups in the step of providing the pack supply, the method further including the steps of removing preformed packs from one of the groups and feeding the removed preformed pack to a conveyor system by at least one gantry depalletizer. 8. The method for order packing as recited in claim 6, further comprising the step of wrapping the individual articles into a container in one of a plurality of wrappers, the step of conveying includes conveying the containers from the wrappers to the palletizer. 9. The method for order packing as recited in claim 6, wherein the step of supplying includes supplying a plurality of types of individual articles, and the step for packaging includes packaging at least one pack having different types of the individual articles therein. 10. A system for forming packages of beverage containers having different types of beverage containers in each package, the system comprising: a low volume module structured and arranged to supply at least one first type of beverage container at a first rate not exceeding a first maximum rate, and a high volume module structured and arranged to supply at least one second type of beverage container at a second rate not exceeding a second maximum rate, the second maximum rate being greater than the first maximum rate; a conveyor system for feeding the first and second types of the beverage containers received from the low volume module and the high volume module; a packaging subsystem for packaging the first and second types of beverage containers fed by the conveyor system into a same package; and means for discharging packages from the packaging subsystem. 11. the system for forming packages as recited in claims 10, wherein the conveyor system is configured to feed individual beverage containers from the supply to the packaging subsystem. 12. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 11, wherein the supply provides a different amount of space for groups of beverage containers depending upon a priority of the beverage containers in a particular group and wherein the system further comprises a palletizer for palletizing beverage containers fed from the means for discharging. 13. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 10, wherein the packaging subsystem is configured to package the beverage containers into different sized packages, the different sized packages having a different number of individual beverage containers therein. 14. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 13, further comprising a palletizer for palletizing the packages including the different sized packages, the different sized packages being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer. 15. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 14, wherein the packaging subsystem comprises a plurality of wrappers for wrapping the individual beverage containers into the package, each of the wrappers wrapping one size of package and one type of package, the conveyor system interconnects the plurality of wrappers. 16. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 15, wherein the conveyor system supplies the beverage containers from the supply and includes a plurality of different conveyors within the packaging subsystem and wherein the packaging subsystem further comprising at least one laner, the at least one laner diverts beverage containers incoming from the supply on the conveyor system to one of the plurality of different conveyors in the packaging subsystem. 17. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 10, further comprising a prepackaged module for supplying preformed packs, the preformed packs containing a plurality of beverage containers, the means for discharging including a part of the conveyor system which interconnects both the packaging subsystem and the prepackaged module to a palletizer. 18. A method for forming packages of beverage containers having different types of beverage containers in each package, the method comprising: supplying at least one first type of beverage container to a conveyor system at a first substantially continuous rate; supplying at least one second type of beverage container to the conveyor system at a second substantially continuous rate, the second substantially continuous rate being greater than the first substantially continuous rate; feeding the first and second types of the beverage containers to a packaging subsystem; packaging the first and second types of the beverage containers into a same package in the packaging subsystem; and discharging packages from the packaging subsystem. 19. The method for forming packages as recited in claim 18, wherein the step of feeding supplies individual beverage containers to the packaging subsystem. 20. The method for forming packages as recited in claim 19, further comprising the step of packaging the beverage containers into different sized packages in the step of packaging, the different sized packages having a different number of individual beverage containers therein. 21. The method for forming packages as recited in claim 20, further comprising a palletizer for palletizing the packages including the different sized packages, the different sized packages being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer. 22. The method for forming packages as recited in claim 20, further comprising the step of supplying preformed packs from a prepackaged module, the preformed packs containing a plurality of beverage containers, both the preformed packs and the different sized packages being stackable on the pallet by the palletizer, whereby at least the preformed packs and the different sized packages can be placed on a same pallet. 23. A system for order packing comprising: a pack supply configured to supply preformed packs, the packs containing a plurality of articles; an article supply configured to supply a plurality of types of individual articles; a packaging subsystem configured to package the individual articles into packs, at least one of the packs including different types of the individual articles; a palletizer configured to palletize the packs of articles from both the pack supply and from the packaging subsystem, packs from the packaging subsystem and from the pack supply being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer; and a conveyor system configured to transport the articles from the article supply to the packaging subsystem, to transport the packs from the packaging subsystem to the palletizer, and to transport the packs from the pack supply to the palletizer, wherein the packaging subsystem includes a plurality of wrappers configured to wrap the individual articles into containers, the conveyor system interconnecting the plurality of wrappers. 24. The system for order packing as recited in claim 23, wherein the supply for supplying individual articles comprises at least one of a high volume module and a low volume module. 25. The system for order packing as recited in claim 23, wherein the packaging subsystem packages the individual articles into different sized packages, the different sized packages having a different number of individual articles therein. 26. The system for order packing as recited in claim 25, wherein the different sized packages are placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer. 27. The system for order packing as recited in claim 26, wherein the packaging subsystem comprises a plurality of wrappers for wrapping the individual articles into the package, each of the wrappers wrapping one size of package and one type of package, the conveyor system interconnecting the plurality of wrappers. 28. A method for order packing comprising the steps of: supplying a plurality of types of individual articles to a conveyor system; transporting the individual articles on the conveyor system to a packaging subsystem; packaging the individual articles in the packaging subsystem into packs, each pack having a plurality of articles, and at least one of the packs having different types of the individual articles; providing a pack supply separate from the packaging subsystem; conveying the packs of articles from the pack supply and from the packaging subsystem to a palletizer; and palletizing the packs of articles on a pallet with a palletizer, packs from the packaging subsystem and from the pack supply being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer, wherein said packaging includes packaging the individual articles into different sized packages, the different sized packages having a different number of individual articles therein. 29. The method for order packing as recited in claim 28, wherein the step of supplying individual articles comprises supplying articles from at least one of a high volume module and a low volume module. 30. The method for order packing as recited in claim 28, wherein the step of packaging includes wrapping the individual articles into a container in one of a plurality of wrappers. 31. The method for order packing as recited in claim 28, wherein the step of palletizing includes palletizing the packages including the different sized packages, the different sized packages being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer. 32. A system for order packing comprising: a pack supply for supplying preformed packs, the packs containing a plurality of articles; an article supply for supplying a plurality of types of individual articles; a packaging subsystem for packaging the individual articles into packs; a palletizer for palletizing the packs of articles from both the pack supply and from the packaging subsystem, the packs from the packaging subsystem and from the pack supply being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer; and a conveyor system for transporting the articles from the article supply to the packaging subsystem, to transport the packs from the packaging subsystem to the palletizer, and to transport the packs from the pack supply to the palletizer, wherein the packaging subsystem comprises a plurality of wrappers for wrapping the individual articles into a container, the conveyor system interconnecting the plurality of wrappers. 33. The system for order packing as recited in claim 32, wherein the pack supply includes a plurality of groups for holding a selected type of preformed pack and at least one gantry depalletizer, the preformed packs being removed from one of the groups and fed to the conveyor system by the at least one gantry depalletizer. 34. The system for order packing as recited in claim 33, further comprising a discharge conveyor for each of the groups, the discharge conveyors being a part of the conveyors system and the depalletizer being movable between the groups and the discharge conveyors to move packs from the groups to the discharge conveyors. 35. The system for order packing as recited in 34, claim wherein the depalletizer comprises a gantry depalletizer, the gantry depalletizer including means for gripping at least one preformed pack from one of the groups. 36. A system for forming packages of beverage containers having different types of beverage containers in each package, the system comprising: a supply of individual beverage containers; a packaging subsystem for packaging different types of beverage containers fed by the conveyor system into a same package; a conveyor system for feeding a plurality of types of the beverage containers from the supply to the packaging subsystem; means for discharging packages from the packaging subsystem; and a palletizer for palletizing beverage containers fed from the means for discharging, wherein the supply provides a different amount of space for groups of beverage containers depending upon a priority of the beverage containers in a particular group. 37. A system for forming packages of beverage containers having different types of beverage containers in each package, the system comprising: a supply of individual beverage containers; a packaging subsystem for packaging different types of beverage containers fed by the conveyor system into a same package, the packaging subsystem structured and arranged to package the beverage containers into different sized packages, the different sized packages having a different number of individual beverage containers therein; a conveyor system for feeding a plurality of types of the beverage containers from the supply to the packaging subsystem; means for discharging packages from the packaging subsystem; and a palletizer for palletizing the packages including the different sized packages, the different sized packages being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer, wherein the packaging subsystem comprises a plurality of wrappers for wrapping the individual beverage containers into the package, each of the wrappers wrapping one size of package and one type of package, the conveyor system interconnecting the plurality of wrappers. 38. The system for forming packages as recited in claim 37, wherein the conveyor system supplies beverage containers from the supply and includes a plurality of different conveyors within the packaging subsystem, and wherein the packaging subsystem further comprises at least one laner, the at least one laner diverts beverage containers incoming from the supply on the conveyor system to one of the plurality of different conveyors in the packaging subsystem. 