A pick and place quadruple head construction for transferring as many as four small workpieces such as computer chips and the like simultaneously from a first matrix to a second matrix. The four individual head units are arranged to form a rectangular area which may be contracted or enlarged upon moving three of the units relative to each other along two mutually perpendicular axes. Each unit includes a reciprocable spindle capable of movement along a third axis, and rotatable about the third axis in repeatable cyclic manner. The spindles include vacuum means for picking up and releasing transferred workpieces. Also disclosed is a wear compensating structure for the spindle. In several of the disclosed embodiments, the head units are arranged such that the reciprocating spindles are located in a common vertical plane so that the articles deposited on the place matrix permit an in-line separation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pick and place head element for transporting articles positioned upon a first matrix to a second matrix, in which said articles are positioned upon said second matrix in differing positions relative to positions on said first matrix, comprising at least first, second, third, fourth, and fifth head units, said first head unit being in relatively fixed position upon a common supporting platform lying in a horizontal plane, a guiding rail slidably supporting said second head unit, belt driven means engaging said second head unit; said third head unit being mounted for sliding movement on said rail, said belt driven means including a pair of parallel belt segments moving in opposite directions, each segment being coupled to one of said second and third head units; a second rail slidably supporting said fourth and fifth head units, and second belt driven means including third and fourth rectilinear segments coupled respectively to said fourth and fifth head units. 2. A pick and place head unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein said fourth and fifth head units are simultaneously driven with said second and third head units through relatively greater degrees of linear displacement. 3. A pick and place head element in accordance with claim 2, in which said second and third head units are driven by a single servo motor, and said fourth and fifth head units are driven by a second servo motor. 