A piston cooling system is provided for an internal combustion engine having a crankshaft, a plurality of pistons connected to the crankcase shaft, and a crankcase housing partitioned by a plurality of partition walls into a plurality of partitioned sections, and a pressurized lubrication fluid circuit integrated with the crankcase housing for the circulation of lubricant therethrough. The piston cooling system includes a plurality of bores each formed in a respective partition wall and communicated with the pressurized lubricant fluid circuit. The piston cooling system also includes a plurality of spray nozzles, each spray nozzle being mounted in a longitudinal bore formed in a respective partition wall. Each spray nozzle is oriented for spraying lubricant onto the underside of a piston. Each spray nozzle is formed by a lathe process.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A piston cooling system for an internal combustion engine having a crankshaft, a plurality of pistons connected to the crankcase shaft, and a crankcase housing partitioned by a plurality of partition walls into a plurality of partitioned sections, and a pressurized lubrication fluid circuit integrated with the crankcase housing for the circulation of lubricant therethrough and including a plurality of longitudinal bores each extending through a respective one of the partition walls of the crankcase housing generally coaxially with one another and generally parallel to the crankshaft, the piston cooling system comprising: a plurality of bores each formed in a respective partition wall and communicated with the pressurized lubricant fluid circuit; and a plurality of spray nozzles, each spray nozzle being mounted in a respective longitudinal bore and oriented for spraying lubricant onto the underside of a piston and being communicated with a respective bore such that each spray nozzle is fluidly communicated with the pressurized lubricant fluid circuit wherein each spray nozzle is formed by a lathe process and has a cross bore having a pair of opposed open ends, a pair of stop pieces each disposed in a respective open end of the cross bore, an inlet bore communicated with the cross bore, and a pair of spray holes disposed generally symmetrically from the axial midpoint of the cross bore, whereby the lubricant fluid flows through the inlet bore, thereafter into the closed off cross bore, and is sprayed out of the spray holes and the inlet bore is aligned for fluid communication with the bore of the respective partition wall in which the spray nozzle is mounted. 2. A piston cooling system according to claim 1, wherein the spray nozzles are retained by friction fit in the longitudinal bores. 3. A piston cooling system according to claim 1, wherein each spray nozzle is assembled into its mounted disposition in the respective longitudinal bore by a work tool configured as a hydraulic piston and cylinder unit having a cylinder and a positioning arm fixedly secured to one another, the work tool for inserting a spray nozzle into the longitudinal bore of the respective associated partition wall and the cylinder freely movably retaining a pair of pistons each movable by hydraulic force axially outwardly of the cylinder in an opposite axial direction to the other piston and one piston having an axial outer head configured to extend over an already installed spray nozzle and to support the work tool on the respective partition wall having the already installed spray nozzle therein while the other piston inserts another spray nozzle into the longitudinal bore of another partition wall in response to hydraulic pressure against the pistons. 4. A piston cooling system according to claim 1, wherein each spray nozzle is assembled by a work tool into its mounted disposition in the respective associated longitudinal bore. 5. A piston cooling system according to claim 1, wherein each spray nozzle is formed by a lathe process and is assembled by a work tool into its mounted disposition in the respective associated longitudinal bore. 