A method for depositing biomolecule onto a solid support, the method including the steps of: immersing a tip of a spring probe into a solution of biomolecule; removing said tip from said solution to provide biomolecule solution adhered to said tip; and contacting said biomolecule solution with a solid support to thereby transfer biomolecule solution from said tip to said solid support. The spring probe has a planar tip but it otherwise identical to commercial spring probes. The solution of biomolecule contains a thickening agent in addition to biomolecule, where oligonucleotide is a preferred biomolecule.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spring probe comprising a tubular housing encasing a compression spring, said spring in mechanical communication with a plunger, said plunger having a first region extending out of said housing, said first region comprising a cone-shaped fluted tip terminating as a flat surface, said surface perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of said housing, said cone-shaped tip having in cross-section two exterior sides adjacent said surface which, if said sides extended past said surface, would meet at a point positioned a distance of about 0.00001-0.010 inches beyond said surface. 2. The spring probe of claim 1 where the cone-shaped fluted tip comprises a gold surface. 3. The spring probe of claim 1 wherein said cone-shaped tip has in cross-section two exterior sides adjacent said surface which, if said sides extended past said surface, would meet at a point positioned a distance of about 0.001-0.005 inches beyond said surface. 4. The spring probe of claim 1 wherein said first region comprises a plurality of cone-shaped flutes, the flutes separated by vanes converging toward said flat surface at an angle between approximately 15.degree. and 120.degree.. 5. The spring probe of claim 1 wherein said first region comprises a plurality of cone-shaped flutes, the flutes separated by vanes converging toward said flat surface at an angle between approximately 60.degree. and 90.degree.. 6. A composition comprising a thickening agent at a concentration of about 35 vol % to about 80 vol % based on the total volume of the composition, an oligonucleotide at a concentration ranging from 0.001 .mu.g/mL to 10 .mu.g/mL, and water. 7. The composition of claim 6 wherein the thickening agent is a polyhydric alcohol having at least three hydroxyl groups. 8. The composition of claim 7 wherein the polyhydric alcohol is selected from the group consisting of glycerol, trimethylolpropane, trimethylolethane, pentaerythritol, and saccharides. 9. The composition of claim 8 wherein the saccharide is selected from the group consisting of mannitol, sucrose, fructose, lactose, cellulose and corn syrup. 10. The composition of claim 7 wherein the oligonucleotide is at a concentration of 0.05 .mu.g/mL to 0.5 .mu.g/mL. 11. The composition of claim 6 wherein the thickening agent is glycerol present at a concentration of 40 vol % to 60 vol %. 12. The composition of claim 6 wherein the oligonucleotide is at a concentration ranging from 0.01 .mu.g/mL to 1 .mu.g/mL. 13. The composition of claim 6 wherein the oligonucleotide comprises 15 to 50 nucleotides. 14. The composition of claim 6 wherein the oligonucleotide comprises 50 to 1,000 nucleotides. 15. The composition of claim 6 wherein the oligonucleotide is single stranded. 16. The composition of claim 6 wherein the oligonucleotide is duplex. 17. The composition of claim 6 wherein the oligonucleotide has an amino (--NH.sub.2) group at a 5' end of the oligonucleotide. 18. The composition of claim 17 wherein the oligonucleotide has a hexylamine (--(CH.sub.2).sub.6 --NH.sub.2) group at a 5' end of the oligonucleotide. 19. The composition of claim 17 further comprising trichlorotriazine. 20. The composition of claim 6 having a pH of 7 to 9 and further comprising a buffering agent. 21. The composition of claim 20 wherein the buffering agent is selected from the group consisting of sodium phosphate, sodium borate, sodium carbonate and Tris HCl. 22. The composition of claim 6 having a temperature of 18-25.degree. C. 23. The composition of claim 6 having a viscosity at 20.degree. C. of about 6 to 80 centipoise at 25.degree. C. 