An improved inflatable habitation volume in space comprising reduced cost, improved debris impact protection, enhanced penetration resistance, self sealing qualities, innovative flat end caps, industry accepted commercial design/manufacturing techniques, enhanced inflatable assembly techniques and expanded interior volume. Costs are reduced by compressing the launch package, removing the three gravity launch load requirements from the transportation process and inflating in microgravity. The inflatable habitation volume unit can be connected to either existing orbital facilities or connected to similar units to create expanded volumes and space tourist torus structures rotated for partial gravity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A inflatable volume apparatus comprising: an inflatable volume transportable to space in a compressed form; a connector providing connection between the inflatable volume and at least one other external device; and an expandable interior structure comprising tension cables. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said inflatable volume comprises at least one layer. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said at least one layer comprises: an architectural surface layer comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of color; wearable surface; washable surface; acoustical treatment; minor attachment points for lights, pictures and other removable items. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 comprising a gel layer. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said gel layer comprises a chemical compound that produces foam for transporting to and filling punctures in said apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a detection layer comprising instrumented detection of punctures in said apparatus, wherein upon detection of a puncture, said gel layer produces said foam, said foam is transported to the puncture and fills the puncture. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a detection layer comprising instrumented detection of punctures in said apparatus. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said detection layer comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of spaced wires, fibers and conducting mesh. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a pressure bladder containing an internal pressure of said volume. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said pressure bladder comprises a flexible envelope capable of compressed transport and capable of inflation in space. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said flexible envelope is made of a material capable of preventing rips and capable of enhancing repairs in a microgravity environment. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one material barrier for breaking up high-speed external particles. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 comprising multiple material barriers separated by foam generated in an inflation process of said inflatable volume. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said connector comprises an end cap. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said end cap comprises a disc shape. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said connector comprises utility connectors comprising at least one member selected from the group consisting of bolts, nuts and seals which joins a respective member on a similar end cap unit of the external device. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for attaching said inflatable volume to the external device with a said connector from inside. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tension cables are disposed between two ends of said inflatable volume. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one interior architectural partition attached to said tension cables to utilize an interior for at least one use selected from the group consisting of human habitation, storage, and scientific laboratory. 20. A space habitation module comprising: an inflatable volume transported to space in a compressed form in an aft cargo carrier; and an inflatable volume pre-attached to an aft end of an external tank of a space shuttle; whereby said inflatable volumes are confined to form the habitation module. 