A laser ultrasonic measurement system includes a first and a second laser source configured to generate a first and a second laser beam, respectively. A movable mechanical link is arranged to transmit the first laser beam. The movable mechanical link is formed by a plurality of rigid sections interconnected by rotating joints. A robot is configured to support and control the movement of at least a section of the mechanical link to transmit the first laser beam to an object. An optical scanner is positioned proximate to the mechanical link. The optical scanner is configured to direct the first and second laser beams onto the object. An interferometer is optically coupled to the optical scanner. The interferometer is configured to receive reflected light from the object and in response generate an electrical signal. The first laser source is kinematically mounted in a housing assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser ultrasonic measurement system, comprising: a first and a second laser source configured to generate a first and a second laser beam, respectively; a robot configured to support and control the movement of at least a section of a moveable mechanical link to transmit the first laser beam to an object, the robot comprising a first movable arm section connected to a second movable arm section; a first movable mechanical link having a first end and a second end arranged to optically transmit the first laser beam from the first laser source to the second end of said first movable mechanical link, the first moveable mechanical link formed by a plurality of rigid sections interconnected by one or more rotating joints each containing a plurality of mirrors, the first movable arm section for the robot supporting the movement of the first movable mechanical link; an intermediate rotating joint containing a plurality of mirrors mechanically attached to the robot and optically connected to the second end of the first movable mechanical link and to a first end of a second movable mechanical link; the second movable mechanical link having a first end and a second end arranged to transmit the first laser beam from said intermediate rotating joint to the second end of the second movable mechanical link, the second movable mechanical link formed by a plurality of rigid sections interconnected by one or more rotating joints each containing a plurality of mirrors, said second movable arm section supporting the movement of said second movable mechanical link; an optical scanner proximate to the second end of said second movable mechanical link, an optical path for transmitting said second laser to said optical scanner; the optical scanner configured to direct the first and second laser beams onto the object; and an interferometer optically coupled to the optical scanner; the interferometer configured to receive reflected light from the object and in response generate an electrical signal. 2. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein said optical path for said second laser beam comprises an optical fiber. 3. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the second laser source is placed proximate to the optical scanner. 4. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the optical scanner is mounted on a rotating axis. 5. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the first laser source is kinematically mounted in a housing assembly by a plurality of supports to isolate the laser source from stress. 6. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the first laser source is a gas laser. 7. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the first laser source is a CO2 laser. 8. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the first laser source is a solid-state laser. 9. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the second laser source is a solid-state laser or a fiber laser. 10. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the second laser source is a hybrid laser. 11. The laser ultrasonic measurement system of claim 1, wherein the robot is mounted on a track for increased mobility. 12. A laser ultrasonic measurement system, comprising: a first and a second laser source configured to generate a first and a second laser beam, respectively; a robot comprising a first movable arm section connected to a second movable arm section; a first moveable mechanical link having first and second ends, the first movable mechanical link arranged to optically transmit the first laser beam from said first end to said second end, the mechanical link formed by a plurality of rigid sections interconnected by one or more rotating joints each joint containing a plurality of mirrors, the rigid sections of the first movable mechanical link supported by and movable with the first movable arm section of the robot; a second movable mechanical link having a first end and a second end, the second movable mechanical link arranged to optically transmit the first laser beam from said first end to said second end, the second mechanical link formed by a plurality of rigid sections interconnected by one or more rotating joints each containing a plurality of mirrors, the rigid sections of the second moveable mechanical link supported by and movable with the second movable arm section of the robot; an intermediate rotating joint containing a plurality of mirrors mechanically attached to the robot and optically connected to the second end of the first movable mechanical link and to the first end of the second movable mechanical link; an optical scanner mounted for rotation proximate to the second end of said second movable mechanical link, the optical scanner configured to direct the first and second laser beams onto the object; and an interferometer optically coupled to the optical scanner; the interferometer configured to receive reflected light from the object and in response generate an electrical signal. 