A motion deciding means is provided to decide a motion based on transmitted information which is transmitted from another robot apparatus, so that it is possible to realize a robot apparatus which operates in cooperation with other robot apparatuses regardless of operator's instructions. Thus, such robot apparatuses can constitute a group of robot apparatuses which autonomously move in cooperation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus adapted to operate in cooperation with other robot apparatuses each other, comprising: input means for receiving and inputting transmitted information transmitted from said another robot apparatus; motion decision means, which extracts, from said transmitted information, discrimination information for specifying a robot apparatus targeted for transmission and communication information to be communicated to said robot apparatus targeted for transmission, and which compares said discrimination information with discrimination information which is allocated to said robot apparatus in advance, to decide its motion on the basis of the comparison result and said communication information; and operating means for operating in accordance with the motion decided by said motion decision means. 2. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said communication information includes positional information indicating the present position of said another robot apparatus. 3. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said communication information includes number information indicating, out of robot apparatuses existing around said another robot apparatus, the number of said robot apparatuses belonging to the same group as said another robot apparatus, and the number of said robot apparatuses belonging to a group different from said another robot apparatus. 4. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said motion decision means extracts, from said transmitted information, discrimination information for specifying said robot apparatus targeted for transmission, discrimination information for specifying said another robot apparatus, and communication information to be communicated to said robot apparatus targeted for transmission, and compares the discrimination information for specifying said robot apparatus targeted for transmission with discrimination information which is allocated to said robot apparatus in advance, to decide the motion on the basis of the comparison result, the discrimination information for specifying said another robot apparatus, and said communication information. 5. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said motion decision means extracts, from said transmitted information, discrimination information for specifying said another robot apparatus, discrimination information for specifying said robot apparatus targeted for transmission, and communication information to be communicated to said robot apparatus targeted for transmission, and if said discrimination information for specifying said another robot apparatus coincides with discrimination information of a robot apparatus previously set out of a group of a plurality of robot apparatuses, communication information transmitted from said robot apparatus previously set is accepted in preference to communication information transmitted from any other robot apparatuses to decide the motion. 6. A robot apparatus adapted to operate in cooperation with other robot apparatuses each other, comprising: input means for receiving and inputting transmitted information transmitted from said another robot apparatus; motion decision means for deciding the next motion on the basis of said transmitted information in advance, and for generating and outputting, when a timing signal is inputted through said input means, a driving signal in synchronism with said timing signal to be inputted; and operating means for operating on the basis of said driving signal at timing when said driving signal is outputted from said motion decision means. 7. The robot apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said motion decision means determines, on the basis of a kind of said timing signal defined in said transmitted information, whether or not a signal inputted through said input means is a timing signal. 8. A robot apparatus adapted to operate in cooperation with other robot apparatuses each other, comprising: input means for receiving and inputting transmitted information transmitted from said another robot apparatus; motion decision means to which a role, and a feelings and action pattern of said robot apparatus in connection with said other robot apparatuses are set in advance, for deciding a motion on the basis of said role of said robot apparatus and said transmitted information; and operating means for operating in accordance with the motion decided by said motion decision means. 9. A robot apparatus adapted to operate in cooperation with other robot apparatuses each other, comprising: input means for receiving and inputting transmitted information transmitted from said another robot apparatus; motion deciding means to which a role and feelings and action patterns of said robot apparatus in connection with said other robot apparatuses are set in advance, for deciding feelings and action patterns of said robot apparatus, and also a motion based on said transmitted information; and operating means for operating in accordance with the motion decided by said motion deciding means. 