Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for achromatically bending beam of charged particles by about 90.degree. during radiation treatment. A system may include first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets serially arranged along the particle beam path. The first and fourth bending magnets are configured to generate a positive field gradient that defocuses the particle beam in the bend plane. The second and third bending magnets are configured to generate a negative field gradient that focuses the particle beam in the bend plane. The first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets collectively bend the particle beam by about 90.degree., e.g., by about 22.5.degree. each.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for achromatically bending a particle beam by about 90.degree., the system comprising: first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets serially arranged along a beam path of the particle beam, the first and fourth bending magnets being configured to generate a positive field gradient that defocuses the particle beam in a bend plane; the second and third bending magnets being configured to generate a negative field gradient that focuses the particle beam in the bend plane; the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets collectively bending the particle beam by about 90.degree.. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets each bend the particle beam by about 22.5.degree.. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and fourth bending magnets each comprise an iron cored, dipole electromagnet having pole faces that are inclined relative to one another and shaped so as to generate the positive field gradient, and wherein the second and third bending magnets each comprise an iron cored, dipole electromagnet having pole faces that are inclined relative to one another and shaped so as to generate the negative field gradient. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the pole faces of the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets are shaped such that the positive field gradient is substantially weaker than the negative field gradient. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the pole faces of the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets are each approximately hyperbolically shaped. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the second bending magnet focuses the particle beam to a beam waist located reflection mirror plane midway between the second and third bending magnets. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an X-ray target configured to be irradiated with the bent particle beam. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein a midpoint between the second and third bending magnets defines a mirror plane, the first and fourth bending magnets being positioned substantially symmetrically across the mirror plane from one another, and the second and third bending magnets being positioned substantially symmetrically across the mirror plane from one another. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the particle beam has a substantially round profile before entering the system and following bending. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the particle beam comprises particles having an energy spread of 30% full width or less. 11. A method for achromatically bending a particle beam by about 90.degree., the system comprising: bending the particle beam with a first bending magnet that defocuses the particle beam in a first plane with a positive field gradient, and then bending the particle beam with a second bending magnet that focuses the particle beam in the first plane with a negative field gradient, and then bending the particle beam with a third bending magnet that focuses the particle beam in the first plane with a negative field gradient, and then bending the particle beam with a fourth bending magnet that defocuses the particle beam in the first plane with a positive field gradient, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets collectively bend the particle beam by about 90.degree.. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets are serially arranged along a beam path of the particle beam, and wherein a midpoint between the second and third bending magnets defines a reflection plane, the first and fourth bending magnets being positioned substantially symmetrically across the reflection plane from one another, and the second and third bending magnets being positioned substantially symmetrically across the reflection plane from one another. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the positive field gradient is substantially weaker than the negative field gradient. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the first and fourth bending magnets each comprise an electromagnet and a core having a pole face that is inclined relative to a second plane and shaped so as to generate the positive field gradient, and wherein the second and third bending magnets each comprise an electromagnet and a core having a pole face that is declined relative to the second plane and shaped so as to generate the negative field gradient. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the pole faces of the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets are each approximately hyperbolically shaped. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets each bend the particle beam by about 22.5.degree.. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the second bending magnet focuses the particle beam to a beam waist located at the reflection plane. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the particle beam has a substantially round profile before entering the system and has a substantially round profile following bending. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the particle beam comprises particles having an energy spread of 30% full width or less. 20. A system for achromatically bending a particle beam by about 90.degree., the system comprising: first, second, third, and fourth bending magnets serially arranged along a beam path of the particle beam, a midpoint between the second and third bending magnets defining a reflection plane, the first and fourth bending magnets being positioned substantially symmetrically across the reflection plane from one another, and the second and third bending magnets being positioned substantially symmetrically across the reflection plane from one another; the first and fourth bending magnets being configured to generate a positive field gradient that defocuses the particle beam in a bend plane; and the second and third bending magnets being configured to generate a negative field gradient that focuses the particle beam in the bend plane. 