A human extender controller for interface between a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant. The human extender controller uses an inner-feedback loop to increase the equivalent damping of the operating system to stabilize the system when it contacts with the environment and reduces the impact of the environment variation by utilizing a high feedback gain, determined by a root locus sketch. Because the stability of the human extender controller of the present invention is greatly enhanced over that of the prior art, the present invention is able to achieve a force reflection ratio 500 to 1 and capable of handling loads above the two (2) ton range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for interfacing, a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator, comprising: a. means for generating incoming signals, wherein the incoming signals comprise: i. contact force signals representative of forces from a hand of the human operator interacting with surrounding environment; ii. interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; and iii. actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; b. means for compensating at least partially the incoming signals directly in response to variations of surrounding environment and providing a high feedback gain to reduce overshooting to a step response; and c. means for generating drive signals from the at least partially compensated incoming signals; wherein the actuator uses the drive signals to manipulate the physical object through the physical plant. 2. The controller of claim 1, wherein the incoming signal generating means comprises at least one force sensitive device. 3. The controller of claim 2, wherein the force sensitive device comprises a sensor selected from a group consisting of a strain gauge type transducer and a semi-conductor based gauge type transducer. 4. The controller of claim 1, wherein the incoming signal generating means further comprises means for receiving and filtering the contact force signals and interacting force signals. 5. The controller of claim 4, wherein the receiving and filtering means comprises at least one filter selected from a group consisting of a first order lag filter and a second order lag filter. 6. The controller of claim 1, wherein the incoming signal generating means further comprises means for converting the contact force signals and interacting force signals into an equivalent Cartesian velocity signal vector. 7. The controller of claim 1, wherein the incoming signal generating means further comprises means for converting a contact force signals and interacting force signals into an equivalent force signal vector. 8. The controller of claim 1, wherein the incoming signal generating means further comprises means for integrating the contact and interacting force signals. 9. The controller of claim 8, wherein the integrating means comprises an integrator with antiwindup capability. 10. The controller of claim 1, wherein the compensating means comprises an inner-feedback loop having a constant gain. 11. The controller of claim 10, wherein the inner-feedback loop comprises a load cell or a clevis pin. 12. The controller of claim 10, wherein the inner-feedback loop comprises an accelerometer. 13. The controller of claim 1, wherein the compensating means comprises a compensator. 14. The controller of claim 13, wherein the compensator is capable of producing a constant gain. 15. The controller of claim 13, wherein the compensator comprises a series of lag-lead compensators. 16. The controller of claim 1, wherein the drive signals generating means comprises a limiter. 17. The controller of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises an actuator selected from a group consisting of a hydraulic actuator and an electric actuator. 18. A controller for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by actuating means, comprising: a. means for generating contact force signals representative of forces from a hand of the human operator interacting with surrounding environment; b. means for generating interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; c. means for generating actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuating means by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; d. means for collecting and filtering the contact and interacting force signals; e. means for compensating the contact and interacting force signals and providing a high feedback gain to reduce overshooting to a step response; f. means for compensating the actuating force signals; and g. means for summing the contact force signals, the interacting force signals and actuating force signals into drive signals; wherein the actuating means uses the drive signals to manipulate the physical object through the physical plant. 19. The controller of claim 18, wherein the contact and interacting force signals compensating means comprises a compensator capable of providing a high feedback gain. 20. The controller of claim 18, wherein the actuating force signal compensating means comprises an inner-feedback loop. 21. The controller of claim 18, wherein the actuating means comprises an actuator. 22. A controller for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator, comprising: a. at least one first force sensitive device for generating contact force signals representative of forces from a hand of the human operator interacting with surrounding environment; b. at least one second force sensitive device for generating interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; c. at least one third force sensitive device for generating actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; d. at least one first filter receiving the contact force signals from the first force sensitive device; e. at least one second filter receiving the interacting force signals from the second force sensitive device; f. a compensator for compensating the contact and interacting force signals, wherein the compensator is capable of producing high feedback gain to reduce overshooting to a step response; g. an inner-feedback loop having a constant gain for compensating the actuating force signals, the inner-feedback loop comprising a load cell; and h. a limiter receiving the compensated contact force signals, interacting force signals and actuating force signals, and thereby generating drive signals for manipulating the physical object, whereby the actuator receives the drive signals and uses the drive signals to manipulate the physical object through the physical plant. 23. A method for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator, comprising the steps of: a. generating contact force signals representative of forces from a hand of the human operator interacting with surrounding environment; b. generating interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; c. gencrating actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; d. receiving and filtering the contact force signals and interacting force signals; e. compensating the actuating force signals by damping, the actuating force signals; f. generating drive signals from the contact force signals, interacting force signals and actuating force signals; and g. using the drive signals to manipulate the physical object through the physical plant. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising the steps of: a. changing the contact force signals and the interacting force signals into equivalent Cartesian velocity signals; b. converting the Cartesian velocity signals into joint velocity signals by inverting a manipulator-specific Jacobian matrix; and c. compensating the joint velocity signals with high feedback gain. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the compensating step comprises the step of solving a characteristic equation of transfer function to determine the gain to reduce overshooting to a step response. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the actuating force signals compensating step comprises the step of damping the actuating force signals by an inner-fcedback loop. 27. A method for interfacing a human operator and a physical object through a physical plant, wherein the physical plant is driven by at least one actuator, comprising: a. generating incoming signals, wherein the incoming signals comprise: i. contact force signals representative of forces from a hand of the human operator interacting with surrounding environment; ii. interacting force signals representative of forces caused at the physical plant by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; and iii. actuating force signals representative of forces caused at the actuator by interaction between the physical plant and the physical object; b. compensating at least partially the incoming signals directly in response to variations of the environment and providing a high feedback gain to reduce overshooting to a step response; c. generating drive signals from the at least partially compensated incoming signals; and d. using, the drive signals to manipulate the physical object. 