An apparatus for chemical vapor deposition includes a dispenser for dispensing a precursor to a vaporizer positioned within a vaporization chamber. A delivery conduit joins the vaporization with a process chamber. A flow meter is positioned within the delivery conduit for measuring the flow of precursor through the delivery conduit. A flow controller is likewise positioned within the delivery conduit for controlling the flow of precursor in response to the measured flow rate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A precursor delivery system comprising: a vessel defining a vaporization chamber; a vaporizer within the vaporization chamber, the vaporizer having a stepped sloped surface including a plurality of ridges that inhibit movement of material along the sloped surface; a dispenser positioned to deliver precursor onto the vaporizer; a heat source in thermal contact with the vaporizer for vaporizing precursor; and a vapor outlet through which vaporized precursor can exit the vaporization chamber. 2. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, further comprising at least one pressure sensor for measuring vapor pressure in the vaporization chamber. 3. The precursor delivery system of claim 2, further comprising a processor in communication with the pressure sensor and programmed to govern the dispenser to deliver precursor in response to measurements from the pressure sensor. 4. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, wherein the vaporizer is dome- or cone-shaped with the apex of the dome or cone positioned to receive precursor delivered by the dispenser. 5. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a delivery conduit coupled to the vapor outlet, the delivery conduit including a flow controller that regulates vapor flow out of the vaporization chamber. 6. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, comprising a plurality of vaporizers and a plurality of dispensers, each dispenser associated with a respective dispenser. 7. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a reservoir containing a copper source coupled to the dispenser. 8. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a reservoir containing a tantalum source coupled to the dispenser. 9. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a reservoir containing a titanium source coupled to the dispenser. 10. The precursor delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a reservoir containing a silicon source coupled to the dispenser. 11. A precursor delivery system, comprising: a plurality of vessels each defining a vaporization chamber; a vaporizer within each vaporization chamber having a stepped sloped surface including a plurality of ridges that inhibit movement of material along the sloped surface; a dispenser positioned to deliver precursor onto each vaporizer; a heat source in thermal contact with each vaporizer for vaporizing precursor; and a vapor outlet at each vaporization chamber through which vaporized precursor can exit the vaporization chamber. 12. The precursor delivery system of claim 11, further comprising a reservoir connected to each dispenser, each reservoir containing a different precursor. 13. The precursor delivery system of claim 11, further comprising a silicon source in a first reservoir, a tantalum source in a second reservoir, and a titanium source in a third reservoir. 14. The precursor delivery system of claim 11, further comprising a copper source in a first reservoir and an aluminum source in a second reservoir. 15. The precursor delivery system of claim 14, further comprising a titanium source in a third reservoir. 16. The precursor delivery system of claim 11, wherein each vaporizer has a sloped surface. 17. The precursor delivery system of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of delivery conduits coupled to the vapor outlets, wherein the plurality of delivery conduits include at least one flow controller that regulates vapor flow out of each vaporization chamber. 18. The precursor delivery system of claim 17, further comprising a process chamber coupled with the plurality of delivery conduits. 