A force feedback interface including a haptic accelerator that relieves the computational burden associated with force feedback generation from a force feedback processor. The force feedback processor is preferably a device microprocessor included in the interface device and separate from a controlling host computer for determining forces to be output. The haptic accelerator quickly determines velocity and/or acceleration information describing motion of a user manipulatable object from raw position data received from sensors of the interface device and representing the position of the user object. The velocity and/or acceleration data is used by the force feedback processor in the determination of forces to be output on the user object. The haptic accelerator can in some embodiments also quickly and reliably determine condition forces which depend on the motion of the user object, thus relieving additional computation burden from the force feedback processor and permitting the force feedback processor to focus on determining other types of forces and overseeing the operation of the force feedback interface device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A user interface device for use with a host computer displaying a graphical environment on a display device, said host computer displaying and updating said graphical environment in response to user manipulation of said interface device and commanding force feedback sensations in response to said user manipulation and in coordination with events within said graphical environment, the interface device comprising: a user manipulatable object able to be physically contacted by a user and movable in a degree of freedom; a sensor that tracks the motion of said user manipulatable object in said degree of freedom, said sensor outputting a sensor signal indicative of a position of said user manipulatable object in said degree of freedom; an actuator for creating a tactile sensation to be felt by said user; a local microprocessor separate from said host computer and coupled to said host computer, said local microprocessor reporting data to said host computer, said data based at least in part on said sensor signal, and said local microprocessor determining open loop forces to be output by said actuator based on at least one command sent from said host computer; and a second processor separate from said local microprocessor and from said host computer and coupled to said actuator, said second processor determining closed loop forces and controlling said actuator to output said closed loop forces to produce said tactile sensation in accordance with interactions in said graphical environment displayed on said host computer system, wherein said open loop forces and said closed loop forces are summed by said second processor to a total force to be output by said actuator. 2. A user interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said closed loop forces include a spring sensation and a damping sensation. 3. A user interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said second processor includes a haptic processing unit for determining said tactile sensation. 4. A user interface device as recited in claim 3 wherein said second processor receives parameters from said local microprocessor to determine said tactile sensation. 5. A user interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said second processor receives said sensor signal from said sensor and determines a velocity of said user manipulatable object from said sensor signal. 6. A user interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said second processor is a microprocessor. 7. A user interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said second processor includes pulse width modulation (PWM) capability for driving said actuator. 8. A user interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said second processor includes an analog circuit that provides analog positions and velocities of said user manipulatable object to a haptic processing unit of said second processor. 9. A method for outputting forces from a force feedback device, said force feedback device coupled to a host computer displaying a graphical environment on a display device, said host computer displaying and updating said graphical environment in response to user manipulation of said force feedback device and commanding force feedback sensations in response to said user manipulation and in coordination with events within said graphical environment, the method comprising: receiving a sensor signal from a sensor of said force feedback device, said sensor signal indicative of a position of a user manipulatable object in a degree of freedom; determining a position of said user manipulatable object from said sensor signal; reporting said position to said host computer, said reporting performed by a first processor on said force feedback device, said first processor being separate from said host computer; determining a closed loop force based on a command received by said force feedback device from said host computer to correlate said force with an event in said graphical environment, said determining a closed loop force being performed by a second processor on said force feedback device, said second processor being separate from said host computer and from said first processor; determining open loop forces by said first processor to be output on said actuator based on at least one command sent from said host computer; and summing said open loop force sand said closed loop force by said second processor to a total force and outputting said total force using an actuator on said force feedback device controlled by said second processor, said force being felt by a user of said force feedback device. 10. A method as recited in claim 9 further comprising determining a velocity of said user manipulatable object from said sensor signal, and wherein said closed loop force is based at least one of said position and said velocity. 11. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein said second processor determines said open loop forces to be output on said actuator based on at least one command sent from said host computer. 12. A method a s recited in claim 10 wherein said second processor receives said sensor signal from said sensor and determines said position and said velocity of said user manipulatable object from said sensor signal. 13. A method as recited in claim 9 wherein said first processor receives a command from said host computer and said second processor receives parameters from said first processor to determine said closed loop force, said parameters derived from said command. 14. A force controller for providing force feedback using a force feedback interface device, said force controller coupled to said feedback interface device, wherein a host computer controls a display of a graphical environment on a display device, said host computer updating said graphical environment in response to user manipulation of said interface device and commanding force feedback sensations in response to said user manipulation and in coordination with events within said graphical environment, the force controller comprising: a local microprocessor separate from said host computer and commanding forces to be output by an actuator of said interface device based on commands received from said host computer, said forces being felt by a user of said interface device; and a haptic accelerator coupled to and separate from said local microprocessor and said host computer, said haptic accelerator receiving sensor data from at least one sensor of said interface device and providing processed data from said sensor data, said processed data including position data representing a current position of a user manipulatable object of said interface device in at least one degree of freedom and velocity data representing a current velocity of said user manipulatable object in at least one degree of freedom, said position data being sent to said host computer to be used in updating said graphical environment, and wherein at least one of said position data and said velocity data is used in a determination of motion-based forces output to said actuator, wherein said haptic accelerator determines said motion-based forces based on at least one of said position data and said velocity data, said haptic accelerator outputting said motion-based forces to said actuator, wherein said local microprocessor determines open loop forces primarily based on time and sends said open loop forces to said actuator to be output, and wherein said open loop forces and said closed loop force are summed by said haptic accelerator to a total force to be output by said actuator. 15. A force controller as recited in claim 14 wherein said local microprocessor determines open loop forces primarily based on time and sends said open loop forces to said actuator to be output. 