An autonomous remote controlled vehicle for use in the automation of an existing refrigerated flow through storage facility food processing application. The remote vehicle is specifically designed to operate within a network of centrally controlled remote vehicles that are adapted to receive selectable items from production and temporarily store them for later retrieval. The system is adapted to minimize travel time for the remote vehicle and optimize cycle time. The system is specifically adapted to handle cardboard shipping boxes containing meat products.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automation for a flow through storage meat processing facility comprising the steps of: a) processing flow through storage facility data received using a central data parser controller which performs various flow through storage facility functions for effecting automation of a flow through storage facility; b) parsing the processed data out to remote central process controllers throughout a flow through storage facility using the central data parser controller; c) analyzing data sent by the central data parser within the remote central process controllers to determine what actions are to occur; d) assigning tasks within the remote central process controllers to at least one remote vehicle; and e) transmitting a remote controlled signal to the at least one remote vehicle and using on board remote vehicle process controllers, which processes data received in the signal from the remote central process controllers, to generate the remote vehicle task functions that are communicated by the control signal transmitted to the at least one remote vehicle. 2. A method of automation as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a) controlling vehicle specific movements to perform tasks assigned by the remote process controllers using the on board remote vehicle process controllers; and b) transporting the at least one remote vehicle to locations, as controlled by the on board remote vehicle controller, where flow through storage task assignments for selectively lumping or picking an item are to be performed. 3. The method of automation as recited in claim 2 where transporting is by way of an overhead trolley and power line connection and a motorized traction means operatively connected to said remote vehicle. 4. The method of automation as recited in claim 2 further comprising the step of: sensing spatial position of an object that is separate and distinct from members of the remote vehicle with respect to the remote vehicles outer dimensions in order to navigate the vehicle and avoid collision. 5. The method of automation as recited in claim 2 further comprising the steps of: a) sensing item identification codes attached to items to be operated on; and b) sensing spatial position with respect to the remote vehicle of items to be operated on by mechanical members of the remote vehicle as a result of task assignments, related to lumping and picking and skid handling operations so that the mechanical members special movements can be controlled by the on-board controller accordingly. 6. The method of automation as recited in claim 2 further comprising the steps of: a) extending a carriage portion of the remote vehicle toward an item to press against the item for stability of remote vehicle and assuring items for which said carriage portion makes contact does not move; and b) extending the mechanical members over the top and behind the item and pulling on to a platform of the remote vehicle. 7. The method of automation as recited in claim 6 where the mechanical members are pinion driven telescoped rail arms having finger members operable to selectively extend downward from said arms. 8. The method of automation as recited in claim 6 further comprising the step of: displacing the item on the platform of the remote vehicle to a conveyor, for shipping. 9. The method of automation as recited in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a) reporting status of sensors and diagnostics to an on-board controller and a subset of the status to the remote central process controllers; and b) diagnosing on board failures of remote vehicle using diagnostic circuitry. 10. The method of automation as recited in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: a) tracking the locations of a plurality of remote vehicles with the central data parser controller; and b) tracking quantity and location of items in flow through storage bins with the central data parser controller. 11. The method of automation as recited in claim 1 where the central data parser controller performs various flow through storage facility functions comprising bookkeeping functions, product scheduling, shipment ordering, and reporting functions for seamless transport of items from production, to storage and on to shipping. 12. A method of automation for a flow through storage meat processing facility comprising: a) providing at least one remote vehicle having an on board remote vehicle process controller; b) receiving to the remote vehicle process controller a remote controlled signal from a remote central process controller containing parsed data specific to a task to be performed by the remote vehicle; c) processing the parsed data with the remote vehicle process controller to generate the at least one remote vehicle task function that is communicated in the remote controlled signal; d) transporting the at least one remote vehicle to locations as controlled by the on board remote vehicle controller where flow through storage task assignments for selectively lumping or picking an item are to be performed; and e) controlling vehicle specific operations with the on board remote vehicle controller. 13. The method of automation as recited in claim 12 where transporting is by way of an overhead trolley and power line connection and a motorized traction means operatively connected to said remote vehicle where said remote vehicle is suspended from said overhead trolley. 14. The method of automation as recited in claim 13 further comprising the step of: sensing spatial position of an object that is separate and distinct from members of the remote vehicle with respect to the remote vehicle outer dimensions in order to navigate the vehicle and avoid collision. 15. The method of automation as recited in claim 12 further comprising the steps of: a) sensing item identification codes attached to items to be operated on; and b) sensing spatial position of items to be operated on by mechanical members of the remote vehicle as a result of task assignments, related to lumping and picking and skid handling operations, so that the mechanical members special movements can be controlled by the on-board controller accordingly. 16. The method of automation as recited in claim 12 further comprising the steps of: a) extending a carriage portion of the remote vehicle toward an item to press against item for stability of remote vehicle and making the items for which it makes contact does not move; and b) extending the mechanical members over the top and extending downward behind the item and pulling on to platform of remote vehicle. 17. The method of automation as recited in claim 16 where the mechanical members are pinion driven telescoped rail arms having finger members operable to extend downward from said arm. 18. The method of automation as recited in claim 16 further comprising the step of: displacing the item on the platform of the remote vehicle to a conveyor, for shipping. 19. The method of automation as recited in claim 12 further comprising the steps of: a) reporting status of sensors and diagnostics to on-board controller and a subset of the status to the remote central process controllers; and b) diagnosing on board failures of remote vehicle using diagnostic circuitry. 20. The method of automation as recited in claim 12 further comprising the steps of: a) tracking the locations of a plurality of remote vehicles with the central data parser controller; and b) tracking quantity and location of items in flow through storage bins with the central data parser controller. 21. The method of automation as recited in claim 12 where the central data parser controller performs various flow through storage facility functions comprising bookkeeping functions, product scheduling, shipment ordering, and reporting functions for seamless transport of items from production, to storage and on to shipping. 22. The method of automation for a flow through storage meat processing facility comprising the steps of: providing a remote central process controller in a flow through storage facility operable to analyze parsed data from a central data parser controller to assign tasks to at least one remote vehicle and further operable to transmit a remote central signal to said remote vehicle, said signal containing information for generating remote vehicle task functions. 