A method and device for preparing nanoscale reactions. An automated system utilizes an array of reaction chambers. The ends of the chambers are temporarily sealed with deformable membranes and reactions effected by incubation or temperature cycling. Reaction mixtures may be assembled by using the reaction containers to meter reaction components. After the reaction is finished, the reaction containers may be dispensed onto a substrate and the reaction products analyzed. An automated transfer device may be used for automated transport of the reaction container array or other transportable elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for performing small scale reactions, the system comprising: a capillary cassette having a substrate and a plurality of capillaries extending through said substrate, wherein each of said capillaries has first and second open ends on opposing sides of said substrate; a pair of membranes orientated and spaced such that they may temporarily seal the opposed ends of said capillaries; a thermal cycler having an internal chamber of sufficient capacity to hold said capillary cassette and said membranes; and an automated transfer device positioned to contact and move the capillary cassette to a location where the ends of the capillary may be sealed by the pair of membranes and the capillary cassette with ends sealed by said membranes may be located within the internal chamber of the thermal cycler. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a dispenser that dispenses a fluid from capillaries of the capillary cassette onto a location on a receiving substrate, wherein the automated transfer device may move the capillary cassette in relation to said dispenser and receiving substrate such that the fluid contained within the capillaries of the capillary cassette are dispensed onto the substrate. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the dispenser is a centrifuge. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the dispenser is an air displacement dispenser. 5. The system of claim 2, further comprising an analytical stage positioned such that the automated transfer device may transfer said capillary cassette in relation to said dispenser such that contents within said capillary cassette may be dispensed onto a substrate located upon said stage. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said substrate is a sample preparation microchip and the automated transfer device is disposed to dispense the capillary cassette directly into a plurality of sample preparation microchip sample receiving wells. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said substrate is an array of capillaries and the automated transfer device is dispersed to disperse the capillary cassette directly into the capillaries. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein said substrate is a multiwell plate. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the capillaries have an interior volume of 10-1000 nL. 10. The system of claim 1, further including a capillary cassette wash station, wherein said automated transfer device may transfer a capillary cassette into contact with said wash station, said wash station directing a wash solution through the capillaries of the capillary cassette when said capillary cassette is placed within said wash station. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said wash station has a wash solution tank and an upper wash manifold that may be moved to a position above said wash solution tank, wherein a wash fluid may be introduced into said wash solution tank and drawn by suction into the wash manifold when the capillary cassette is inserted into said wash station. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said wash station further includes a plurality of wash fluid bottles each containing a wash fluid and a selector valve allowing selection of a wash fluid from one of said bottles to fill said wash solution tank. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising an electronic control which may be programmed to send electronic instructions to components of the system. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein said pair of membranes are affixed to opposing sides of the internal chamber of the thermal cycling device. 15. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of microplate holder magazines which dispense microplates to a location where said automated transfer device may contact and move the microplates. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein said membranes are deformable membranes held with a spring bias to temporarily seal the ends of the capillaries. 17. A system for nanoscale reaction preparation, the system comprising: a capillary cassette including a substrate and a plurality of capillaries extending through said substrate, each capillary having an internal volume of between 10 nl and about 1 uL, wherein each of said capillaries has a first and a second open end on opposing sides of said substrate, wherein the length of the capillary extending through substrate on one side of the substrate is matched to be shorter than the depth of a microplate well; a multiwell plate having a plurality of wells into which the capillaries of the capillary cassette may be inserted; a dispenser that dispenses fluid contained within the capillaries of the capillary cassette into wells of said multiwell plate when said capillary is transported to the dispenser; an automated transfer robot having a transfer head to carry articles selected from the group comprising capillary cassettes, multiwell plates, and multiwell plates with capillaries of a capillary cassette inserted into the wells of the multiwell plates; a pair of opposing membrane surfaces, wherein the ends of the capillaries may be temporarily sealed by pressing the membranes against said ends; and a thermal cycler having an internal chamber of sufficient capacity to hold said capillary cassette and said membranes when said membranes are sealing the ends of the capillaries of the capillary cassette, wherein the thermal cycler is disposed such that the automated transfer robot may place a capillary cassette into an internal chamber within said thermal cycler wherein said membranes may seal the end of the capillaries of said capillary cassette within said internal chamber. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said dispenser is an electrokinetic injector. 19. The system of claim 17 wherein said dispenser is a centrifuge. 20. The system of claim 17 wherein said dispenser is an air displacement head. 21. The system of claim 17 wherein said dispenser is disposed to dispense liquid from the capillaries onto an analytical substrate located on an analytical stage. 22. The system of claim 17, further comprising a capillary cassette wash station, wherein said automated transfer device may transfer a capillary cassette into contact with said wash station, said wash station directing a wash solution through interiors of the capillaries of the capillary cassette when said capillary cassette is placed within said wash station. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said wash station includes a lower wash solution tank and an upper wash manifold, wherein a wash fluid may be introduced into said wash solution tank and drawn by suction into the wash manifold when the capillary cassette is inserted into said wash station. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said wash station further includes a plurality of wash fluid bottles and a selector valve in fluid communication with said bottles for selection of a wash fluid to fill said wash solution tank. 25. The system of claim 17, further comprising an electronic control, said control sending electronic instructions to effect programmed operation of said system. 26. A system for preparing nanoscale reactions, the system comprising: a substrate having integrally associated elongate submicroliter volume reaction containers having two opposing ends; a reaction mixture contained within said reaction containers; a pair of membranes disposed to temporarily seal said opposing ends of said reaction containers; a thermal cycler having an internal chamber of sufficient dimension to receive said substrate with associated elongate reaction chambers sealed by said membranes. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein said substrate has capillaries extending through said substrate, wherein said capillaries act as the reaction chambers. 28. The system of claim 26, wherein said elongate reaction containers pass through the thickness of said substrate. 29. The system of claim 26, wherein said thermal cycler circulates heated air through a continuous circuit, wherein said internal chamber is part of said continuous circuit. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein said continuous circuit may be vented by blocking a section of said internal passageway and venting said heated air thereby allowing rapid temperature adjustment of said heated air. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein said internal chamber contains said membranes mounted on opposing surfaces of said internal chamber. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein at least one of said membranes is mounted within said internal chamber with a spring bias which provides a sealing force of said membranes against said ends of said reaction containers. 33. The system of claim 26, further comprising a means for dispensing said reaction containers. 34. The system of claim 26, further comprising a means for combining reagents to form said reaction mixture and a means for filling said reaction containers with said reaction mixture. 35. The system of claim 26, further comprising a wash station which may hold and wash said reaction containers. 36. A method to prepare nanoscale thermal cycling reaction mixtures, the steps comprising; combining compounds to form a reaction mixture; introducing said reaction mixture into a plurality of reaction containers disposed on a substrate, each reaction container having an internal volume less than one microliter and having a first and second open end; temporarily sealing the ends of reaction containers by pressing a pair of opposing membranes against a first and second set of reaction container ends; exposing the sealed reaction containers to temperature cycles to effect a reaction in the reaction mixture; and dispensing the reaction containers onto a substrate. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the steps of combining compounds to form a reaction mixture includes the steps: metering an amount of a first liquid reaction component by placing one end of a plurality of capillaries of a capillary cassette into contact with the first liquid reaction component wherein the capillaries fill by capillary action; dispensing the first liquid reaction component onto discrete locations on a substrate; metering an amount of a second liquid reaction component by placing one end of the capillaries of a capillary cassette into contact with the reaction reagents wherein the capillaries fill by capillary action; and dispensing the second liquid reaction component onto the discrete locations, thereby combining said first and second liquid reaction components to form a reaction mixture. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of introducing said reaction mixture into a plurality of reaction containers is effected by providing a capillary cassette and dipping one open end of capillaries of the capillary cassette into contact with the reaction mixture so that the capillaries fill by capillary action. 39. The method of claim 36 wherein the steps of combining compounds to form a reaction mixture includes the steps: immobilizing a biomolecule sample on an interior surface of the reaction container; metering an amount of reaction reagents into the capillaries of the capillary cassette by placing one end of the capillaries of a capillary cassette into contact with the reaction reagents wherein the capillaries fill by capillary action, whereby the reaction reagents and the immobilized biomolecule combine to form the reaction mixture. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the biomolecule is a nucleic acid. 41. The method of claim 36 wherein the steps of combining compounds to form a reaction mixture include the steps: coating a plurality of surface locations with a layer of desiccated reaction reagents; and adding to each surface location a nucleic acid sample in solution of sufficient volume to dissolve the solid layer of reaction reagents, thereby forming a reaction mixture. 42. The method of claim 36 wherein the steps of combining compounds to form a reaction mixture include the steps: coating an interior surface of each capillary in a capillary cassette with a layer of desiccated reaction reagents; and metering an amount of nucleic acid sample in solution into the capillaries of the capillary cassette by placing one end of the capillaries of a capillary cassette into contact with the nucleic acid sample in solution, whereby the capillaries fill by capillary action, whereby the solution allows the layer of reaction reagents to dissolve, forming the reaction mixture. 43. The method of claim 36, wherein the step of dispensing the reaction containers onto a substrate is effected by: placing the substrate with associated reaction containers in a centrifuge; positioning a substrate at a radially distal end of one open end of said reaction containers; and applying centrifugal force such that liquid reaction mixtures contained within said reaction containers are dispensed onto said substrate. 44. The method of claim 36, wherein the step of dispensing the reaction containers onto a substrate is effected by: displacing the contents of the reaction containers onto a substrate using air displacement. 45. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of temporarily sealing the ends of the reaction containers by pressing a pair of opposing membranes against a first and second set of reaction container ends is effected by: placing the reaction containers within an interior chamber of a thermal cycler, wherein when the reaction containers are enclosed within said thermal cycler, deformable membranes on opposing interior surfaces of said interior chamber temporarily seal the reaction containers' ends on each end of the reaction containers. 46. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of exposing the sealed reaction to temperature cycles to effect a reaction is effected circulating heated air past the reaction containers through a conduit which allows rapid venting of air to the exterior of said conduit to effect rapid temperature changes during the temperature cycles. 47. A thermal cycling device for exposing reaction mixtures to temperature cycles, the device comprising: a housing enclosing a continuous interior circuit passageway, said housing having a section that may be temporarily opened to allow access to the interior of the housing; a blower disposed within said circuit passageway to direct air flow in one direction in the internal circuit passageway; a heating element disposed in said internal circuit passageway such that air circulating within said passageway passes through said heating element; a sample holding compartment having two membranes positioned in opposing orientation within said sample holding compartment, wherein said membranes may be biased against opposing ends of containers inserted into the sample holding compartment; housing air vent which may be opened to rapidly exhaust heated circulating air; and a housing air intake for drawing air into said interior circuit passageway when the vent exhausts heated circulating air. 48. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 further comprising a temperature monitoring device disposed in the internal passageway proximate to a sample holding compartment. 49. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 further comprising at least one air diffuser disposed in the internal passageway between the blower and the sample holding compartment, said diffuser promoting uniform temperature in the air circulating in the internal passageway. 50. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 wherein at least one of the membranes within the sample holding compartment is spring biased. 51. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 further comprising insulation affixed to the surfaces of the interior circuit passageway. 52. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 further comprising an electronic control which sends instruction to components of the thermal cycling device. 53. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 wherein said vent is opened by moving a section of said housing located between said sample holding compartment and said air intake such that the internal passageway is at least partially restricted and an opening to outside said housing is created. 54. The thermal cycling device of claim 47 wherein the housing has a sealable opening to admit access to the sample holding compartment. 55. A method for performing reactions, the method comprising, a) introducing reaction mixtures into a reaction container set, each container in the set having two opposing ends and an internal volume between 10 to 1000 nl; b) temporarily sealing the ends of the reaction chambers by pressing a deformable membrane against the opposing ends of said reaction containers; c) effecting a reaction within said reaction containers; d) dispensing reaction mixtures onto discrete locations on a substrate; and e) combining said reaction mixtures with at least 1 .mu.l of a liquid reagent mixture. 56. The method of claim 55, further comprising the step of: f) reacting the completed reaction mixture with the liquid reagent mixture. 57. The method of claim 56, further comprising the step of: g) combining reacted mixtures of step f with a reaction reagent set to form a second reaction mixture set; h) introducing said second reaction mixture set into a second reaction container set, each reaction container having two opposing ends and an internal between 10 and 1000 nl; i) temporarily sealing the ends of the set of reaction containers by pressing deformable membranes against the opposing ends of said reaction containers; j) effecting a reaction within said second reaction container set; and k) dispensing reacted mixtures from said second reaction container set. 58. The method claim 57, wherein step f occurs under isothermal reaction conditions. 59. The method of claim 57, wherein the reaction mixture of step a is a PCR mixture, the liquid reagent mixture of step e contains exonuclease I and shrimp alkaline phospotase, and the second reaction mixture. 60. The method of claim 57 wherein steps c and j include exposing the reaction container sets to temperature cycles. 61. The method of claim 60 wherein the exposing reaction container sets to temperature cycles is effected by a circulating air thermal cycler. 62. The method of claim 57 wherein the second reaction container set is dispensed onto an analytical substrate. 63. The method of claim 57 wherein the second reaction container set is dispensed into the ends of capillaries in a capillary electrophoresis array. 64. The method of claim 57 wherein the second reaction container set is dispensed into the wells of a microplate. 