The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for the automatic receipt and distribution of products, such as parenteral products or oral/solid products from a hospital pharmacy or specimen from a laboratory, through a pneumatic tube transport system. More specifically the system of the present invention includes a robotic transfer device capable of automatically receiving and opening a pneumatic tube carrier, automatically retrieving a product from a pick-up point and placing the product into the carrier, and automatically closing and distributing the carrier into a pneumatic tube transport system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for transferring objects between a first location and a second location, wherein said apparatus comprises: a transfer device having means for engaging and releasing said objects; a first location and a second location; support means for supporting said transfer device; means for bundling a plurality of said objects; a connecting arm; and means for controlling at least said connecting arm, said support means, and said transfer device; wherein said connecting arm attaches said transfer device to said support means, and wherein said connecting arm is rotatable such that said transfer device is movable between said first location and said second location. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for bundling ties said objects. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said means for bundling comprises jaws for receiving said objects from said first location or said second location, wherein said connecting arm positions said transfer device such that said means for bundling receives and ties said objects. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises means for providing labeling tickets. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said tickets include an attachment means for bundling at least one of said tickets with said objects. 6. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said tickets are printed with information comprising routing instructions for identification of said objects. 7.An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said information is embodied into a barcode. 8. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said information is embodied into readable print. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said transfer device is rotatable about the longitudinal axis of said connecting arm. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said transfer device is rotatable about all axes perpendicular to said longitudinal axis. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging and releasing said objects comprises a screw. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging and releasing said objects comprises a gripper. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for engaging and releasing said objects comprises a slide rod. 14. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said transfer device comprises a robotic arm. 15. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein at least one of said first location or said second location comprises a station for automatically providing said objects from a pharmacy robot. 16. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein at least one of said first location or said second location comprises an automatic pneumatic tube carrier opening, loading and closing station. 17. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a pneumatic tube system. 18. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a laboratory workstation. 19. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a laboratory robot. 20. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a conveyor transport system. 21. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said means for engaging and releasing said objects comprises a screw. 22. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said means for engaging and releasing said objects comprises a gripper. 23. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said means for engaging and releasing said objects comprises a slide rod. 24. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein at least one of said first location or said second location comprises a station for automatically providing said objects from a pharmacy robot. 25. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein at least one of said first location or said second location comprises an automatic pneumatic tube carrier opening, loading and closing station. 26. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a pneumatic tube system. 27. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a laboratory workstation. 28. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a laboratory robot. 29. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said first location or said second location comprises a conveyor transport system. 30. An apparatus for a product bundling, labeling and transferring device, wherein said apparatus comprises control means for controlling said bundling, said labeling and said transferring and a means for supporting a robotic arm, said robotic arm comprising a gripper having jaws for engaging, bundling and releasing products, and a connecting arm for connecting said robotic arm to said means for supporting, wherein said robotic arm is rotatable in three dimensions. 