An automatic, partially automatic, and/or manual iterative system, method and/or computer program product for generating chemical entities having desired or specified physical, chemical, functional, and/or bioactive properties. The present invention identifies a set of compounds for analysis; collects, acquires or synthesizes the identified compounds; analyzes the compounds to determine one or more physical, chemical and/or bioactive properties (structure-property data); and uses the structure-property data to identify another set of compounds for analysis in the next iteration. An Experiment Planner generates Selection Criteria and/or one or more Objective Functions for use by a Selector. The Selector searches the Compound Library to identify a subset of compounds (a Directed Diversity Library) that maximizes or minimizes the Objective Functions. The compounds listed in the Directed Diversity Library are then collected, acquired or synthesized, and are analyzed to evaluate their properties of interest. In one embodiment, when a compound in a Directed Diversity Library is available in a Chemical Inventory, the compound is retrieved from the Chemical Inventory instead of re-synthesizing the compound. The Analysis Module receives the compounds of the Directed Diversity Library from the Chemical Inventory and/or the Synthesis Module, analyzes the compounds and outputs Structure-Property data. The Structure-Property data is provided to the Experiment Planner and is also stored in the Structure-Property database. The Experiment Planner defines one or more new Selection Criteria and/or Objective Functions for the next iteration of the invention. In one embodiment, a Structure-Property Model Generator generates Structure-Property Models and provides them to the Experiment Planner which uses the Models to generate subsequent Selection Criteria and/or Objective Function.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying one or more target chemical compounds having desired properties, comprising the steps of: (1) identifying an electronically stored library of chemical compounds; (2) receiving a list of one or more desired properties that the one or more target chemical compounds shall possess; (3) generating a set of one or more selection criteria from the list of one or more desired properties, wherein said set of one or more selection criteria includes one or more functions that receive property values for the one or more chemical compounds and that return one or more selection criteria values for the one or more chemical compounds; (4) picking one or more initial sets of chemical compounds from the library of chemical compounds, each said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds including a plurality of chemical compounds, wherein a plurality of said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds are not identical to one another; (5) using the set of one or more selection criteria and properties values for the one or more chemical compounds in the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds to calculate selection criteria values for the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds, whereby the selection criteria values indicate an extent to which the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria; (6) picking one or more new sets of chemical compounds from the library of chemical compounds, each said one or more new sets of chemical compounds including a plurality of chemical compounds, wherein a plurality of said one or more new sets of chemical compounds are not identical to one another and wherein at least on of said one or more new sets of chemical compounds are not identical to at least one of said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds; (7) using the set of one or more selection criteria and property values for the one or more chemical compounds in the one or more new sets of chemical compounds to calculate selection criteria values for the one or more new sets of chemical compounds, whereby the selection criteria values indicate an extent to which the one or more new sets of chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria; (8) repeating steps (6) and (7) a plurality of times; (9) selecting a first set of chemical compounds from the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds and the one or more new sets of chemical compounds, based on a comparison of the respective selection criteria values; (10) obtaining physical samples of the first set of chemical compounds; (11) experimentally determining structure-property data from the physical samples of said first set of chemical compounds; and (12) determining, from at least the experimentally determined structure-property data of the first set of chemical compounds, whether any of the chemical compounds in the first set of chemical compounds exhibit one or more properties that are similar to one or more of the desired properties that one or more target chemical compounds shall possess. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (13) updating the property values for the one or more chemical compounds with the experimentally determined structure-property data obtained in step (11); and (14) repeating steps 1-12, using the updated property values for the one or more chemical compounds in steps (5), (7), and (8). 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein step (14) comprises the step of generating a second set of one or more selection criteria and using the second set of selection criteria when repeating steps in steps (5), (7), and (8). 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein step (14) further comprises the step of revising the first set of one or more selection criteria to generate the second set of one or more selection criteria. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein step (14) further comprises the step of revising one or more of the one or more functions of the first set of one or more selection criteria. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein step (14) further comprises the step of repeating steps 1-12, using a second library of chemical compounds. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the first and second libraries are the same libraries. 8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the first and second libraries are not the same libraries. 9. The method according to claim 6, wherein step (14) further comprises the step of adding one or more chemical compounds to the first library of chemical compounds to generate the second library of chemical compounds. 10. The method according to claim 6, wherein step (14) further comprises the step of removing one or more chemical compounds from the first library of chemical compounds to generate the second library of chemical compounds. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the steps of: (a) generating one or more objective functions that describe an extent to which a set of one or more chemical compounds shall satisfy one or more selection criteria. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the objective function comprises one or more multi-objective functions. 13. The method according to claim (1), wherein step (3) comprises the step of: (a) generating one or more structure-property models that predict one or more desired properties of chemical compounds. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (6) comprises the step of replacing one or more compounds in one or more of the initial sets of chemical compounds to generate the one or more of the new sets of chemical compounds. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein steps (5) through (9) are implemented using one or more of the following techniques: (a) Monte Carlo; (b) simulated annealing; (c) evolutionary programming; and (d) genetic algorithms. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of diversity between a plurality of the compounds. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of a similarity between one or more of the compounds and one or more reference compounds. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of one or more of the following: a cost of synthesizing one or more of the compounds; a cost of screening one or more of the compounds; and a cost of testing one or more of the compounds. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of an availability of one or more of the compounds. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of an availability of one or more reagents required to synthesize one or more of the compounds. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of a predicted ease of synthesis of one or more of the compounds. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that returns an indication of a predicted yield of synthesis of one or more of the compounds. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to fit a receptor binding site. 24. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to bind selectively to a receptor binding site. 25. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to fit a 3-dimensional receptor map model. 26. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts a bioavailability of one or more of the compounds. 27. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts a toxicity of one or more compounds. 28. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that derives additional selection criteria from information pertaining to one or more of the compounds. 29. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to exhibit one or more desired properties. 30. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to test a validity of one or more structure-property models. 31. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating a function that predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to discriminate between two or more structure-property models. 32. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (3) comprises the step of generating one or more functions that perform a plurality of the following functions: returns an indication of diversity between a plurality of the compounds; returns an indication of a similarity between one or more of the compounds and one or more reference compounds; returns an indication of a cost of one or more of the compounds; returns an indication of an availability of one or more of the compounds; returns an indication of an availability of one or more reagents required to synthesize one or more of the compounds; returns an indication of a predicted ease of synthesis of one or more of the compounds; returns an indication of a predicted yield of synthesis of one or more of the compounds; predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to fit a receptor binding site; predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to bind selectively to a receptor binding site; predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to fit a 3-dimensional receptor map model; predicts a bioavailability of one or more of the compounds; predicts a toxicity of one or more compounds; derives additional selection criteria from information pertaining to one or more of the compounds; predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to exhibit one or more desired properties; predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to test a validity of one or more structure-property models; returns an indication of whether a compound is identified in a patent; and predicts an ability of one or more of the compounds to discriminate between two or more structure-property models. 33. The method according to claim 1, wherein said selection criteria further comprises one or more constraints for selecting the first set of compounds. 34. The method according to claim 33, wherein step (3) further comprises the step of providing a list of compounds to be excluded from the list of one or more compounds. 35. The method according to claim 33, wherein step (3) further comprises the step of providing a list of reagents that can be accommodated by a synthesizing system, whereby a compound is excluded from the list of compounds if the compound must be synthesized and if the synthesis requires a reagent not on the list of reagents. 36. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (1) comprises the step of identifying a library of chemical compounds that are one or more of: collectable from an in-house source; acquirable from an outside source; and synthesizable. 37. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (10) comprises one or more of the following steps: obtaining one or more of the compound samples from an in-house source; obtaining one or more of the compound samples from an outside source; and snythesizing one or more of the compound samples. 38. The method according to claim 1, wherein the property values for the chemical compounds include structure-property data and non-structure-property data. 39. The method according to claim 1, wherein steps (5) and (7) comprise the step of: (a) evaluating an extent to which a set of compounds satisfies a plurality of selection criteria. 40. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of said set of one or more selection criteria is embodied in a computer readable form, and wherein steps (5)-(9) are performed, at least partially, in a processor. 41. A computer program product comprising a computer useable medium having computer program logic stored therein to enable a computer system to select a set of chemical compounds from an electronically stored library of chemical compounds for laboratory testing, to evaluate experimentally determined structure-property data for the chemical compounds obtained from laboratory testing, and to determine whether one or more of the chemical compounds in the selected get of chemical compounds exhibit one or more properties that are similar to one or more desired properties, wherein said computer program logic comprises: a receiving function that receives a list of one or more desired properties that one or more target compounds shall possess and property values for chemical compounds in the library of chemical compounds; a selection criteria generating function that generates a set of one or more selection criteria from the from the list of one or more desired properties, said set of one or more selection criteria including one or more functions that receive property values for the one or more chemical compounds and that return one or more selection criteria values, whereby said selection criteria values indicate extents to which the one or more chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria; a compound selection function that: picks one or more initial sets of chemical compounds from the library of chemical compounds, each said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds including a plurality of chemical compounds, wherein a plurality of said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds are not identical to one another, uses the selection criteria and the property values for the one or more chemical compounds in the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds to calculate selection criteria values for the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds, whereby the selection criteria values indicate extents to which the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria, picks one or more new sets of chemical compounds from the library of chemical compounds, each said one or more new sets of chemical compounds including a plurality of chemical compounds, wherein a plurality of said one or more new sets of chemical compounds are not identical to one another and wherein at least one of said one or more new sets of chemical compounds are not identical to at least one of said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds, uses the selection criteria and the property values for the one or more chemical compounds in the one or more new sets of chemical compounds to calculate selection criteria values for the one or more new sets of chemical compounds, whereby the selection criteria values indicate extents to which the one or more new sets of chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria, and selects a first set of compounds from the one or more initial sets of compounds and the one or more new sets of chemical compounds, based on a comparison of the respective selection criteria values; and a chemical compound analysis function that receives experimentally determined structure-property data for the first set of compounds and that determines from at least the actual structure-property data of the first set of chemical compounds, whether any of the chemical compounds in the first set of chemical compounds exhibit one or more properties that are similar to one or more of the desired properties that one or more target chemical compounds shall possess. 42. A system for identifying one or more target chemical compounds having desired properties, comprising: means for identifying an electronically stored library of chemical compounds; means for receiving a list of one or more desired properties that the one or more target chemical compounds shall possess; means for generating a set of one or more selection criteria from the list of one or more desired properties, wherein said set of one or more selection criteria include one or more functions that receive property values for the one or more chemical compounds and that return one or more selection criteria values for the one or more chemical compounds; means for picking one or more initial sets of chemical compounds from the library of chemical compounds, each said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds including a plurality of chemical compounds, wherein a plurality of said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds are not identical to one another; means for using the selection criteria and the property values for the one or more chemical compounds in the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds to calculate selection criteria values for the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds, whereby the selection criteria values indicate an extent to which the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria; means for picking one or more new sets of chemical compounds from the library of chemical compounds, each said one or more new sets of chemical compounds including a plurality of chemical compounds, wherein a plurality of said one or more new sets of chemical compounds are not identical to one another and wherein at least one of said one or more new sets of chemical compounds are not identical to at least one of said one or more initial sets of chemical compounds; means for using the selection criteria and the property values for the one or more chemical compounds in the one or more new sets of chemical compounds to calculate selection criteria values for the one or more new sets of chemical compounds, whereby the selection criteria values indicate an extent to which the one or more new sets of chemical compounds meet the set of one or more selection criteria; means for selecting a first set of chemical compounds from the one or more initial sets of chemical compounds and the one or more new sets of chemical compounds, based on a comparison of the respective selection criteria values; means for obtaining physical samples of the first set of chemical compounds; means for experimentally determining structure-property data from physical samples of the first set of chemical compounds; and means for determining, from at least the experimentally determined structure-property data of the first set of chemical compounds, whether any of the chemical compounds in the first set of chemical compounds exhibit one or more properties that are similar to one or more of the desired properties that one or more target chemical compounds shall possess. 