A thermal processing chamber configured to enclose and heat treat a single electronic substrate at an exposed surface, such as a wafer or electronic circuit board being re-melted, includes an enclosed gas tight and particle free heat insulated chamber. An electronic substrate support is placed within the enclosed gas tight and particle free heat insulated chamber. A convection gas inlet distribution manifold adjustable in spatial relation towards and away from the surface to be treated provides a flow of heated gas over and onto the exposed surface of the electronic substrate to be treated. A heated convection gas outlet is placed below the electronic substrate for the collection of heated gas after flowing over, around and below the exposed surface of the electronic substrate to be treated. A door is movable between and open and closed position. The door opens a path to move the electronic substrate into and out of the chamber to and from the electronic substrate support in an open position. The door has a gas-tight seal with respect to the chamber when in the closed position. A heater having an inlet for receiving gas, and an outlet for discharging heated gas provides heated gas for the convection treatment. A heat exchanger receives gas from the convention gas outlet and discharges gas to the heater inlet to enable heat recovery from the gas discharged from the convention gas outlet and to simultaneously enable precise temperature control. Provision is made for disposing individual ovens in juxtaposition to enable multiple substrates to be processed simultaneously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thermal processing chamber configured to enclose and heat treat an electronic substrate at an exposed surface comprising: an enclosed gas tight and particle free heat insulated chamber; an electronic substrate support within the enclosed gas tight and particle free heat insulated chamber; a convection gas inlet distribution manifold to provide a flow of heated gas over and onto the exposed surface of the electronic substrate to be treated; a heated convection gas outlet below the electronic substrate for the collection of heated gas after flowing over, around and below the exposed surface of the electronic substrate to be treated; a door movable between and open and closed position to provide a path to move the electronic substrate into and out of the chamber to and from the electronic substrate support in an open position, the door having a gas-tight seal with respect to the chamber when in the closed position; a heater having an inlet for receiving gas, and an outlet for discharging heated gas; and, a heat exchanger for receiving gas from the convection gas outlet and discharging gas to the heater inlet to enable heat within gas discharged from the convention gas outlet to be recovered to gas provided to the heater inlet. 2. The thermal processing chamber according to claim 1 and wherein: a electronic substrate conveying actuator opens and closes said door. 3. The thermal processing chamber according to claim 1 and wherein: convection gas inlet distribution manifold includes nozzles above the wafer adjustable towards and way from the exposed surface of the electronic substrate. 4. The thermal processing chamber according to claim 1 and wherein: the enclosed gas tight and particle free heat insulated chamber includes an inner chamber. 5. The thermal processing chamber according to claim 1 and wherein: the electronic substrate support within the enclosed gas tight and particle free heat insulated chamber includes individual support members for supporting the electronic substrate. 6. The thermal processing chamber according to claim 1 wherein a closely coupled to a heater section coupled to the gas inlet, and a temperature measurement sensor coupled to the convection gas outlet. 7. A thermal processing chamber configured to enclose and support a single semiconductor wafer comprising: a wafer support means (pins or edge support); a heated convection gas inlet distribution plenum with nozzles above the wafer that is adjustable in distance above the wafer and with a nozzle pattern that is varied according to the desired process and wafer size and type; a heated convection gas outlet collection plenum with collection holes below the wafer; an inner chamber lining that is gas tight and particle free; a thermal insulation system surrounding the inner chamber lining; an external skin and structure system to protect the insulation system and provide structural support for the chamber and related ancillaries; and, an actuator operated door to provide a path to move a wafer in and out of the chamber and provide a gas-tight seal when closed. 8. The thermal processing chamber of claim 7 closely coupled to a heater section coupled to the convection gas inlet, and a temperature measurement sensor coupled to the convection gas outlet. 9. The integrated chamber and heater module of claim 8 coupled to a temperature controller that is programmable for multiple temperature steps from a remote system controller. 10. The integrated chamber, heater controller module of claim 9 coupled to a heat exchanger that cross-couples the inlet and outlet convection gas streams. 11. The integrated chamber, heater, controller, heat-exchanger module of claim 4 coupled to a variable speed fan and filter. 12. The integrated chamber, heater, controller, heat exchanger, fan-filter module of claim 11 mounted into a frame module with supports for all components, and all connections organized into a modular interconnect panel, thereby forming an integrated process module. 13. A wafer processing system comprised of one or more integrated process modules of claim 12 integrated with a robotic wafer handler and a wafer loading port where the port is a pass-thru shelf or a removable cassette with single or multiple wafer positions. 14. A wafer processing system comprised of one or more integrated process modules of claim 6 integrated with a robotic wafer handler and a wafer loading port where the port is a SMIF-type load port; the load port may include a product lot-tracking feature. 15. A wafer processing system comprised of one or more integrated process modules of claim 14 integrated with a robotic wafer handler and a wafer loading port where the port is a FOUP-type load port; the load port may include a product lot-tracking feature. 16. A wafer processing system as identified in claim 15 but including a feature to read identification codes of individual wafers. 17. The wafer processing system as identified in claim 16 closely coupled to a second wafer processing system that applies photo-resist, solder-paste, solder-balls, dielectric, or other coatings or stenciled substances which require a subsequent thermal process step to either cure, stabilize, reflow, or otherwise drive the process to a stable condition. 