A method and apparatus for automated interfacing with a processing tool in a manufacturing environment having a tilt mechanism and a rotation mechanism. In one embodiment, semiconductor wafers in a cassette are presented to a processing tool by tilting the cassette during movement towards the tool. The tilt mechanism provides a means for seating the wafers in the cassette. The rotation mechanism allows the cassette to be adjusted to meet a robotic arm which extracts wafers from the cassette. Where the cassette is part of a Standard Mechanical InterFace (SMIF) system, the pod is placed onto the interface apparatus, where the pod cover is removed to allow processing of the wafers. A bellows is provided to cover the exposed cassette, thus creating an extended mini-environment including the interface apparatus, tool, and pod cover. In one embodiment, the interface apparatus includes robotic arms and a lift mechanism. Operation of the lift mechanism to open a container effects the positioning of the robotic arms to transfer the container to the tool. In one embodiment, semiconductor wafers in a cassette are ionized as the robotic arms position to grip the cassette. A gripping mechanism is adapted to grip a variety of containers in a variety of positions. A base receiver accepts containers in a first and a second orientation. A main controller provides control to a plurality of motors and functional blocks within the interface apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interface apparatus for use in a manufacturing environment having a processing tool, the interface apparatus comprising: a platform, comprising: an engagement piece adapted to secure a container, the container adapted for holding a plurality of articles; and a plate supporting the engagement piece; a tilt mechanism coupled to the platform and adapted to tilt the plate from a first to a second position, wherein the plate is held in the second position during presentation of the articles to the processing tool; a photo emitter and a photo receiver, such as an infrared (IR) transmitter and sensor or a laser and a sensor, wherein the emitter and receiver determine position of the article, whether an article is present in a particular location or whether an article is protruding or mispositioned such as for wafer mapping; and a rotation controller coupled to the platform and adapted to rotate the plate in a horizontal plane, the rotation controller comprising: a circular guide for directing rotation of the plate in the horizontal plane; a motor to rotate the plate in the horizontal plane; and a mount to constrain movement within the horizontal plane. 2. The interface apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the tilt mechanism is used to seat the articles in the container. 3. The interface apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising: a latching means for coupling the engagement piece to the container; wherein the container is a SMIF pod for holding semiconductor wafers; and wherein the movement controller, the rotation controller and the latching means are configured below the platform. 4. The interface apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising: a base support adapted for coupling to the processing tool; a pair of guide supports coupled at a right angle to the base support; and a movable plate for opening and closing a cover over the container, the movable plate guided by the pair of guide supports. 5. The interface apparatus as in claim 3, further comprising: a baffle cover adapted to cover the container secured on the engagement piece; wherein the movable plate includes a clamp mechanism for holding one end of the baffle cover; and wherein the base support includes a slide mechanism for holding another end of the baffle cover. 6. The interface apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the rotation controller comprises: a horseshoe connector coupled to the bottom of the plate; a belt positioned along the outside of the horseshoe connector; and a motor for driving the belt. 7. The interface apparatus as in claim 6, wherein the latching means and the movement controller are positioned within the horseshoe connector on the bottom of the plate. 8. The interface apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the interface apparatus is part of a standard mechanical interface (SMIF) system. 9. The interface apparatus as in claim 3, wherein the tilt mechanism is used to seat wafers in the container. 10. The interface apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the rotation controller is located below the platform. 11. The interface apparatus as in claim 9, further comprising: a first controller adapted to interface with an external processing system, comprising: a computer program adapted to communicate with an external data processing system, wherein the computer program receives information from within the interface apparatus and communicates the information to the external data processing system; and a memory storage unit for storing operational information associated with the interface apparatus; wherein the memory storage unit is adapted to store information received from the external data processing system. 12. The interface apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the container is a SMIF pod for holding semiconductor wafers; and wherein the interface apparatus further comprises an infrared sensor. 13. The interface apparatus as in claim 1, wherein: the container comprises a SMIF pod for holding semiconductor wafers. 14. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the tilt mechanism positions at least one semiconductor wafer in the container. 15. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising: a sensor for determining a wafer identification for at least one semiconductor wafer. 16. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising: a first sensor for identifying empty locations within the container; and a second sensor for determining a correct orientation of at least one wafer. 17. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the engagement piece further comprises: an adjustment means to accept an alternate size wafer. 18. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising: an index controller for indexing wafers stored in the container. 19. The interface apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the index controller further comprises: a gear mechanism for stepping through wafers stored in the container. 20. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising: a sensor for determining the orientation of semiconductor wafers within the container. 21. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising: a sensor for identifying empty locations within the container. 22. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising: a first controller adapted to interface with an external processing system, comprising: a computer program adapted to communicate with an external data processing system, wherein the computer program receives information from within the interface apparatus and communicates the information to the external data processing system; and a memory storage unit for storing operational information associated with the interface apparatus. 23. The interface apparatus as in claim 22, wherein the memory storage unit is adapted to store information received from the external data processing system. 24. The interface apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the interface apparatus is an enclosed environment, further comprising: a protection means for providing electrostatic discharge (ESD) protection. 25. The interface apparatus as in claim 24, wherein the protection means comprises a point of use filter, wherein the point of use filter eliminates contaminants from the enclosed environment. 26. The interface apparatus as in claim 24, wherein the protection means comprises: an injection port for providing a flow of nitrogen into the interface apparatus. 27. The interface apparatus as in claim 26, the protection means further comprises: an ejection port for maintaining a predetermined condition within the interface apparatus. 28. A robotic arm, comprising: a gripping mechanism; an ionization means coupled to the gripping mechanism; and a first elongated member having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the first elongated member is pivotally attached to one end of the gripping mechanism. 29. The robotic arm of claim 28, wherein the gripping mechanism is further characterized as having a plate with a plurality of perforations therein. 30. The robotic arm of claim 28, wherein the ionization means is further characterized as an ionization bar. 31. The robotic arm of claim 28, further comprising a second elongated member having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the second elongated member is pivotally attached to an opposite end of the gripping mechanism. 32. The robotic arm of claim 31, further comprising a lift mechanism, wherein a first portion of the lift mechanism is pivotally attached to the second end of the first elongated member and a second portion of the lift mechanism is pivotally attached to the second end of the second elongated member. 33. The robotic arm of claim 28, further comprising a manifold coupled to plate, wherein the manifold overlies the plurality of perforations. 34. The robotic arm of claim 33, wherein the ionization means is further characterized as being coupled to the manifold. 35. An interface apparatus for use with a manufacturing tool, the interface apparatus comprising: a platform adapted to receive a container placed thereon, the container having a base and a cover; a lift mechanism adapted to remove the cover from the container; a robotic arm adapted to remove an article from the base of the container, wherein the robotic arm is coupled to the lift mechanism such that the movement of the lift mechanism is used to position the robotic arm proximate to the article so that the article can be removed from the container and placed within the manufacturing tool; and an ionization means coupled to the robotic arm, wherein the ionization means passes near the article when the robotic arm is positioned proximate to the article. 36. The interface apparatus of claim 35, further comprising: an alignment sensor coupled to the robotic arm, wherein the alignment sensor checks the alignment of the article when the robotic arm is positioned proximate to the article. 37. An interface apparatus for use with a processing tool, the interface apparatus composing: a platform adapted to receive a container placed thereon; a lift mechanism adapted to remove a cover from the container; a robotic arm adapted to remove a cassette that contains a semiconductor substrate from the container, wherein the robotic arm is coupled to the lift mechanism such that the movement of the lift mechanism is used to position the robotic arm proximate to the cassette so that the cassette can be removed from the container and placed within the processing tool; and an ionization means coupled to the robotic arm, wherein the ionization means passes an open side of the cassette when the robotic arm is positioned proximate to the cassette. 38. The interface apparatus of claim further comprising: an alignment sensor coupled to the robotic arm, wherein the alignment sensor checks the alignment of the semiconductor substrate in the cassette when the robotic arm is positioned proximate to the cassette. 39. An interface apparatus control unit for use in a manufacturing environment, the interface apparatus comprising a platform and a tilt mechanism and adapted to transfer articles of manufacture within the manufacturing environment, the unit comprising: a processing unit comprising a central processing unit (CPU), a serial conversion unit, an analog-to-digital converter, and a pulse width modulator; an analog conversion unit coupled to the processing unit, the analog conversion unit generating a reference current in response to signals from the processing unit; a motor control circuit coupled to the processing unit, the motor control circuit adapted to compare the reference current to an internally generated current, the motor control circuit adapted to provide motor control signals; a multiplexer for selecting from among a plurality of analog input signals, the multiplexer providing a selected signal to the processing unit for analog-to-digital conversion; a display circuit coupled to the processing unit, the display circuit adapted to display a current operating status of the interface apparatus; a user interface circuit coupled to the processing unit; a serial input/output circuit for sending/receiving a serial output signal to/from the processing unit; and a software modulated periodic digital signal; w herein the processing unit interfaces with external devices through digital and serial communication; and wherein the processing unit receives at least one analog signal and in response provides power management within the interface apparatus. 40. A controller as in claim 39, wherein the controller is adapted for multi-dimensional control of a robotic arm in the interface apparatus. 