A location-centric library host manages cartridge movement according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses. In reality, the library has multiple data storage cartridge receiving slots, which include physical I/O slots and physical storage slots. In contrast with the physical I/O slots and physical storage slots, functional I/O addresses and functional storage addresses are virtual locations used by the host in managing cartridge locations. Thus, host knowledge of cartridge locations is limited to their functional addresses. The library includes a library map that correlates functional addresses with physical addresses. The library automatically empties new cartridges from the physical I/O slots into physical storage slots, using various steps. First, the library hardware automatically recognizes external placement of cartridges into the physical I/O slots. In response, the library identifies an empty one of the physical storage slots, and moves the cartridge into the empty physical storage slot. Additionally, the library associates a functional I/O address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge. Eventually, the library receives an insert command from the host, requesting transfer of the cartridge from its functional I/O address to a functional storage address. The library can immediately report the already-completed move in response to any host status requests. Ultimately, in response to the insert command, the library associates the physical storage slot that already contains the cartridge with a functional storage address, instead of the preceding functional I/O address.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing insert operations in a data storage library having multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots having physical addresses and including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, where the library includes a controller coupled to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses, and the library includes a library database associating functional addresses with physical addresses, the method comprising the following operations performed by the controller: automatically recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots; identifying an empty one of the physical storage slots; moving the cartridge into the empty physical storage slot; selecting an available functional I/O address; updating the library database to exclusively associate the available functional I/O address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge; advising the host that the available functional I/O address contains a cartridge; responsive to receiving an insert request from the host, the insert request requesting transfer of the cartridge from the available functional I/O address to a target functional storage address, performing operations comprising: reporting completion of the insert to the host; updating the library database to associate the target functional storage address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge and disassociate the available functional I/O address from the physical slot containing the cartridge. 2. The method of claim 1, the operation of recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots comprising: receiving signals from detection components of the library that automatically activate in response to physical placement of the cartridge. 3. The method of claim 1, the operation of recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots comprising: polling the physical I/O slots upon a prescribed schedule to determine whether any new cartridges have been placed therein. 4. The method of claim 1, the operations further comprising: maintaining a host-accessible catalog showing the associations between functional addresses and cartridges. 5. The method of claim 1, the library database including: a library status map showing the associations between functional addresses and physical addresses; a library status table listing each physical address and identifying any cartridge contained therein. 6. The method of claim 1, the cartridges comprising magnetic tape cartridges. 7. A signal-bearing medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform a method for managing insert operations in a data storage library having multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots having physical addresses and including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, where the library includes the digital data processing apparatus and the apparatus is coupled to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses, and the library includes a library database associating functional addresses with physical addresses, the method comprising the operations of: automatically recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots; identifying an empty one of the physical storage slots; moving the cartridge into the empty physical storage slot; selecting an available functional I/O address; updating the library database to exclusively associate the available functional I/O address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge; advising the host that the available functional I/O address contains a cartridge; responsive to receiving an insert request from the host, the insert request requesting transfer of the cartridge from the available functional I/O address to a target functional storage address, performing operations comprising: reporting completion of the insert to the host; updating the library database to associate the target functional storage address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge and disassociate the available functional I/O address from the physical slot containing the cartridge. 8. The medium of claim 7, the operation of recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots comprising: receiving signals from detection components of the library that automatically activate in response to physical placement of the cartridge. 9. The medium of claim 7, the operation of recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots comprising: polling the physical I/O slots upon a prescribed schedule to determine whether any new cartridges have been placed therein. 10. The medium of claim 7, the operations further comprising: maintaining a host-accessible catalog showing the associations between functional addresses and cartridges. 11. The medium of claim 7, the library database including: a library status map showing the associations between functional addresses and physical addresses; a library status table listing each physical address and identifying any cartridge contained therein. 12. The medium of claim 7, the cartridges comprising magnetic tape cartridges. 13. A logic circuit of multiple interconnected electrically conductive elements configured to perform operations to signal-bearing medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform a method to manage insert operations in a data storage library having multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots having physical addresses and including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, where the library includes the logic circuit and the logic circuit is coupled to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses, and the library includes a library database associating functional addresses with physical addresses, the method comprising the operations of: automatically recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots; identifying an empty one of the physical storage slots; moving the cartridge into the empty physical storage slot; selecting an available functional I/O address; updating the library database to exclusively associate the available functional I/O address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge; advising the host that the available functional I/O address contains a cartridge; responsive to receiving an insert request from the host, the insert request requesting transfer of the cartridge from the available functional I/O address to a target functional. storage address, performing operations comprising: reporting completion of the insert to the host; updating the library database to associate the target functional storage address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge and disassociate the available functional I/O address from the physical slot containing the cartridge. 14. A data storage library, comprising: multiple slots to receive data storage cartridge, the slots including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, each slot having a physical address; robotics to move cartridges among various locations including the slots; a controller coupled to the robotics and to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses; a library database, accessible by the controller, correlating functional addresses with physical addresses; where the controller is configured to perform operations to carry out insert requests from the host, the operations comprising: automatically recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots; identifying an empty one of the physical storage slots; moving the cartridge into the empty physical storage slot; selecting an available functional I/O address; updating the library database to exclusively associate the available functional I/O address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge; advising the host that the available functional I/O address contains a cartridge; responsive to receiving an insert request from the host, the insert request requesting transfer of the cartridge from the available functional I/O address to a target functional storage address, performing operations comprising: reporting completion of the insert to the host; updating the library database to associate the target functional storage address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge and disassociate the available functional I/O address from the physical slot containing the cartridge. 15. The library of claim 14, the operation of recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots comprising: receiving signals from detection components of the library that automatically activate in response to physical placement of the cartridge. 16. The library of claim 14, the operation of recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots comprising: polling the physical I/O slots upon a prescribed schedule to determine whether any new cartridges have been placed therein. 17. The library of claim 14, the operations further comprising: maintaining a host-accessible catalog showing the associations between functional addresses and cartridges. 18. The library of claim 14, the library database including: a library status map showing the associations between functional addresses and physical addresses; a library status table listing each physical address and identifying any cartridge contained therein. 19. The library of claim 14, further including the cartridges. 20. A data storage library, comprising: multiple slots to receive data storage cartridge, the slots including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, each slot having a physical address; robotic means for moving cartridges among various locations including the slots; controller means coupled to the robotic equipment and to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses; a library database, accessible by the controller means, correlating functional addresses with physical addresses; where the controller means is configured for carrying out insert requests from the host by: automatically recognizing external placement of a cartridge into the physical I/O slots; identifying an empty one of the physical storage slots; moving the cartridge into the empty physical storage slot; selecting an available functional I/O address; updating the library database to exclusively associate the available functional I/O address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge; advising the host that the available functional I/O address contains a cartridge; responsive to receiving an insert request from the host, the insert request requesting transfer of the cartridge from the available functional I/O address to a target functional storage address, performing operations comprising: reporting completion of the insert to the host; updating the library database to associate the target functional storage address with the physical storage slot containing the cartridge and disassociate the available functional I/O address from the physical slot containing the cartridge. 