The present invention is a device having a rigidly linked jaw that is decoupled from an articulating wrist. The device provides for articulating motion as well as actuation that may be used in grasping, cutting, suturing or the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for minimally invasive surgery comprising: moving a first rigid rod along a longitudinal axis of an elongate housing having a proximal end and a distal end, the moving comprising pushing the first rigid rod to pivot an end effector in a first direction about a first rotational axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, the moving further comprising pulling the first rigid rod to pivot the end effector in a second direction opposite the first direction about the first rotational axis, the end effector operably coupled to the distal end of the housing; and moving a second rigid rod along the longitudinal axis of the elongate housing, the movement of the second rod being translated into rotational movement of the end effector by a pin confined to an arcuate channel, said rotational movement being about a second rotational axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and the first rotational axis, the pin being orthogonal to the longitudinal axis. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises a first gripper and a second gripper, and the rotational movement of the end effector comprises rotation of the first gripper relative to the second gripper. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the arcuate channel for receiving the pin is disposed on the second rod. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the pin is disposed on the second rod. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the pin is coupled to the distal end of the second rod, a translational member supports the arcuate channel, and the moving of the second rod causes pivoting of the translational member about a housing pin connecting the translational member to the housing. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the translational member further comprises a shoulder engaged with a cylindrical rack to cause rotational movement of the first gripper when said second rod is longitudinally moved. 