The invention concerns a self-propelled lawn mower and a method adapted for using said machine. The machine comprises: a mobile frame (1) including at least one drive wheel (6) and at its lower surface at least two juxtaposed cutters (3), associated each with an electric motor; an electronic system for controlling the forward movement of the machine; an on-board computer; an electric power supply; means for measuring the force supplied by each cutter, said measurement being transmitted to the on-board computer; a memorized algorithm for seeking the grass surfaces to be mowed by the interaction of the machine forward movement system, said force measurements and the on-board computer; means for detecting the limits of the surface to be mowed by a magnetic field measurement or the variation of a magnetic field emitted or caused by a set or buried wire, located at said limits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An operating method for a robotic lawn mower which comprises: positioning the mower along a wire delimiting the periphery of the surface area to be mowed, periodically receiving with an on-board computer the measurement of the amplitude of a signal emitted by the peripheral wire, sending commands by the computer to a control system in order to make the mower advance at a constant distance from the aforesaid peripheral wire, evaluating by the computer on the basis of the measurement of the distance the time when a complete round has been effected by the mower along the wire, and controlling through the computer a positioning of the mower at a distance from the aforesaid wire greater than the previous one, the difference being equal too or less than the cutting width. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a random path. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a spiral. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a back and forth systematic mowing, the change of direction being controlled by the level of the signal emitted by the aforesaid wire. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the computer evaluates on the basis of the measurement of the distance combined with a measurement of the changes of direction. 6. Robotic mowing device comprising an on-board computer able to act on an electronic advancement control system said computer being programmed for applying the process of claims 1. 7. Robotic mowing device according to claim 6 characterised in that it comprises at least two cutting heads. 8. Robotic mowing device according to claim 7 characterised in that the two cutting heads are each driven by an independent motor. 9. Device according to claim 7 comprising furthermore a means for measuring the force provided by each cutting head, the aforesaid measurement being transmitted independently to the on-board computer able to act on the electronic advancement control system. 10. Device according to claim 6 further characterised in that it is programmed for applying a mowing process--when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value--based on a random path combined with the measurements of the force registered in at least two cutting heads. 11. Device according to claim 6 wherein the motors are electrical motors. 12. Device according to claim 6 comprising a means for detecting obstacles by relative movement of a plate flexibly mounted on said device. 13. Device according to claim 6 comprising a means for measuring a magnetic field or the variation of a magnetic field emitted or caused by a laid-down or buried wire located at the aforesaid boundaries. 14. Device according to claim 6 including an electric power supply unit which comprises a heat engine generator. 15. Device according to claim 7 wherein the driving wheels have a diameter from 2 to 4 times greater than the other wheels. 16. Device according to claim 6 integrating a magnetic or inertial compass. 17. Device according to claim 6 wherein the cutting heads are flexibly mounted so that ground irregularities can lift each cutting head independently. 18. An operating method for an on-board computer in a robotic lawnmower comprising the steps of: receiving periodically a measurement of the amplitude of a signal emitted by a peripheral wire, sending commands to a control system within said robotic lawnmower in order to make the mower advance at a constant distance from the aforesaid peripheral wire, the lawn being then cut on a defined width, evaluating, on the basis of the measurement of the distance, the time when a complete round has been effected by the mower along the wire, then controlling a positioning of the mower at a distance from the aforesaid wire greater than the previous one. 19. An operating method according to claim 18 wherein the difference in the distance from the wire is equal to or less than the said cutting width. 20. An operating method according to claim 18 wherein the time when a complete round has been effected is also evaluated on the basis of a measurement of the changes of direction. 21. A method according to claim 18 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a random path. 22. A method according to claim 18 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a spiral. 23. A method according to claim 18 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a back and forth systematic mowing, the change of direction being controlled by the level of the signal emitted by the aforesaid wire. 24. A method according to claim 18 wherein the robotic lawnmower has two cutting heads each driven by an independent motor and comprises a means for measuring the force provided by each cutting head, the aforesaid measurement being transmitted independently to the on-board computer and being the basis to operate the electronic advancement control system when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value. 25. A method according to claim 18 wherein the lawnmower further comprises a magnetic or inertial compass. 26. An operating method for an on-board computer in a robotic lawnmower comprising the steps of: receiving periodically the measurement of the amplitude of a signal emitted by the peripheral wire, sending commands to a control system in order to make the mower advance at a constant distance from the aforesaid peripheral wire, the lawn being then cut on a defined width, evaluating, on the basis of the measurement of the change of direction, the time when a complete round has been effected by the mower along the wire, then controlling a positioning of the mower at a distance from the aforesaid wire greater than the previous one. 27. A method according to claim 26 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a random path. 28. A method according to claim 26 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a spiral. 29. A method according to claim 26 wherein, when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value, the computer applies an algorithm based on a back and forth systematic mowing, the change of direction being controlled by the level of the signal emitted by the aforesaid wire. 30. A method according to claim 26 wherein the robotic lawnmower has two cutting heads each driven by an independent motor and comprises a means for measuring the force provided by each cutting head, the aforesaid measurement being transmitted independently to the on-board computer and being the basis to operate the electronic advancement control system when the signal emitted by the wire is of an intensity of less than a reference value. 31. A method according to claim 26 wherein the measurement of the change of direction is performed by integrating the differences in speed between driving wheels operating the lawnmower. 32. An operating method according to claim 26 wherein the difference in the distances from the wire is equal to or less than the said cutting width. 