A method for handling the voltage drop, at least in the control unit of a robot with a PC control is provided that minimizes the time of a plant stoppage and avoids wasteful process interruptions. The PC control has a real time operating system for the time critical control and regulation of the robot movement and a standard PC operating system for communication with an operator. In the case of a voltage drop a battery/accumulator operation takes place with running robot movement and optionally application operations broken off or ended in a clearly defined manner. Then, working processes of the control are terminated. The contents of the working memory at the termination time concerning the real time operating system and robot control programs are stored, particularly as an image, in at least one mass memory. For restarting the robot after such a stoppage thereof the standard PC operating system is loaded in the conventional manner into the working memory and started. The contents relating to the state of the real time operating system and the robot programs in the termination state are transferred from the mass memory or memories, where they are in particular present in image form, into the working memory and the control of the robot and optionally also miscellaneous peripherals, are resumed in the termination state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for handling a control unit voltage drop of a robot with a PC control in which a voltage drop direct current operation takes place, the method comprising the steps of: providing PC control including a time critical control and regulation of the robot movement by a real time operating system and a control of a communication with an operator by a standard PC operating system; and breaking off or stopping in a defined manner one or both of running movement along a predetermined path and ongoing application operations including: stopping robot movement close to the path; subsequent to stopping robot movement terminating working processes of the control; supplying DC voltage using a battery/accumulator; and storing exclusively the contents of a working memory relating to the real time operating system and robot control programs at a termination point as an image of the working memory in a mass memory or mass memories. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: restarting the robot following the stoppage of the robot including: loading the standard PC operating system into the working memory in the conventional manner and staring the standard PC operating system; transferring the contents from the mass memory or memories into the working memory relating to the real time operating system and the robot programs in a termination state for the termination point; and resuming the control of the robot from the termination state. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the image containing the state of the real time operating system and the robot programs is transferred from the mass memory or memories into the working memory. 4. A method according to claim 2, wherein upon restarting the robot the control of miscellaneous process peripherals is resumed from the termination state. 5. A method for handling a control unit voltage drop of a robot with a PC control, the method comprising the steps of: providing PC control including a time critical control and regulation of the robot movement by a real time operating system and a control of a communication with an operator by a standard PC operating system; and breaking off or stopping in a defined manner one or both of running movement along a predetermined path and ongoing application operations including: stopping robot movement by transferring movement corresponding to a predetermined path into a rest state until the motive energy still present is consumed; subsequent to stopping robot movement terminating working processes of the control; supplying DC voltage using a battery/accumulator; and storing the entire contents of a working memory relating to the real time operating system and robot control programs at a termination point providing the contents of the working memory in a mass memory or mass memories relating to the real time operating system and robot control programs for a termination state. 6. A method according to claim 5, further comprising: restarting the robot following the stoppage of the robot including: loading the standard PC operating system into the working memory in the conventional manner and starting the standard PC operating system; transferring the contents from the mass memory or memories into the working memory relating to the real time operating system and the robot programs in the termination state for the termination point; and resuming the control of the robot from the termination state. 