A man-machine interface which provides tactile feedback to various sensing body parts is disclosed. The device employs one or more vibrotactile units, where each unit comprises a mass and a mass-moving actuator. As the mass is accelerated by the mass-moving actuator, the entire vibrotactile unit vibrates. Thus, the vibrotactile unit transmits a vibratory stimulus to the sensing body part to which it is affixed. The vibrotactile unit may be used in conjunction with a spatial placement sensing device which measures the spatial placement of a measured body part. A computing device uses the spatial placement of the measured body part to determine the desired vibratory stimulus to be provided by the vibrotactile unit. In this manner, the computing device may control the level of vibratory feedback perceived by the corresponding sensing body part in response to the motion of the measured body part. The sensing body part and the measured body part may be separate or the same body part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer peripheral connected to a host computer for enabling a user to provide input to a graphical simulation running on said host computer and for providing vibration feedback to said user, said vibration feedback corresponding with displayed interactions within said graphical simulation, said computer peripheral comprising: an analog sensor responsive to manipulation by a user during operation of said computer peripheral; a rotating-mass actuator including a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft, said rotating-mass actuator operative to impart a rotating vector force upon said user, said rotating vector force creating a tactile sensation upon said user that is perceived by said user as one of a vibration, an impulse, and a series of impulses depending upon a speed of rotation and a number of rotations of said mass, said rotating mass actuator capable of providing all of said vibration, impulse, and series of impulses, said speed of rotation and said number of rotations being controlled by a profile of an activating signal provided to said rotating-mass actuator, said activating signal causing said tactile sensation to have a frequency that varies over the duration of said tactile sensation; and a signal processor separate from said host computer, said signal processor connected to said analog sensor and said rotating-mass actuator, said signal processor operative to communicate with said host computer, wherein said signal processor sends information to said host computer including sensor data from said analog sensor, and wherein said signal processor controls said rotating-mass actuator to produce said tactile sensation by generating said activating signal in response to received variable data from said host computer. 2. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said signal processor includes a computer processor. 3. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said displayed interaction is the collision of two virtual objects within said graphical simulation. 4. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said rotating-mass actuator is a first rotating-mass actuator, and further comprising a second rotating-mass actuator, said second rotating-mass actuator controlled by said signal processor in response to data received from said host computer. 5. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 4 wherein said first rotating-mass actuator and said second rotating-mass actuator are controlled simultaneously to produce said tactile sensation felt by said user. 6. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said computer simulation includes a graphical representation of a human body part, wherein the motion of said graphical representation of said human body part is updated in response to changes in data from said analog sensor. 7. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 6 wherein said human body part is a graphical representation of a human hand. 8. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 7 wherein said tactile sensation corresponds with a displayed collision between said graphical representation of said human hand and another displayed graphical object within said graphical simulation. 9. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said rotating-mass actuator is mounted on a compliant spring to amplify said vibration. 10. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said analog sensor is a potentiometer. 11. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said analog sensor is an optical sensor. 12. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said vibration is controlled such that the magnitude of said vibration is varied during said tactile sensation. 13. A computer peripheral as recited in claim 1 wherein said signal processor causes said rotating-mass actuator to generate said series of impulses by repeating pulses of actuation to said actuator. 14. A method of controlling a plurality of rotating mass actuators to provide tactile feedback to a user providing input to a computer simulation, said tactile feedback corresponding with displayed interactions within said computer simulation, said method comprising: providing a plurality of rotating-mass actuators, each of said rotating-mass actuators under electronic control, each of said rotating-mass actuators comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft, each of said rotating-mass actuators imparting a rotating vector force upon said user in response to an activating signal and in coordination with said computer simulation; and enabling control of said plurality of rotating-mass actuators to create in combination a vibration upon said user with an amplitude that is non-uniform over a duration of said vibration. 15. A method of controlling a plurality of rotating mass actuators to provide tactile feedback to a user providing input to a computer simulation, said tactile feedback corresponding with displayed interactions within said computer simulation, said method comprising: providing a plurality of rotating-mass actuators, each of said rotating-mass actuators under electronic control, each of said rotating-mass actuators comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft, each of said rotating-mass actuators imparting a rotating vector force upon said user in response to an activating signal and in coordination with said computer simulation; and enabling activation of said plurality of rotating-mass actuators, each of said rotating-mass actuators rotating with a different frequency profile such that a tactile sensation caused by said actuators is created upon said user with a varying frequency over a duration of said tactile sensation. 16. A method as recited in claim 15 wherein said plurality of actuators are activated in sequence. 17. A method of controlling a plurality of rotating mass actuators to provide tactile feedback to a user providing input to a computer simulation, said tactile feedback corresponding with displayed interactions within said computer simulation, said method comprising: providing a plurality of rotating-mass actuators, each of said rotating-mass actuators under electronic control, each of said rotating-mass actuators comprising a shaft and an eccentric mass mounted on said shaft, each of said rotating-mass actuators imparting a vibration upon said user in response to an activating signal and in coordination with said computer simulation; and enabling activations of said plurality of rotating mass actuators, each of said activations having an amplitude profile different from said other activations to create a tactile sensation upon the user that has a non-uniform amplitude over a duration of said tactile sensation. 18. A method as recited in claim 17 wherein said activations of said rotating mass actuators are sequenced. 