A device for animating a graphical or plastic representation comprises a support for the representation, an animation system for varying the representation and at least one sensor for detecting the presence of a person in a given field of view of the support and for generating a parameter representative of movements and/or gestures of a person in that field. It includes a control system which controls the animation system according to that parameter in response to the detection of a person. It also generates at least one random variable. The control system combines the random variable with the aforementioned parameter to command non-deterministic variations of the representation in response to movements and/or gestures of a detected person.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Device for animating a graphical or plastic representation, comprising support means for said representation, animation means for varying said representation, at least one sensor for detecting the presence of a person in a given field of view of said support means and for generating at least a parameter representative of movements and/or gestures of a person in said field, means for controlling said animation means according to said parameter in response to the detection of a person, and means for generating at least one random variable, wherein said control means include means for combining said random variable with said parameter to command non-deterministic variations of said representation in response to said movements and/or gestures. 2. Device according to claim 1, wherein said sensor includes means for measuring the distance of a detected person from said support means. 3. Device according to claim 1, wherein said sensor is an ultrasound sensor. 4. Device according to claim 1, wherein it includes a plurality of sensors, means for generating a plurality of parameters according to signals delivered by said sensors and means for generating a current state variable of said device according to said parameters and said random variable, said control means controlling said animation means according to said current state variable. 5. Device according to claim 4, wherein said sensors comprise at least one of a brightness sensor and of a sound sensor respectively adapted to measure the ambient brightness and to detect sound in a field in which said device is placed. 6. Device according to claim 4, wherein said control means comprise means for storing a predefined list of state variables, said control means controlling said animation means selectively according to the presence or absence of said current state variable in said list. 7. Device according to claim 6, wherein said control means include means for producing a predefined sequence of animation of said animation means according to said state variable and for selectively modifying the execution of said animation sequence according to at least one random variable. 8. Device according to claim 7, wherein said control means include means for selectively interrupting an animation sequence in progress in response to variation of said state variable. 9. Device according to claim 1, wherein said control means control said animation means according to the time since said animation means were placed in a given configuration. 10. Device according to claim 1, wherein said support means comprise at least one fixed support of a background graphical representation and at least one movable support of a foreground graphical representation and said animation means comprise means for moving said foreground representation movable support relative to said background representation fixed support. 11. Device according to claim 1, wherein said support means comprise a screen for displaying a video image and said animation means include means for processing said video image. 12. System for animating graphical or plastic representations comprising: a plurality of devices for animating graphical or plastic representations, each said device comprising support means for said representation, animation means for varying said representation, at least one sensor for detecting the presence of a person in a given field of view of said support means and for generating a parameter representative of movements and/or gestures of a person in said field, means for controlling said animation means according to said parameter in response to the detection of a person, and means for generating at least one random variable, said control means including means for combining said random variable with said parameter to command non-deterministic variations of said representation in response to said movements and/or gestures, means for enabling communication between said devices, and means for controlling the animation means of at least some of said devices according to the state of the control means of at least one of said devices. 