An exfoliation corrosion detection method which enables rapid detection and evaluation of hidden exfoliation corrosion on aircraft with related cost savings. Pressure exerted on the surface by the laser created plasma generates a pressure pulse or shock wave that propagates into the part. When the stress in the shock wave is above the dynamic elastic limit of the material, the surface material yields plastically. This plastic strain creates compressive residual stresses in the surface, thereby enabling detection of exfoliation corrosion, if present.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting exfoliation corrosion on a surface comprising the steps of: defining an area on the surface for corrosion inspection; applying an overlay to the surface of said area; projecting a laser beam on a portion of said area, said laser beam forming a laser spot and generating a pressure pulse and resulting compressive residual stresses; and examining the area of said surface for evidence of exfoliation corrosion. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said overlay is transparent to said laser beam. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprised of applying a second overlay wherein said second overlay is opaque. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said opaque overlay is tape. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said opaque overlay is paint. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said area for inspection is a machined edge of the surface. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said area for inspection is made of aluminum, said aluminum includes one of a hole or machined edge. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said laser beam generates a power density from 0.5 to 9 GW/cm.sup.2. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said laser beam source is fired at a rate of 1 to 100 hertz. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of said laser spots are applied in a series of concentric shapes. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said laser beam spot is formed in one of an elliptical shape or spiral shape. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said laser beam spot is formed in a circular shape. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said laser beam spot is formed in a square shape. 14. A method for detecting exfoliation corrosion on a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: defining a first area on the workpiece for surface corrosion inspection; applying a transparent and opaque overlay to said area; projecting a laser beam on a second area on the workpiece, said laser beam forming a laser spot and generating a pressure pulse and resulting compressive residual stresses on an area of said surface; examining said first area of said surface for evidence of exfoliation corrosion; and removing said exfoliation corrosion once detected. 15. A method for detecting exfoliation corrosion on a surface comprising the steps of: defining an area on said surface for surface corrosion analysis; applying a transparent and opaque overlay to the surface of said area; projecting a laser beam on said surface, said laser beam forming a laser beam spot and generating a pressure pulse and resulting compressive residual stresses on said surface; examining said area of said surface for evidence of exfoliation corrosion; and moving the laser beam along the surface of the part being pulsed. 16. The method in claim 15, wherein moving said laser beam along the surface is performed by a robot. 17. The method in claim 16, wherein said robot is successively indexed from a first area where exfoliation corrosion may exist to a second area where exfoliation corrosion may exist. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprised of directing the said laser beam to provide a plurality of laser beam spots within said area. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said plurality of said laser beam spots is applied in a specific pattern in said area. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said examining area of said surface for evidence of said exfoliation corrosion is performed with an optical imaging system. 21. The method of claim 14, further comprised of repeating said steps until the exfoliation corrosion is removed. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein said steps are sequentially activated by a controller. 