The invention is directed to manipulator assembly (2) for holding and manipulating a surgical instrument (14) in a telerobotic system. The assembly comprises a base (6) by fixable by means of passive or power driven positioning devices to a surface, such as an operating table, and an instrument holder (4) movably mounted on the base. The instrument holder comprises a chassis (6) and an instrument support (70) movably mounted on the body and having an interface engageable with the surgical instrument to releasably mount the instrument to the instrument holder. A drive assembly (7) is operatively coupled to the instrument holder for providing the instrument with at least two degrees of freedom. The instrument holder is separable from the base and the drive assembly so that the holder can be sterilized. The assembly further includes a force sensing element (52) mounted distal to the holder and the drive assembly for detecting forces exerted on the surgical instrument and providing feedback to the surgeon. The assembly is attached to a remote center positioner (300) for constraining the instrument to rotate about a point coincident with the entry incision and an inclinometer (350) for preventing gravitational forces acting on the system's mechanisms from being felt by the surgeon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a proximal portion, a distal portion, an inner lumen, and at least one axially extending slot; an end effector disposed adjacent the distal portion of the elongate shaft; and an actuator assembly comprising a linkage disposed within the inner lumen and a movable actuator pin laterally extending from the linkage and extending through the axially extending slot to releasably couple the actuator assembly to a driver of a robotic surgical instrument holder. 2. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the end effector is coupled to the elongate shaft with a wrist. 3. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein axial displacement of the actuator assembly actuates the end effector. 4. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein said end effector includes jaws that are movable between an open position where the jaws are disposed apart and a closed position where the jaws are disposed closer together. 5. The surgical instrument of claim 3 wherein the end effector comprises first and second jaws, wherein the first and second jaws are both moveable. 6. The surgical instrument of claim 5 wherein the actuator assembly further includes a hinge connecting the linkage to said first and second jaws such that axial movement of the actuator pin causes the jaws to move between the open and closed positions. 7. The surgical instrument of claim 3 wherein said instrument further comprises means for biasing said jaws towards the closed position. 8. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the elongate shaft includes a pair of opposed axially extending slots and the actuator pin extends laterally through the pair of slots. 9. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the actuator pins are releasably received within an aperture in the driver. 10. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the driver is coupled to the instrument holder. 11. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the actuator pin is releasably received by an aperture of the instrument holder. 12. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein the end effector is coupled to the elongate shaft through a plurality of joints. 13. A surgical instrument for use with a robotic arm having an instrument holder, the surgical instrument comprising: an elongate body comprising a first end, a second end, and a longitudinal inner lumen extending at least partially between the first end and second end; an end effector disposed adjacent the first end; and an actuation assembly comprising a rod positioned within the inner lumen, wherein a first end of the rod is coupled to the end effector and a second end of the rod comprises an actuation interface that can be releasably coupled to the instrument holder; wherein longitudinal movement of the actuation interface moves the end effector. 14. The surgical instrument of claim 13 wherein the end effector comprises jaws, wherein longitudinal movement of the actuation interface and the rod moves the jaws between an open position and a closed position. 15. A surgical instrument of claim 13 wherein the end effector is coupled to the elongate body with a wrist. 16. A surgical instrument for use with a robotic arm having an instrument holder, the surgical instrument comprising: an elongate body comprising a first end, a second end, and a longitudinal inner lumen extending at least partially between the first end and second end; an end effector disposed adjacent the first end; and an actuation assembly comprising a rod positioned within the inner lumen, wherein a first end of the rod is coupled to the end effector and a second end of the rod comprises an actuation interface that can be releasably coupled to the instrument holder; wherein longitudinal movement of the actuation interface moves the end effector; wherein the actuation interface comprises actuation pins that are disposed substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal lumen. 17. A surgical instrument for use with a robotic arm having an instrument holder, the surgical instrument comprising: an elongate body comprising a first end, a second end, and a longitudinal inner lumen extending at least partially between the first end and second end; an end effector disposed adjacent the first end; and an actuation assembly comprising a rod positioned within the inner lumen, wherein a first end of the rod is coupled to the end effector and a second end of the rod comprises an actuation interface that can be releasably coupled to the instrument holder; wherein longitudinal movement of the actuation interface moves the end effector; wherein the actuation interface comprises actuation pins that are disposed substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal lumen, wherein the elongate body comprises slots, wherein the actuation pins extend through the slots. 18. A surgical instrument for use with a robotic arm having an instrument holder, the surgical instrument comprising: an elongate body comprising a first end, a second end, and a longitudinal inner lumen extending at least partially between the first end and second end; an end effector disposed adjacent the first end; and an actuation assembly comprising a rod positioned within the inner lumen, wherein a first end of the rod is coupled to the end effector and a second end of the rod comprises an actuation interface that can be releasably coupled to the instrument holder; wherein longitudinal movement of the actuation interface moves the end effector; wherein the end effector comprises jaws, wherein longitudinal movement of the actuation interface and the rod moves the jaws between an open position and a closed position; and a spring positioned within the inner lumen to bias the jaws in a closed position. 