Multiple pulses of narrow band signals of varying frequency are detected by multiple spaced apart receivers such that average time difference of arrivals of the signals from an item to be located are determined. The average time differences are used to calculate a position of the item to be located with a desired accuracy, such as within one meter in one embodiment. One of multiple receivers or rangers initiates a location process by transmitting a sync pulse. The sync pulse is received by a scout and other rangers. The scout is a small robot which acts as a transponder, sending out its own narrow band return pulse in response to the sync pulse. Each ranger then determines a difference in time between the sync pulse it receives and the return pulse generated by the scout. The location process is then repeated again at different selected narrow band frequencies, and an average of the difference in time at each ranger is determined. Each ranger is networked together via a standard wireless network, and also obtains position information via standard GPS methods. An iterative calculation of the location of the scout is used to improve an estimated position solution. Time difference of arrival between two rangers is expressed as an equation with three unknown variables, x, y and z, which define a position of the scout in three dimensional space. The locus of a point that satisfies this equation is hyperbolic. The iterative calculation uses a least squares approach to improve the estimated position to within a required tolerance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting the location of an item (115), the method comprising: determining multiple time difference of arrivals of pulses (140) and response pulses (145) from the item to be located as received by multiple receivers (120, 125, 130 and 135); averaging the multiple time difference of arrivals (340); and iteratively solving for the location of the item until within a desired tolerance (340, 610, 615, 620, 625, 630 and 635). 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the multiple time difference of arrivals are based on different frequency pulses. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the multiple time difference of arrivals are based on moving the receivers between selected pulses. 4. The method of claim 1 and further comprising determining the location of the receivers. 5. A method of detecting the location of an item, the method comprising: sending a plurality of sync pulses from a predetermined one of a plurality of receivers; sending response pulses from the item after receipt of sync pulses; receiving the sync pulses and response pulses at each receiver; determining multiple average time differences of arrival between selected receivers; determining a location of each receiver; and determining the location of the item based on the time differences of arrival and location of the receivers. 6. A method of detecting the location of an item, the method comprising: sending a plurality of sync pulses at different frequencies from a predetermined one of a plurality of receivers; sending response pulses at such different frequencies from the item after receipt of sync pulses; receiving the sync pulses and response pulses at each receiver; determining multiple average time differences of arrival between selected receivers; determining a location of each receiver; and determining the location of the item based on the time differences of arrival and location of the receivers. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the location of the item is estimated, and variations in the estimate are iteratively minimized to within a desired tolerance. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the time differences of arrival are determined between at least four receivers. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the location of each receiver is provided by GPS. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein one of the receivers receives time of arrival information from the other receivers, and determines the location of the item. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein a wireless local area network is used to communicate between receivers. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the time of arrival information is based on the difference in time between the sync and response pulses, and results in a cancellation of clock errors when converted to time difference of arrivals. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein the iterative solution is based on Newton's method. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein each iteration provides a difference between the estimated position and a difference determined from the time difference of arrival information, wherein the difference is compared to the desired tolerance and added to the estimate for the next iteration if not within tolerance. 15. A system for detecting the location of an item, the system comprising: means for determining multiple time difference of arrivals of pulses from the item to be located as received by multiple receivers; means for averaging the multiple time difference of arrivals; and means for iteratively solving for the location of the item until within a desired tolerance. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the item comprises a transponder that receives sync pulses and transmits pulses in response thereto. 17. A system for detecting the location of an item, the system comprising: means for sending a plurality of sync pulses at different frequencies from a predetermined one of a plurality of receivers; means for sending response pulses at such different frequencies from the item after receipt of sync pulses; means for receiving the sync pulses and response pulses at each receiver; means for determining multiple average time differences of arrival between selected receivers; means for determining a location of each receiver; and means for determining the location of the item based on the time differences of arrival and location of the receivers. 18. A system for detecting the location of an item, the system comprising: a reference ranger that sends a plurality of sync pulses at different frequencies; a scout that sends a response pulses at such different frequencies after receipt of sync pulses; a plurality of rangers that receive the sync pulses and response pulses and provide position information to the reference ranger; the reference ranger determining multiple average time differences of arrival between selected rangers and determining the location of the scout based on the time differences of arrival and location of the receivers. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the reference ranger is one of the plurality of rangers. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein the response pulses are narrowband based pulses. 21. The system of claim 18 wherein the reference ranger comprises a processor for iteratively solving for the position of the scout based on the time differences of arrival derived from at least four rangers. 22. The system of claim 18 wherein the reference ranger is coupled to the plurality of rangers by a wireless local area network. 23. A method of detecting the location of an item, the method comprising: sending a plurality of sync pulses from at least one of a plurality of receivers; sending response pulses from the item after receipt of sync pulses; receiving the response pulses; determining multiple average time differences of arrival of response pulses between selected receivers; determining a location of each receiver; and determining the location of the item based on the time differences of arrival and location of the receivers. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein each receiver sends its own sync pulses. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein the response pulses have a frequency different than that of corresponding sync pulses. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein an item acts as a receiver after its location has been determined. 27. A system for detecting the location of an item, the system comprising: a plurality of rangers, at least one of which sends a plurality of sync pulses at different frequencies; a scout that sends response pulses at different frequencies after receipt of sync pulses; a plurality of rangers that receive response pulses and provide time difference of arrival information; means for determining multiple average time differences of arrival between selected rangers and determining the location of the scout based on the time differences of arrival and location of the receivers. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein each receiver sends its own sync pulses. 29. The system of claim 23 wherein the response pulses have a frequency different than that of corresponding sync pulses. 30. The system of claim 23 wherein a scout is capable of acting as a ranger after its location has been determined to determine the location of a further scout. 