A signature recognition system for identifying an article with a distinctive diffraction element (or elements) and verifying the presence of that element or elements comprising: an article with one or more diffraction gratings impressed thereon, the grating(s) exhibiting periodic wave surface profiles having a depth-to-pitch ratio .delta. of between 0.1 and 0.5, a source of polarized electromagnetic radiation of wavelength .lambda. such that the pitch G of the periodic wave surface profile of the grating(s) is comparable to an integer multiple n of that wavelength, a device for directing the source of polarized electromagnetic radiation to the surface of the grating(s) at a plane of incidence substantially normal to the plane of the surface of the diffraction grating and at an angle of approximately 45.degree. azimuth to the alignment of the grooves on the surface, and a device for detecting radiation reflected from the grating(s) surface which is oppositely polarized to the incident radiation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A signature recognition system for identifying an article with at least one distinctive diffractive element and verifying the presence of said element comprising: an article with at least one diffraction grating impressed thereon, the grating exhibiting periodic wave surface profiles having a depth-to-pitch ratio .delta. of between 0.1 and 0.5, a source of polarised electromagnetic radiation of wavelength .lambda. such that the pitch G of the periodic wave surface profile of the grating is comparable to an integer multiple n of that wavelength, means for directing the source of polarised electromagnetic radiation to the surface of the grating at a plane of incidence substantially normal to the plane of the surface of the diffraction grating and at an angle of approximately 45.degree. azimuth to the alignment of the grooves on the surface, and means for detecting radiation reflected from the grating surface which is oppositely polarised to the incident radiation. 2. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the source of polarised electromagnetic radiation is circularly polarised. 3. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the source of polarised radiation is plane polarised. 4. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein a series of gratings with surface profiles of similar dimension are spaced apart at intervals to form an identifiable pattern. 5. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the gratings are of differing width. 6. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the source of electromagnetic radiation is light. 7. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein a series of gratings with surface profiles of differing dimensions are impressed on the article and the source of electromagnetic radiation is polychromatic. 8. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 7 wherein the gratings are of differing length. 9. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the article is a credit card or security identification card. 10. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the wave surface profile is a sine wave. 11. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the grating surface is coated with a dielectric material. 12. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the grating surface has a depth to pitch ratio of between 0.1 and 0.3. 13. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the grating surface has a depth to pitch ratio of between 0.3 and 0.5. 14. A signature recognition system for identifying an article with a distinctive diffractive element (or elements) and verifying the presence of that element or elements comprising: an article with one or more diffraction gratings impressed thereon, the grating(s) exhibiting periodic wave surface profiles having a depth-to-pitch ratio .delta. of between 0.1 and 0.5, a source of polarised electromagnetic radiation of wavelength .lambda. such that the pitch G of the periodic wave surface profile of the grating(s) is comparable to an integer multiple n of that wavelength, means for directing the source of polarised electromagnetic radiation to the surface of the grating(s) at a plane of incidence substantially normal to the plane of the surface of the diffraction grating and at an angle of approximately 45.degree. azimuth to the alignment of the grooves on the surface, and means for detecting radiation reflected from the grating(s) surface which is oppositely polarised to the incident radiation, wherein a series of gratings with surface profiles of differing dimensions are impressed on the article and the source of electromagnetic radiation is polychromatic, wherein the gratings are spaced apart at intervals to form an identifiable pattern. 15. A signature recognition system for identifying an article with a distinctive diffractive element (or elements) and verifying the presence of that element or elements comprising: an article with one or more diffraction gratings impressed thereon, the grating(s) exhibiting periodic wave surface profiles having a depth-to-pitch ratio .delta. of between 0.1 and 0.5, a source of polarised electromagnetic radiation of wavelength .lambda. such that the pitch G of the periodic wave surface profile of the grating(s) is comparable to an integer multiple n of that wavelength, means for directing the source of polarised electromagnetic radiation to the surface of the grating(s) at a plane of incidence substantially normal to the plane of the surface of the diffraction grating and at an angle of approximately 45.degree. azimuth to the alignment of the grooves on the surface, and means for detecting radiation reflected from the grating(s) surface which is oppositely polarised to the incident radiation, wherein the article comprises a track and the detector comprises a robotic vehicle programmed to follow the track. 16. A signature recognition system for identifying an article with a distinctive diffractive element (or elements) and verifying the presence of that element or elements comprising: an article with one or more diffraction gratings impressed thereon, the grating(s) exhibiting periodic wave surface profiles having a depth-to-pitch ratio .delta. of between 0.1 and 0.5, a source of polarised electromagnetic radiation of wavelength .lambda. such that the pitch G of the periodic wave surface profile of the grating(s) is comparable to an integer multiple n of that wavelength, means for directing the source of polarised electromagnetic radiation to the surface of the grating(s) at a plane of incidence substantially normal to the plane of the surface of the diffraction grating and at an angle of approximately 45.degree. azimuth to the alignment of the grooves on the surface, and means for detecting radiation reflected from the grating(s) surface which is oppositely polarised to the incident radiation, wherein the article comprises road side barrier devices and the detector comprises a road vehicle. 17. A signature recognition system as claimed in claim 16 wherein the source of electromagnetic radiation is in the microwave range. 