Manufacturing lines include inspection systems for monitoring the quality of parts produced. Manufacturing lines for making semiconductor devices generally inspect each fabricated part. The information obtained is used to fix manufacturing problems in the semiconductor fab plant. A machine-vision system for inspecting devices includes a light source for propagating light to the device and an image detector that receives light from the device. The devices, such as semiconductors, are placed in trays for inspection at one or more inspection stations. A compartment for holding a plurality of trays is positioned near a first inspection station having a first inspection surface. An elevator elevates one of the trays from the compartment and presents the tray and the devices held by the tray to the first inspection surface. After being inspected at a first station, a tray-transfer device moves the tray from the first inspection station to a flipper mechanism. The flipper mechanism includes two jaws and a rotator. The flipper mechanism turns the devices over and places the devices in a second tray so that another surface of the device can be inspected. A second tray-transfer device moves the second tray from the flipper to a second inspection station. If a device in the tray fails inspection, a picker removes that bad device from the tray and replaces it with a device that previously passed inspection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine-vision head for inspecting a device, comprising: (a) a first illumination source that provides projected patterned illumination on the device useful to obtain 3D geometric information about the device; (b) a second illumination light source that provides substantially unpatterned illumination on the device; and (c) an imager, wherein the imager has a reception optical axis that intersects the device when the machine-vision head is in operation, and wherein the imager includes at least three substantially parallel rows of semiconductor imaging pixels positioned to receive illumination shone onto the device by the first and second illumination sources. 2. The machine-vision head of claim 1, further comprising a projection pattern element as part of the first illumination source that is maintained in a substantially fixed relationship to both the first illumination source and the imager when the machine-vision head is in operation. 3. The machine-vision head of claim 1, wherein the first illumination source and the second illumination source are activated alternately, such that the first illumination source illuminates the device on a first scan but not a second scan of the device, and the second illumination source illuminates the device on the second scan but not the first scan of the device. 4. The machine-vision head of claim 1, wherein the first illumination source and the second illumination source are activated alternately, such that the first illumination source illuminates the device on a first cycle but not a second cycle within a first scan of the device, and the second illumination source illuminates the device on the second cycle but not the first cycle within the first scan of the device. 5. The machine-vision head of claim 1, wherein the imager further includes a telecentric imaging element that focusses an image of the device onto the at least three rows of semiconductor imaging pixels. 6. A machine-vision head for inspecting a device, comprising: (a) a first illumination source that provides projected patterned illumination on the device useful to obtain 3D geometric information about the device; (b) a second illumination light source that provides substantially unpatterned illumination on the device; and (c) an imager, wherein the imager has a reception optical axis that intersects the device when the machine-vision head is in operation, and wherein the imager includes at least three substantially parallel rows of semiconductor imaging pixels positioned to receive illumination shone onto the device by the first and second illumination sources, wherein the first illumination source comprises: a light source, the light source providing light propagating generally along a projection optical axis, the projection optical axis intersecting the device when the machine-vision head is in operation; a projection-pattern element that spatially modulates the light and located so that the projection optical axis intersects the projection pattern element; and a projection-pattern-imaging element located so that the projection optical axis intersects the projection-pattern-imaging element. 7. The machine-vision head of claim 6, wherein the pattern projection element comprises a light-intensity-modulation pattern including a repeating pattern of grid lines having substantially constant light-intensity-modulation along lines in a direction parallel to the grid lines and a sine-wave light-intensity-modulation along a plurality of lines in a direction perpendicular to the grid lines. 8. The machine-vision head of claim 6, wherein the pattern projection element includes a pattern of lines whose intensity along a perpendicular line segment varies as a series of pulses. 9. The machine-vision head of claim 6, wherein the projection-pattern-imaging element includes a telecentric imaging element that focusses an image of projection pattern element onto the device. 10. The machine-vision head of claim 6, wherein the first illumination source further includes a projection mask to constrain a transverse dimension of the projected illumination substantially smaller than as provided by the projection-pattern element. 11. A machine-vision system for inspecting a device, comprising: (1) an inspection station, the inspection station including: (a) a first illumination source that provides projected patterned illumination on the device that is useful to obtain 3D geometric information about the device; (b) a second illumination light source that provides substantially unpatterned illumination on the device; (c) an imager, wherein the imager has a reception optical axis, the reception optical axis intersecting the device when the machine-vision head is in operation, wherein the imager includes at least three substantially parallel rows of semiconductor imaging pixels positioned to receive illumination shone onto the device by the first and second illumination sources; and (2) a scanner mechanism that moves the imager relative to the device such that different portions of the device are successively imaged by the imager, wherein the first light source is activated in conjunction with the imager to obtain three-dimensional device geometry data regarding the device; and (3) a comparator coupled to the imager, the comparator comparing one or more characteristics of the acquired three-dimensional device geometry data with an intended predetermined geometry to produce a signal indicative of any device geometry departure of an actual device geometry from the intended predetermined geometry. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the projection pattern element is maintained in a substantially fixed relationship to both the first illumination source and the imager when the machine-vision head is in operation. 13. The system according to claim 11, wherein the first illumination source and the second illumination source are activated alternately, such that the first illumination source illuminates the device on a first scan but not a second scan of the device, and the second illumination source illuminates the device on the second scan but not the first scan of the device. 14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the first illumination source and the second illumination source are activated alternately, such that the first illumination source illuminates the device on a first cycle but not a second cycle within a first scan of the device, and the second illumination source illuminates the device on the second cycle but not the first cycle within the first scan of the device. 15. The system according to claim 11, wherein the imager further includes a telecentric imaging element that focusses an image of the device onto the at least three lines of semiconductor imaging pixels. 16. The system according to claim 11, wherein the imager further includes an imaging mask to constrain a transverse dimension of observed illumination. 17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the first illumination device provides a repeating pattern of sine-wave stripes, and includes a projection mask, and wherein the projection mask limits the projected light to less than about three sine-wave cycles of the sine-wave pattern. 18. The system according to claim 11, further comprising a light-intensity controller, coupled to receive intensity information regarding light output from the first illumination source, that outputs a control signal based on a measured intensity of light from the first illumination source, wherein the control signal is operatively coupled to the imager to control an amount of light received in an imaging cycle of the imager. 19. The system according to claim 11, further comprising a light-intensity controller, coupled to receive intensity information regarding light output from the second illumination source, that outputs a control signal based on a measured intensity of light from the second illumination source, wherein the control signal is operatively coupled to the imager to control an amount of light received in an imaging cycle of the imager. 20. The system according to claim 11, wherein the first illumination source includes a projection-imaging element and a projection-pattern element, and wherein a major plane of the projection-imaging element is oriented substantially perpendicular to the projection optical axis and a major plane of the projection-pattern element is oriented substantially perpendicular to the projection optical axis. 21. The system according to claim 11, wherein the first illumination source includes a projection-imaging element and a projection-pattern element, and wherein a major plane of the projection-imaging element is angled to intersect a major plane of the projection-pattern element at a line. 22. The system according to claim 11, wherein the first illumination source includes a projection-imaging element and a projection-pattern element, and wherein a major plane of the projection-imaging element is angled to intersect a major plane of the projection-pattern element at a line, and the optical axis of the imager intersects the line of intersection. 23. The system according to claim 11, wherein the imager further includes an imaging mask located between the device and the imager to constrain a transverse dimension of observed illumination. 24. The system according to claim 23, wherein the projection mask provides a repeating pattern of sine-wave stripes, and wherein the projection mask limits the projected light to less than about three sine-wave cycles of the sine-wave-pattern. 25. A machine-vision system for inspecting a device, comprising: (1) an inspection station, the inspection station including: (a) a first illumination source that provides projected patterned illumination on the device that is useful to obtain 3D geometric information about the device; (b) a second illumination light source that provides substantially unpatterned illumination on the device; (c) an imager, wherein the imager has a reception optical axis, the reception optical axis intersecting the device when the machine-vision head is in operation, wherein the imager includes at least three substantially parallel rows of semiconductor imaging pixels positioned to receive illumination shone onto the device by the first and second illumination sources; and (2) a scanner mechanism that moves the imager relative to the device such that different portions of the device are successively imaged by the imager, wherein the first light source is activated in conjunction with the imager to obtain three-dimensional device geometry data regarding the device; and (3) a comparator coupled to the imager, the comparator comparing one or more characteristics of the acquired three-dimensional device geometry data with an intended predetermined geometry to produce a signal indicative of any device geometry departure of an actual device geometry from the intended predetermined geometry, wherein the first illumination source comprises: a light source, the light source providing light propagating generally along a projection optical axis, the projection optical axis intersecting the device when the machine-vision head is in operation; a projection-pattern element that spatially modulates the light and located so that the projection optical axis intersects the projection pattern element; and a projection-pattern-imaging element located so that the projection optical axis intersects the projection-pattern-imaging element. 26. The system according to claim 25, wherein the pattern projection element comprises a light-intensity-modulation pattern including a repeating pattern of grid lines having substantially constant light-intensity-modulation along lines in a direction parallel to the grid lines and a sine-wave light-intensity-modulation along a plurality of lines in a direction perpendicular to the grid lines. 27. The system according to claim 25, wherein the pattern projection element includes a pattern whose intensity along a line segment varies as a series of pulses. 28. The system according to claim 25, wherein the projection-pattern-imaging element includes a telecentric imaging element that focusses an image of projection pattern element onto the device. 29. The system according to claim 25, wherein the first illumination source further includes a projection mask to constrain a transverse dimension of the projected illumination substantially smaller than as provided by the projection-pattern element. 30. The system according to claim 25, further comprising a projection mask having an elongated aperture having a dimension along a length axis substantially longer than a dimension along a width axis perpendicular to the length axis, and wherein the length axis is substantially parallel to the grid lines of the projection-pattern element. 31. A method for measuring a two-dimensional and a three-dimensional geometry of a device having a surface to be measured, comprising: (a) projecting patterned light that has a spatial-modulation pattern, and imaging the spatial-modulation patterned light onto the device; (b) scanning the device within the spatial-modulation patterned light to create a first reflected light; (c) receiving the first reflected light into at least three linear imager regions and generating a resulting first set of image data; (d) deriving three-dimensional height information from the first set of image data; (e) projecting substantially unpatterned light onto the device to create a second reflected light; (f) scanning the device with the at least three linear imager regions; and (g) receiving the second reflected light into at least one of the at least three linear imager regions and generating a resulting second set of image data. 32. The method according to claim 31, wherein the spatially modulation pattern includes a repeating pattern of grid lines having substantially constant density along lines in a direction parallel to the grid lines and a sine-wave density along lines in a direction perpendicular to the grid lines. 33. A method for measuring a two-dimensional and a three-dimensional geometry of a device having a surface to be measured, comprising: (a) projecting patterned light that has a spatial-modulation pattern, and imaging the spatial-modulation patterned light onto the device; (b) scanning the device within the spatial-modulation patterned light to create a first reflected light; (c) receiving the first reflected light into at least three linear imager regions and generating a resulting first set of image data; (d) deriving three-dimensional height information from the first set of image data; (e) projecting substantially unpatterned light onto the device to create a second reflected light; (f) scanning the device with the at least three linear imager regions; and (g) receiving the second reflected light into at least one of the at least three linear imager regions and generating a resulting second set of image data, wherein the spatially modulation pattern includes a repeating pattern of grid lines having substantially constant density along lines in a direction parallel to the grid lines and a sine-wave density along lines in a direction perpendicular to the grid lines, and further comprising projection masking to an elongated aperture having a length axis substantially greater that a width axis, and wherein the length axis is substantially parallel to the grid lines of the pattern. 34. The method according to claim 33, wherein the projection masking limits the projected light to less than about three sine-wave cycles of the sine-wave pattern. 35. The method according to claim 31, further comprising generating a light-intensity control signal based on intensity information regarding the projected light. 36. The method according to claim 35, further comprising controlling an imager to control an amount of light received in an imaging cycle of the imager. 37. The method according to claim 31, wherein projecting patterned light (a) and projecting substantially unpatterned light (e) are performed on an interleaved basis on successive scan operations. 38. The method according to claim 31, wherein projecting patterned light (a) and projecting substantially unpatterned light (e) are performed on an interleaved basis within a single scan operation in one direction. 39. The method according to claim 31, wherein the receiving reflected light (g) is performed into at least three of the at least three linear imager regions such that image information is obtained in a non-redundant interleaved fashion. 40. The method according to claim 31, further comprising (h) generating a resulting contiguous set of image data representing a two-dimensional array of light intensity of reflected light from the device. 41. The method according to claim 40, wherein projecting patterned light (a) and projecting substantially unpatterned light (e) are performed on an interleaved basis on successive scan operations. 42. A method for measuring a two-dimensional image of a device, comprising: (a) projecting light onto the device; (b) scanning the device within the projected light to create a first reflected light; (c) receiving the first reflected light into at least three linear imager regions and generating a resulting first set of image data; (d) deriving three-dimensional height information from the first set of image data; (e) projecting light onto the device to create a second reflected light; (f) scanning the device with the at least three linear imager regions; (g) receiving the second reflected light into at least one of the at least three linear imager regions; and (h) generating a resulting contiguous set of image data representing a two-dimensional array of light intensity of reflected light from the device. 43. The method according to claim 42, wherein the projecting light (e) comprises (e1) projecting substantially unpatterned light. 44. The method according to claim 43, wherein the projecting substantially unpatterned light source (e1) includes projecting a elongated light beam, wherein a longitudinal axis of the beam is perpendicular to the direction of projection and parallel to a long axis of the at least three linear imager regions. 45. The method according to claim 43, further comprising projection masking to an elongated aperture having a length axis substantially greater that a width axis, and wherein the length axis is substantially parallel to a long axis of the at least three linear imager regions. 46. The method according to claim 45, wherein the receiving the second reflected light (g) comprises receiving into at least three of the at least three linear imager regions, and wherein the generating (h) comprises ordering data from the at least three linear imager regions into successive lines of data representing a contiguous image. 47. The method according to claim 46, wherein the generating (h) further comprises delaying data from a first of the at least three linear imager regions by a first amount, and delaying data from a second of the at least three linear imager regions by a second amount different than the first amount. 