A method for transferring airplanes and an unmanned airplane transfer system. The airplane transferring system includes: receiving a transfer signal responsive of a movement of an airplane control component; and transferring an airplane, by an unmanned airplane transfer system, in response to the transfer signal.
Claims We claim: 1. An unmanned airplane transfer system, comprising: a transfer module configured for the transfer of an airplane by firmly gripping a nose landing gear of the airplane, the transfer module comprising a skid steering arrangement configured to rotate the transfer module; and a controller coupled to the transfer module, adapted to control steering of the transfer module in response to steering control signals associated with rotational movement of the nose landing gear induced by steering of the airplane; wherein in response to said rotational movement of the nose landing gear, the controller is configured to induce rotation of the transfer module by the skid steering arrangement, to align the transfer module with the rotated nose landing gear. 2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a sensor configured to sense steering control induced movements of the landing gear, and to provide the controller said steering control signals. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein the system is configured to control a velocity of the airplane in response to velocity commands from a pilot of the airplane. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to be remotely controlled. 5. The system according to claim 1 wherein the unmanned airplane transfer system comprises an audio interface configured to receive modulated signals representative of steering commands from the airplane and to send these modulated signals to the controller, and wherein the controller is further configured to control the transfer module in response to the audio commands. 6. The system according to claim 1, further comprising location sensors coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is further configured to control the transfer module in response to a location of the system. 7. The system according to claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to sense a system failure and in response to detach the system from the airplane. 8. The system according to claim 1 wherein the controller is coupled to a manual control module and is further configured to control the transfer module in response to commands provided by the manual control module. 9. A method for transferring an airplane, the method comprising: providing a transfer module configured for the transfer of the airplane by firmly gripping a nose landing gear of the airplane, the transfer module comprising a skid steering arrangement configured to rotate the transfer module; receiving, by a controller coupled to the transfer module, steering control signals associated with rotational movement of the nose landing gear induced by steering of the airplane; controlling the steering of the transfer module, by the controller, in response to the steering control signals; and inducing, by the controller, rotation of the transfer module by the skid steering arrangement, in response to the rotational movement of the nose land gear, thereby aligning the transfer module with the rotated nose landing gear. 10. The method according to claim 7 wherein the receiving comprises receiving velocity commands from the pilot of the airplane. 11. The method according to claim 7 wherein the transferring is further responsive to remotely transmitted commands. 12. The method according to claim 7 further comprising receiving audio commands. 13. The method according to claim 7 further comprising determining a location of the airplane and wherein the transferring is responsive to the sensed location. 14. The method according to claim 7 further comprising detecting an obstacle and providing an obstacle indication. 15. The method according to claim 7 further comprising receiving commands from an operator and wherein the transferring is responsive to the commands received from the operator. 16. The system according to claim 1, said transfer module comprising: a landing gear holder configured to firmly grip a nose landing gear of the airplane and pivotally coupled to a structural element of the transfer module so as to rotate together with said nose landing gear during steering of the airplane. 17. An unmanned airplane transfer system, comprising: a transfer module configured for the transfer of an airplane, said transfer module comprising: a landing gear holder configured to firmly grip a nose landing gear of the airplane and pivotally coupled to a structural element of the transfer module so as to rotate together with said nose landing gear during steering of the airplane; and a skid steering arrangement configured to rotate the transfer module; and a controller coupled to the transfer module, adapted to control steering of the transfer module in response to steering control signals associated with rotational movement of the landing gear holder induced by steering of the airplane; wherein in response to said rotational movement of the landing gear holder, the controller is configured to induce rotation of the transfer module by said skid steering arrangement, to align said transfer module with the rotated nose landing gear being gripped by said landing gear holder. 18. The system according to claim 17 further comprising a sensor configured to sense steering control induced movements of the landing gear, and to provide the controller said steering control signals. 19. The system according to claim 17 wherein the system is configured to control a velocity of the airplane in response to velocity commands from the pilot of the airplane. 20. The system according to claim 17 wherein the controller is coupled to a manual control module and is further configured to control the transfer module in response to commands provided by the manual control module. 21. An unmanned airplane transfer system, comprising: a transfer module configured for the transfer of an airplane by firmly gripping a nose landing gear of the airplane; and a controller coupled to the transfer module, adapted to control steering of the transfer module in response to steering control signals associated with rotational movement of the nose landing gear induced by steering of the airplane; wherein in response to said rotational movement of the nose landing gear, the controller is configured to induce rotation of the transfer module, to align said transfer module with the rotated nose landing gear. 22. The system according to claim 21, further comprising a skid steering arrangement configured to rotate the transfer module; wherein in response to said rotational movement of the nose landing gear, the controller is configured to induce rotation of the transfer module by said skid steering arrangement, to align said transfer module with the rotated nose landing gear. 23. The system according to claim 21 further comprising a sensor configured to sense steering control induced movements of the landing gear, and to provide the controller said steering control signals. 24. The system according to claim 21 wherein the system is configured to control a velocity of the airplane in response to velocity commands from the pilot of the airplane. 25. The system according to claim 21 wherein the controller is further configured to be remotely controlled. 26. The system according to claim 21 wherein the unmanned airplane transfer system comprises an audio interface configured to receive modulated signals representative of steering commands from the airplane and to send these modulated signals to the controller, wherein the controller is further configured to control the transfer module in response to the audio commands. 27. The system according to claim 21 further comprising location sensors coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is further configured to control the transfer module in response to a location of the system. 28. The system according to claim 21 wherein the controller is further configured to sense a system failure and in response to detach the system from the airplane. 29. The system according to claim 21 wherein the controller is coupled to a manual control module and is further configured to control the transfer module in response to commands provided by the manual control module. 