Robust nested speed converter and bearing apparatus providing speed conversion function and bearing support function in a compact package for a range of applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for converting rotary motion, the apparatus comprising a conjugate pair of cam gear parts and a translating part, said translating part including slots to define a slotted part, and a roller device, wherein a first of said pair of conjugate parts comprises an inner cam gear and the second of said pair comprises an outer cam gear, said slotted part nested in between, all said parts mounted about a common axis and defining an input and an output rotatable at said axis, said cam gear parts coupled together via said roller device, said roller device comprising a roller seated in one of said slots, all said parts having front and rear faces, wherein said slotted part is essentially cylindrical and defines a front bearing surface around its inner circumference adjacent to its front face and a rear bearing surface around its inner circumference adjacent to its rear face and defines a front bearing surface around its outer circumference adjacent to its front face and a rear bearing surface around its outer circumference adjacent to its rear face, wherein said inner cam gear part is essentially cylindrical and defines a front bearing surface around its outer circumference adjacent to its front face and a rear bearing surface around its outer circumference adjacent to its rear face, wherein said outer cam gear part defines a front bearing surface around its inner circumference adjacent to its front face and a rear bearing surface around its inner circumference adjacent to its rear face, wherein said inner circumference bearing surfaces of said slotted part rotatably communicates with said bearing surfaces of said inner cam gear part and said outer circumference bearing surfaces of said slotted part rotatably communicate with said bearing surfaces of said outer cam gear part, wherein rotation of a first of said parts as said input rotates a second of said parts as said output, wherein said output rotation is dictated by the relationship of said cam gears and said slots. 2. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said parts have open centers. 3. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said roller device comprises a plurality of rolling elements, with a respective one of the elements associated with a respective one of the slots. 4. Apparatus of claim 3 wherein the slotted part comprises a cylindrical retainer device and the rolling elements are rollers. 5. Apparatus of claim 3 wherein each of said roller elements comprise a pin and a roller mounted concentrically about said pin. 6. Apparatus of claim 5 wherein said pin is hollow. 7. Apparatus of claim 5 wherein said pin contacts said slotted part and one of said cam gear parts and said roller contacts another of said cam gear parts. 8. Apparatus of claim 5 wherein said pin contacts said slotted part and said roller contacts both of said cam gear parts. 9. Apparatus of claim 5 wherein each of said rolling elements further comprises an outer roller mounted concentrically about said roller mounted about said pin. 10. Apparatus of claim 3 wherein each of the rolling elements comprises a pin and a plurality of rollers mounted concentrically about said pin. 11. Apparatus of claim 10 wherein said pin of each of said rolling elements contacts said slotted part and at least one of said plurality of rollers contacts a first of said cam gears and another of said plurality of rollers contacts a second of said cam gears. 12. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein the parts each define a respective central passageway extending along the central longitudinal axis of the apparatus along said common central axis. 13. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein one of said parts comprises a housing part for mounting of the apparatus. 14. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein one of said parts comprises a pulley. 15. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein one of said parts comprises a sprocket. 16. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said inner cam gear is an input of the apparatus. 17. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said inner cam gear is an output of the apparatus. 18. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein bearing elements are disposed between said rotatable communicating bearing surfaces. 