A smart docking surface consisting of closely spaced cantilevered sensor/actuator structures capable of precisely repositioning an object having a ferro-magnetic surface in contact with the smart docking surface. It is designed for use in a micro gravity environment for the final docking sequence of two small (<100 kg) satellites. Its purpose is to reduce the complexity of the docking process where a precise mating is required.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a micro gravity environment, a smart docking surface apparatus forming a flat surface of a first three-dimensional object for the precise manipulation of a second three-dimensional object having a ferro-magnetic surface, said smart docking surface apparatus comprising: a plurality of identical cantilevered sensor/actuator beam elements attached to said first surface in a herringbone pattern with mutually perpendicular X and Y axes; means for attaching to and detaching from said second object by said smart docking surface apparatus; means for sensing the location of said second object on said smart docking surface apparatus once said second object is in contact with the smart docking surface apparatus; means for determining the correct sequence of element movements required to reposition said second object to a desired position on said smart docking surface apparatus; and means for actuating said beam elements in said predetermined sequence to reposition said second object. 2. The smart docking surface apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for sensing the location of said second object is eddy current sensors located on each beam element. 3. The smart docking surface apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for determining the correct sequence of element movements required to reposition said second object to a desired position is a computer. 4. The smart docking surface apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for actuating said beam elements are PZT unimorphs. 5. A method to facilitate the final docking sequence of a first receiving spacecraft (RSC) having a smart docking surface apparatus forming a flat surface on one side of said RSC and a second servicing spacecraft (SSC) having a ferro-magnetic docking surface once said ferro-magnetic docking surface of the SSC has made contact with said smart docking surface apparatus, composed of cantilevered sensor/actuator beam elements, of the RSC, the method comprising: sensing the location of the SSC on the smart docking surface using eddy current sensors; calculating the required sequence of sensor/actuator beam element movements to correctly position the SSC on the smart docking surface; and activating said sensor/actuator beam elements to move and align the SSC to the desired location. 