An end effector for supporting an ultrasonic testing probe on a robot arm having a robot mounting bracket for use in a nuclear reactor pressure vessel. The end effector has a wrist assembly with a rotatable wrist axle. The wrist assembly is coupled to the robot mounting bracket and a probe assembly is coupled to the wrist shaft. The ultrasonic testing probe is floatably disposed within the probe assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector for supporting an ultrasonic testing probe on a robot arm having a robot mounting bracket, comprising: a wrist assembly having a rotatable wrist shaft; said wrist assembly coupled to said robot mounting bracket; a probe assembly rotatably coupled to said wrist shaft; said probe assembly structured to floatably support an ultrasonic testing probe having a body with a diameter and at least one projection; said probe assembly comprising: a probe carriage assembly having a hollow cylindrical body and an interior surface; at least one longitudinal slot having a length and width on said interior surface; said interior surface having an interior diameter that is larger than said probe diameter; said at least one projection disposed within said at least one slot; and said at least one projection having a smaller diameter than said length and width of said slot. 2. An end effector for supporting an ultrasonic testing probe within a nuclear reactor pressure vessel on a robot arm having a robot mounting bracket, comprising: a wrist assembly having a rotatable wrist shaft; said wrist assembly coupled to said robot mounting bracket; a probe assembly rotatably coupled to said wrist shaft; said probe assembly structured to floatably support an ultrasonic testing probe having a body with a diameter and at least one projection; said probe assembly comprising: a probe carriage assembly having a hollow cylindrical body and an interior surface; at least one longitudinal slot having a length and width on said interior surface; said interior surface having an interior diameter that is larger than said probe diameter; said at least one projection disposed within said at least one slot; and said at least one projection having a smaller diameter than said length and width of said slot. 3. The end effector of claim 2 wherein said probe has a body having a cross-sectional area and said carriage assembly hollow body has a cross-sectional area that is larger than the probe cross-sectional area. 4. The end effector of claim 3 wherein said probe carriage assembly has a front end; and further includes a means disposed within said probe carriage assembly structured to bias a probe toward said front end of said carriage assembly. 5. The end effector of claim 2 wherein said probe carriage assembly has a front end, and further includes a spring disposed within said carriage assembly structured to bias a probe toward said front end of said carriage assembly. 6. The end effector of claim 5 wherein said probe assembly includes a camera assembly disposed above said probe assembly. 7. The end effector of claim 5, wherein said probe carriage assembly is rotatable about a longitudinal axis. 8. The end effector of claim 7 wherein said probe assembly further includes: a frame member coupled to said wrist shaft; said frame member having a front end and a back end; a hollow cylindrical probe carriage housing integral to said frame member front end; said probe carriage assembly rotatably disposed within said probe carriage housing. 9. The end effector of claim 8, wherein said probe assembly includes: a pin extending from said probe carriage housing adjacent to said probe carriage back end; said probe carriage assembly having a back end with at least one stop pin extending therefrom; during rotation of said probe carriage assembly, said at least one stop pin contacts said probe carriage housing pin limiting rotation of said probe carriage assembly to less than 360.degree. within said probe carriage housing. 10. The end effector of claim 7, wherein said probe assembly includes a carriage assembly rotation motor coupled to said probe carriage assembly. 11. The end effector of claim 10, wherein said probe carriage assembly has a back end coupling arm extending therefrom; said coupling arm attached to said carriage assembly rotation motor. 12. The end effector of claim 11, wherein said coupling arm has a notch to provide access for cables connected to a probe disposed within said probe assembly. 13. The end effector of claim 12 wherein said probe assembly further includes: a frame member coupled to said wrist shaft; said frame member having a front end and a back end; a hollow cylindrical probe carriage housing integral to said frame member front end; said probe carriage assembly rotatably disposed within said probe carriage housing. 14. The end effector of claim 13, wherein said probe assembly includes: a pin extending from said probe carriage housing adjacent to said probe carriage back end; said probe carriage assembly including at least one stop pin extending from said probe carriage back end; during rotation of said probe carriage assembly, said at least one stop pin contacts said probe carriage housing pin limiting rotation of said probe carriage assembly to less than 360.degree. within said probe carriage housing. 15. The end effector of claim 14, wherein said probe assembly and a camera assembly is disposed above said probe assembly. 16. An end effector for supporting an ultrasonic testing probe on a robot arm having a robot mounting bracket, comprising: a wrist assembly having a rotatable wrist shaft; said wrist assembly coupled to said robot mounting bracket; a probe assembly rotatably coupled to said wrist shaft, including a clutch assembly releasably coupling said probe assembly to said wrist shaft wherein said clutch assembly comprises: a clutch pin; said wrist shaft having a lower end and said lower end having a detent; and a means to bias said clutch pin against said lower end detent; said probe assembly structured to floatably support an ultrasonic testing probe. 17. The end effector of claim 16 wherein said clutch assembly further includes: a clutch assembly housing having a back plate; said clutch assembly housing being rotatably attached to said wrist assembly and fixedly attached to said probe assembly; clutch pin housing; a clutch pin spring; said shaft lower end disposed within said clutch assembly housing; said clutch pin housing fixedly attached to said clutch assembly housing back plate; said clutch pin spring and said clutch pin disposed within said clutch pin housing; said clutch pin spring biasing said clutch pin against said lower end detent. 18. The end effector of claim 17 wherein said wrist assembly comprises: a wrist motor; a resolver integral to said wrist motor; a mounting bracket attached to said wrist motor and coupled with said robot mounting bracket. 19. The end effector of claim 18, wherein said probe assembly includes a camera assembly attached to said frame member. 20. A method of ultrasonically inspecting a bolt, comprising the steps of: positioning a robotic arm end effector adjacent to a bolt head having a lock bar, said end effector having wrist assembly which supports a probe assembly, said probe assembly floatably supporting an ultrasonic probe and biasing said probe toward said bolt head, said probe having a mating surface with a groove; rotating said wrist in a first plane to grossly align said ultrasonic probe with said bolt head; rotating said ultrasonic probe in a second plane to grossly align said groove with said lock bar; bringing said ultrasonic probe into contact with said bolt head; allowing floatable probe to align flush with said bolt head; and performing ultrasonic testing. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said robotic arm has a camera assembly to provide visual feedback to aid in aligning said ultrasonic probe with said bolt head and lock bar, and wherein said gross alignment is performed using visual feed back. 