A robot teach tool is provided that enables automatic teaching of pick and place positions for a robot. The automated robot teach tool obviates the need for manual operation of the robot during the teaching. The result is an automated process that is much faster, more accurate, more repeatable and less taxing on a robot operator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot teach tool, comprising: a body assembly with a proximity sensor mounted therein that is releasably mated with a robot end effector; a foot assembly coupled to the body assembly, wherein the foot assembly comprises a sensor target mounted therein that is located about the proximity sensor; and wherein the proximity sensor and the sensor target are configured to detect signals representative of a perturbation as the robot end effector moves the body assembly and foot assembly from a central position within a workpiece receptacle through six degrees of freedom, wherein the signals are used to determine a precise orientation for the robot end effector to pick up and place a workpiece to and from the workpiece receptacle, wherein the signals representative of the perturbation are generated in response to the foot assembly colliding with a horizontal surface or a vertical surface of the workpiece receptacle. 2. The robot teach tool according to claim 1, wherein the body assembly comprises a plurality of registration features located on an exterior thereof to facilitate gripping thereof by the robot end effector. 3. The robot teach tool according to claim 1, wherein the body assembly comprises a plurality of bearings on the interior thereof to facilitate coupling with the foot assembly. 4. The robot teach tool according to claim 1, wherein the foot assembly comprises a plurality of parking station holes located throughout that facilitate coupling with a parking station. 5. The robot teach tool according to claim 1, wherein the foot assembly comprises a base section and a sensor target platform disposed on the base section. 6. The robot teach tool according to claim 5, wherein the sensor target platform comprises a plurality of bearing pockets configured to facilitate coupling with the body assembly. 7. The robot teach tool according to claim 5, wherein the sensor target is supported above the sensor target platform by a plurality of platform posts. 8. The robot teach tool according to claim 1, wherein the sensor target is located above the proximity sensor. 9. A system for automatically teaching a robot a plurality of pick and place positions, comprising: a robot teach tool comprising a body assembly with a proximity sensor mounted therein and a foot assembly coupled to the body assembly, wherein the foot assembly comprises a sensor target mounted therein that is located about the proximity sensor, wherein the robot teach tool is separate and distinct from the robot without being physically integrated therewith; and a robot controller that controls operation of the robot, wherein the robot controller directs a robot end effector to pick up the robot teach tool and move the robot teach tool from a central position within a workpiece receptacle through six degrees of freedom, the robot controller comprising a robot orienter that receives perturbation signals from the proximity sensor as the robot end effector moves the robot teach tool from the central position within the workpiece receptacle through the six degrees of freedom and determines a precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions from the perturbation signals, wherein the perturbation signals are generated in response to the foot assembly of the robot teach tool colliding with a horizontal surface or a vertical surface of the workpiece receptacle. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the proximity sensor detects a perturbation signal in response to sensing that the sensor target has moved a predetermined distance therefrom. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the proximity sensor detects that the robot teach tool is in the central position of the workpiece receptacle in response to sensing that the sensor target has moved back towards the proximity sensor. 12. The system according to claim 9, wherein the robot controller directs the robot end effector to further move the robot teach tool from the central position of the workpiece receptacle to a place position through three degrees of rotation. 13. The system according to claim 9, wherein the robot orienter determines the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions by ascertaining coordinates of the robot teach tool during detection of the perturbation signals. 14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the robot orienter further determines the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions by ascertaining coordinates of the robot teach tool in the central position where there are no collisions with any surface of the workpiece receptacle. 15. The system according to claim 9, wherein the robot controller stores the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions determined by the robot orienter. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the robot controller uses the stored plurality of pick and place positions to direct the robot end effector to pick and place a workpiece to and from the workpiece receptacle. 17. The system according to claim 9, wherein the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions determined by the robot orienter includes positions in the workpiece receptacle that are portrait or landscape. 18. A method for automatically teaching a robot a plurality of pick and place positions for a workstation located about the robot, comprising: providing a robot teach tool that is separate and distinct from the robot without being physically integrated therewith; directing a robot end effector to pick up the robot teach tool; directing the robot end effector to move the robot teach tool towards a workpiece receptacle located at the workstation to a central position and from the central position, to a place position in all six degrees of freedom; receiving perturbation signals detected from the teach tool as the robot end effector moves the robot teach tool from the central position with the workpiece receptacle through six degrees of freedom, wherein the perturbation signals are detected in response to the robot teach tool colliding with a horizontal surface or a vertical surface of the workpiece receptacle; and determining a precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions for the workpiece receptacle from the perturbation signals. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the determining of the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions comprises ascertaining coordinates of the robot teach tool during detection of the perturbation signals. 20. The method according to claim 18, further comprising storing the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions determined for the workstation by the robot orienter. 21. The method according to claim 20, further comprising using the stored plurality of pick and place positions to direct the robot end effector to pick and place a workpiece to and from the workpiece receptacle located at the workstation. 22. The method according to claim 18, further comprising directing the robot end effector to move the robot teach tool from the central position of the workpiece receptacle to a place position through three degrees of rotation. 23. A modular robotic system, comprising: a plurality of modular robotic workstations; a robot that moves material to and from each of the plurality of modular robotic workstations; and a robot teach tool configured to interact with the plurality of robotic modular workstations and the robot, wherein the robot teach tool facilitates automatic learning of pick and place locations of each of the plurality of modular robotic workstations, where the robot teach tool is separate and distinct from the plurality of modular robotic workstations and the robot without being physically integrated therewith. 24. The modular robotic system according to claim 23, wherein the robot teach tool comprises a body assembly with a proximity sensor mounted therein and a foot assembly coupled to the body assembly, wherein the foot assembly comprises a sensor target mounted therein that is located about the proximity sensor. 25. The modular robotic system according to claim 23, wherein each robotic modular workstation comprises a robot controller that controls operation of the robot with respect to the workstation, wherein the robot controller directs a robot end effector to pick up the robot teach tool and move the robot teach tool from a central position within a workpiece receptacle located on the workstation through six degrees of freedom, the robot controller comprising a robot orienter that receives perturbation signals from the proximity sensor as the robot end effector moves the robot teach tool from the central position within the workpiece receptacle through the six degrees of freedom and determines a precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions from the perturbation signals, wherein the perturbation signals are detected in response to the robot teach tool colliding with a horizontal surface or a vertical surface of the workpiece receptacle. 26. The modular robotic system according to claim 25, wherein the robot controller directs the robot end effector to further move the robot teach tool from the central position of the workpiece receptacle to a place position through three degrees of rotation. 27. The modular robotic system according to claim 25, wherein the robot orienter determines the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions by ascertaining coordinates of the robot teach tool during detection of the perturbation signals. 28. The modular robotic system according to claim 25, wherein the robot orienter further determines the precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions by ascertaining coordinates of the robot teach tool in the central position wherein there are no collisions with any surface of the workpiece receptacle. 29. A method for automatically teaching a plurality of pick and place positions for a modular robotic system having a plurality of modular robotic workstations and a robot that moves material to and from each of the plurality of modular robotic workstations, the method comprising: providing a robot teach tool that is separate and distinct from the plurality of modular robotic workstations and the robot without being physically integrated therewith; directing the robot to pick up the robot teach tool; directing the robot to move the robot teach tool towards a workpiece receptacle located at one of the plurality of modular robotic workstations; directing the robot teach tool to a central position within the workpiece receptacle and from the central position, to a place position in all six degrees of freedom; receiving perturbation signals detected from the robot teach tool as the robot end moves the robot teach tool from the central position with the workpiece receptacle through six degrees of freedom, wherein the perturbation signals are detected in response to the robot teach tool colliding with a horizontal surface or a vertical surface of the workpiece receptacle; and determining a precise orientation of the plurality of pick and place positions for the workpiece receptacle from the perturbation signals. 