A dual-arm wafer hand-off assembly includes a pair of pickup arms for transferring wafers within a wafer processing system. The two pickup arms are adapted to move such that the wafer on one of the arms can be positioned over the other arm and handed off. In one version, a Bernoulli-style wand translates along a linear guideway and may be positioned over a paddle-style pickup arm. The wafer carried by the Bernoulli wand can be handed off to the paddle by shutting off the flow of gas from the Bernoulli wand jets. The two pickup arms may be mounted on linear slides and adapted to translate between a load/unload chamber and a processing chamber, or the guideway may be adapted to rotate to allow transfer of wafers to multiple processing chambers in a cluster system. One of the pickup arms is preferably an all-quartz Bernoulli-style pickup arm having a proximal arm portion and a distal wand. The arm portion is formed by a pair of juxtaposed plates with a gas passage therethrough, and the distal wand is also formed by a pair of juxtaposed plates with a plurality of gas passages therethrough. The arm portion and the wand are fused together at their junction region. A wafer stop element is formed by a single quartz rod and is clipped to the arm portion to present a plurality of wafer stop pegs at a proximal periphery of the wand. The wafer stop element may be rapidly installed or removed without fasteners or bonding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of moving a thin planar article comprising the steps of: extending a first transfer arm in a rectilinear direction from an article transfer position to an article lifting position, said arm having a portion configured to lift said article; lifting an article from a first support with said portion; retracting the arm with said article in a rectilinear direction to said transfer position; positioning a second transfer arm in a retracted position, with a portion of said second arm being configured to lift said article without vertically moving the second arm and being closely spaced above said article on said first arm portion; transferring the article from the first arm to the second transfer arm while both arms are in said retracted position; extending the second transfer arm in a rectilinear direction away from the transfer position to a new position; depositing the article on a second support at the new position; and retracting the second transfer arm in a linear direction to the transfer position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said arms moves faster when not moving an article than when moving an article. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first transfer arm includes a paddle on one end, and the second transfer arm includes a Bernoulli wand pick-up head on one end, and the transferring of the article from the first arm to the second arm includes moving the arms to said transfer position where the paddle supporting the article is moved beneath the Bernoulli pick-up head so that the article can be transferred from the paddle to the Bernoulli head by way of gas flowing from the Bernoulli head onto an upper surface of the article. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the transfer arms when moving the article are moved at a slower acceleration and velocity than when moving without moving the article, and wherein said Bernoulli pick-up head when moving the article moves at a slower acceleration and velocity than said first transfer arm when the paddle is supporting the article. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said transfer position is in a handling chamber defined by a plurality of walls, and said extending step of said first transfer arm includes extending the first transfer arm into a first chamber, defined by a plurality of walls, adjacent the transfer chamber, and the extending step of said second transfer arm includes extending the second transfer arm into a second chamber, defined by a plurality of walls, adjacent the handler chamber. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said first transfer arm includes a paddle on one end of the arm to extend beneath the article for lifting the article, and said second transfer arm includes a Bernoulli wand for lifting an article utilizing the Bernoulli principle, and said step of extending the first transfer arm includes extending the paddle into a first chamber, defined by a plurality of walls, containing one or more articles to be processed in a process chamber, defined by a plurality of walls, said transferring step includes moving the paddle beneath the Bernoulli wand and lifting the article from the paddle with the Bernoulli wand by flowing gas from the transfer arm away from the transfer position includes extending the second transfer arm while carrying the article with the Bernoulli wand and moving the article into the process chamber which is adjacent the handling chamber, and depositing the article in the process chamber before retracting the second transfer arm to the transfer position. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second transfer arm includes a Bernoulli wand pickup head on one end and the first transfer arm includes a paddle on one end, and the step of extending the second transfer arm includes extending the pickup head into a hot process chamber defined by a plurality of walls. 