An air retriever, such as a bellows (24) is used in an end effector (18) for lifting work products (22) in prearranged configurations, and delivery to a container (20) in a predetermined pattern. An air flow control valve (50) is positioned in each bellows (24) for individually controlling the flow of air through each bellows so that the bellows in a pick zone may draw air for picking up work products while air flow is not applied to the other bellows out of the pick zone.
Claims Therefore, having thus described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. An end effector for a robot for retrieving work products and placing the retrieved work products at a delivery site, said end effector comprising: a vacuum plenum housing, an array of vacuum retrievers extending down from said vacuum plenum housing for engaging the work products, a valve positioned in each said vacuum retrievers that separates each said vacuum retrievers into an upper chamber in communication with said vacuum plenum housing and a lower chamber in communication with the atmosphere for engaging the work products, said valves each defining an air passage between said upper chamber and said lower chamber for the movement of air from the lower chamber to the upper chamber and into said vacuum plenum, and a valve element comprising a diaphragm movable in said upper chamber into and out of blocking relationship with said air passage, wherein said upper chamber of said vacuum retrievers are configured to be moveable in response to closing of said air passage and a reduced air pressure drawn in said upper chamber. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said vacuum retrievers in said lower chamber are cup-shaped bellows with annular protrusions. 3. The end effector of claim 2, wherein said bellows are constructed so that said bellows shrink and expand in response to the closing and opening of said air passages, respectively. 4. The end effector of claim 3, wherein said valve element comprises a control air application tube extending from said vacuum plenum housing downwardly into said upper chamber toward said air passage for directing control air toward said air passage, and means for moving said valve element into and out of engagement with said air passage. 5. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said vacuum retrievers are cup-shaped bellows with annular protrusions, and said valve is supported in said bellows at one of said annular protrusions. 6. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said valve includes a valve plate supported by said vacuum retrievers. 7. An end effector for a robot for retrieving work products and placing the retrieved work products at a delivery site, said end effector comprising: an array of vacuum bellows each having one end configured for fluid communication with a vacuum source and another end configured for fluid communication with the atmosphere and for engaging the work products, a valve positioned in said vacuum bellows that separates said vacuum bellows into an upper bellows chamber in communication with the vacuum source and a lower bellows chamber in communication with the atmosphere for engaging the work products, said valve comprising a valve seat defining an air passage between said upper bellows chamber and said lower bellows chamber for the movement of air from the lower bellows chamber to the upper bellows chamber and into said vacuum source, and a valve element comprising a diaphragm movable in said upper bellows chamber into and out of blocking relationship with said valve seat. 8. The end effector of claim 7, wherein said valve seat comprises a valve plate mounted in said bellows, an air passage formed in said valve plate, and said valve element arranged to move into and out of closed relationship with respect to said air passage of said valve plate. 9. The end effector of claim 7, wherein said vacuum bellows is cup-shaped and includes a series of wide and narrow annular folds, and said valve seat is supported in one of said wide annular folds. 10. An end effector for retrieving work products in a selected pattern from an accumulation of work products and for placing the retrieved work products in the selected pattern in a receptacle, the end effector comprising: a vacuum plenum source for maintaining a sub-atmospheric pressure, an array of vacuum retrievers in communication with said vacuum plenum source for engaging the work products, a diaphragm control valve mounted in each vacuum retriever of said array of vacuum retrievers for applying the sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing to each of the vacuum retrievers in a selected zone of the vacuum retrievers that are to retrieve work products while avoiding an application of the sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing to the vacuum retrievers that are not in the selected zone of the vacuum retrievers, a robot connected to the end effector for moving said end effector into predetermined attitudes with respect to the accumulation of work products to gather the work products from the accumulation of work products in a predetermined pattern on the vacuum retrievers. 11. The end effector of claim 10, wherein the vacuum retrievers are corrugated suction cups. 12. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said valve plate is movable with said bellows in response to the change of air pressure in said upper bellows chamber. 13. The end effector of claim 10, wherein said vacuum source comprises a vacuum plenum in fluid communication with said array of said vacuum retrievers. 