Methods and apparatus for the semi-automated synthesis of libraries of organic compounds are disclosed. More specifically, the present invention comprises multi-vessel reaction blocks, accessory components, and complementary workstations designed to facilitate the semi-automated production of libraries of chemical compounds by combinatorial and parallel synthesis techniques. The invention is particularly well suited to the conduct of solid-phase or solution-phase parallel syntheses of single compounds and compound mixtures in a high-throughput manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use in synthesizing a library of organic compounds comprising: (a) a reaction block assembly comprising: (i) a reaction block having multiple individual reaction vessels, each of said vessels having an open top and a bottom surface with a drain hole located therein; and (ii) a sealing means for simultaneously sealing the drain holes of each of the reaction vessels in the reaction block, said sealing means having a plurality of through-holes spatially corresponding to the drain holes of the reaction vessels and movable into and out of fluid communication with said drain holes; (b) a washing plate assembly comprising a means for attaching the reaction block; a recessed wash plate cavity in fluid communication with a fluid exit port; and a means for simultaneously controlling the drainage of all of the reaction vessels; (c) a transfer assembly comprising a transfer box having an internal cavity sized to fit a receiving container, a transfer cover plate shaped to mate with the reaction block assembly, and a means for locating the transfer assembly cover plate on the transfer box; (d) a top cover plate which seals the tops of the reaction vessels as a group and forms a closed top compartment above the tops of the reaction vessels; (e) a base plate which encloses the bottom of the reaction block and the sealing means to form a closed bottom compartment; (f) a pressure equalization through-hole extending through the reaction block from the top compartment to the bottom compartment; and (g) means for opening and closing the pressure equalization through-hole comprising the sealing means which includes a through-hole spatially corresponding to the pressure equalization through-hole; wherein the pressure equalization through-hole opens when the sealing means closes the reaction vessel drain holes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the pressure equalization through-hole closes when the sealing means opens the reaction vessel drain holes. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein reaction vessel drain tubes are fixed within the through-holes of the sealing means. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the reaction block is formed from a single piece of material. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the reaction block is assembled from a reaction block top piece and a reaction block bottom piece. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the reaction block top piece and reaction block bottom piece are joined together by placing a polymeric film between the pieces and followed by heating under compression. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sealing means is a sliding seal plate. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the sliding seal plate contains through slots which limit the sliding motion to a single axis. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the sliding seal plate is held in close proximity to and coplanar with the bottom of the reaction block by a spring means. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the spring means comprises a threaded screw extending through a spring which allows adjustment of compression of the spring. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the top cover plate includes a plurality of perforations spatially substantially corresponding to the tops of the reaction vessels. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein a solvent-resistant elastomeric rubber septum is placed atop the reaction vessels and below the top perforated cover plate. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the top cover plate is an assembly comprising a top cover plate having a plurality of perforations spatially substantially corresponding to the tops of the reaction vessels, a solvent-resistant elastomeric rubber septum, and a bottom cover plate having a plurality of perforations spatially substantially corresponding to both the tops of the reaction vessels and to the perforations of the top cover plate. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a reaction block heat/cool plate assembly comprising a cover plate box which mates with the top of the reaction block and which has an interior passage through which a heat-transfer liquid may pass. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wash plate cavity is sloped toward the fluid exit port. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transfer assembly cover plate includes a plurality of holes spatially corresponding to the drain holes of the reaction vessels of the reaction block. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein drain tubes are fixed within the through-holes of the transfer assembly cover plate. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the transfer assembly cover plate drain tubes lead directly into a receiving container. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the receiving container is selected from the group consisting of a multiwell microtiter plate, a second reaction block assembly, an array of glass vials, and an array of sorbent media. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the transfer assembly cover plate drain tubes lead to a fluid redirecting means which horizontally transfers fluids drained from the reaction block prior to transfering the fluids into a receiving container. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the fluid redirecting means comprises channels in a transfer plate, said channels originating directly below the transfer assembly drain tubes and terminating in holes. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein porous frits are located at the bottom of each reaction vessel. 