A semiconductor wafer review system and method. A method and system for front and back side review of semiconductor wafers is provided in various embodiments. Inspection data for the front side is used to position the wafer for front side review, and a wafer inverter is provided to flip the wafer for back side review. Inspection data for the back side is used to position the wafer for back side review.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for review of a semiconductor wafer having a front side and a back side, the method comprising: positioning the wafer in response to front side wafer inspection data; after positioning the wafer, reviewing the front side of the wafer; inverting the wafer and exposing a back side of the wafer for review; positioning the inverted wafer in response to back side wafer inspection data; and reviewing the back side of the inverted wafer. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising inverting the wafer after reviewing the back side. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing the review of the semiconductor wafer in a system comprising a control computer and a review station. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising downloading front side inspection data for the wafer from the control computer to the review station. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising downloading back side inspection data for the wafer from the control computer to the review station. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein positioning the wafer includes using a robotic arm adapted to position the wafer. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising adapting the robotic arm with a vacuum paddle adapted to hold the wafer using the vacuum. 8. The method of claim 3, further comprising adapting the vacuum paddle to rotate, wherein positioning the wafer includes rotating the vacuum paddle. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising clamping the wafer with at least two clamps, prior to reviewing the wafer. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a microscope and analyzing the wafer. 11. A method for review of a semiconductor wafer in a computer controlled wafer analysis system including at least two review stations, comprising the steps of: downloading front side inspection data for the wafer from a control computer to a first one of the review stations; positioning the wafer at the first review station in response to the front side inspection data; reviewing the front side of the wafer with a microscope; moving the wafer to a second one of the review stations; inverting the wafer, whereby a back side of the wafer is exposed for review; downloading back side inspection data for the wafer from the control computer to the second review station; positioning the wafer at the second review station in response to the back side inspection data; and reviewing the back side of the wafer with a microscope. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising inverting the wafer after reviewing the back side. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: (a) moving a cassette containing a plurality of wafers to the first review station; (b) removing a selected one of the wafers from the cassette; (c) replacing the wafer in the cassette after reviewing the front side; repeating steps (a)-(c) until front sides of the wafers have been reviewed; (d) moving the cassette to the second review station; (e) removing a selected one of the wafers from the cassette; (g) replacing the wafer in the cassette after reviewing the back side; and repeating steps (d)-(f) until back sides of the wafers have been reviewed. 14. A method for review of a semiconductor wafer having a front side and a back side, the method comprising: positioning the wafer in response to front side wafer inspection data including positioning the wafer at a first review station; after positioning the wafer, reviewing the front side of the wafer; inverting the wafer and exposing a back side of the wafer for review; positioning the inverted wafer in response to back side wafer inspection data including positioning the wafer at a second review station; moving the wafer between the first and second review stations; and reviewing the back side of the inverted wafer; wherein the semiconductor wafer is reviewed in a system comprising a control computer and a review station. 15. A method for review of a semiconductor wafer having a front side and a back side, the method comprising: downloading front side inspection data for the wafer from a control computer to a first review station; retrieving the wafer with a robotic arm having a vacuum paddle, the vacuum paddle being adapted to hold the wafer with vacuum suction; in response to the front side inspection data, positioning the wafer in the first review station with the robotic arm and clamping the wafer in position; reviewing the front side of the wafer with a microscope; retrieving the wafer from the first review station with the robotic arm; downloading back side inspection data for the wafer from the control computer to a second review station; in response to the back side inspection data, inverting the wafer and positioning the wafer in the second review station and clamping the wafer in position, whereby a back side of the wafer is exposed for review; and reviewing the back side of the wafer with a microscope. 16. A system for review of a semiconductor wafer having a front side and a back side, the system comprising: means for positioning the wafer in response to front side wafer inspection data; means for reviewing the front side of the wafer after it has been positioned; means for inverting the wafer and exposing a back side of the wafer for review; means for positioning the inverted wafer in response to back side wafer inspection data; and means for reviewing the back side of the inverted wafer. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising: means for downloading the front side inspection data from a control computer to the means for positioning the wafer in response to front wafer inspection data; and means for downloading the back side inspection data from a control computer to the means for positioning the wafer in response to back side wafer inspection data. 18. A method for review of a semiconductor wafer having a front side and a back side, the method comprising: positioning the wafer at a first review station in response to front side wafer inspection data; after positioning the wafer at the first review station, using a system comprising a control computer and the first review station and reviewing the front side of the wafer; inverting the wafer and exposing a back side of the wafer for review; moving the wafer from the first review station to a second review station; positioning the inverted wafer at the second review station in response to back side wafer inspection data; and using a system comprising a control computer and the second review station and reviewing the back side of the positioned inverted wafer. 19. A method for review of a semiconductor wafer having a front side and a back side, the method comprising: clamping the wafer with at least two clamps; positioning the wafer in response to front side wafer inspection data; after positioning the clamped wafer, reviewing the front side of the wafer; inverting the wafer and exposing a back side of the wafer for review; positioning the inverted wafer in response to back side wafer inspection data; and reviewing the back side of the inverted wafer. 20. A system for review of a semiconductor wafer in a computer controlled wafer analysis system including at least two review stations, the system comprising: means for downloading front side inspection data for the wafer from a control computer to a first one of the review stations; means for positioning the wafer at the first review station in response to the front side inspection data; means for reviewing the front side of the positioned wafer with a microscope; means for moving the wafer to a second one of the review stations; means for inverting the wafer and exposing a back side of the wafer for review; means for downloading back side inspection data for the wafer from the control computer to the second review station; means for positioning the inverted wafer at the second review station in response to the back side inspection data; and means for reviewing the back side of the wafer with a microscope. 21. A system for review of a semiconductor wafer in a computer controlled wafer analysis system including at least two review stations, the system comprising: a control system adapted to download front side inspection data for the wafer from a control computer to a first one of the review stations; a positioning arrangement adapted to position the wafer at the first review station in response to the front side inspection data; a front side reviewing arrangement adapted to review the front side of the positioned wafer with a microscope; a moving arrangement adapted to move the wafer to a second one of the review stations; an inverting arrangement adapted to invert the wafer and expose a back side of the wafer for review; a control system adapted to download back side inspection data for the wafer from the control computer to the second review station; a positioning arrangement adapted to position the inverted wafer at the second review station in response to the back side inspection data; and a back side reviewing arrangement adapted to review the back side of the inverted wafer with a microscope. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the positioning arrangement includes a robotic arm arranged to retrieve a wafer from a cassette, wherein the inverting arrangement includes a wafer inverter arranged to receive a wafer from the robotic arm and to flip the wafer, wherein the moving arrangement includes a wafer transfer mechanism arranged to receive the wafer from the wafer inverter and move the wafer, and wherein the front side reviewing arrangement includes a microscope review station arranged to receive the wafer from the wafer transfer mechanism and position the wafer for review with an objective. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the control system is arranged to transmit inspection data, wherein the front side reviewing arrangement includes a first review station coupled to the control system, equipped with a microscope, and arranged to receive wafer inspection data from the control system, wherein the back side reviewing arrangement includes a second review station coupled to the control system, equipped with a microscope, and arranged to receive inspection data from the control system, and wherein the inverting arrangement includes a wafer inverter configured with the second review station and arranged to flip a wafer to be reviewed with the microscope of the second review station, whereby the backside of the wafer is exposed for viewing. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein at least one of the positioning arrangements includes a robotic arm. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the robotic arm is adapted to retrieve a wafer from a cassette. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the robotic arm is equipped with a vacuum paddle. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the vacuum paddle is adapted to hold the wafer. 28. The system of claim 24, wherein the inverting arrangement includes a wafer inverter adapted to receive the wafer from the robotic arm. 29. The system of claim 21, wherein at least one of the reviewing arrangements includes a stage, wherein the positioning arrangements are adapted to position the wafer on the stage. 