An apparatus for welding that includes a fixture for locating product including a weldable material having a relatively sharp melting point. The apparatus also includes a robot positioned adjacent the fixture and that has a moveable arm and a controller programmable to control movement of the arm, and a welder assembly that includes a mid-frequency DC transformers and a weld mechanism attached to the arm and operably connected to the mid-frequency DC transformer. The weld mechanism includes a pair of opposing weld tips adapted and configured to weld a pair of plates that include the weldable material.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for welding a product including a weldable material having a relatively sharp melting point, comprising: a fixture for locating the product to be welded; a robot positioned adjacent the fixture and having a movable arm and a controller programmable to control movement of the arm; and a welder assembly including a mid-frequency DC taansformer and a weld mechanism attached to the arm and operably connected to the mid-frequency DC transformer, the weld mechanism including a pair of opposing weld tips adapted and configured to weld a pair of plates including the weldable material. 2. The apparatus described in claim 1, wherein the weld tips of the weld mechanism are mounted to move along a linear path. 3. The apparatus described in claim 2, wherein the product includes a battery having a top edge, and wherein the fixture is configured to mateably engage the top edge of the battery to locate the battery relative to the weld mechanism for welding the weldable material. 4. The apparatus described in claim 3, wherein the fixture is configured to mateably engage at least one corner of the top edge of the battery. 5. The apparatus described in claim 4, further including: a conveyor in communication with the fixture, such that the battery can be conveyed into a position on the conveyor and then located within the fixture by a powered actuator. 6. The apparatus described in claim 5, wherein the weld mechanism characteristically has a low weight of less than about 100 pounds. 7. The apparatus described in claim 1, wherein the product includes a battery having a top edge and the fixture mateably engages the top edge of the battery to locate the battery relative to the weld mechanism for welding the weldable material. 8. The apparatus described in claim 1, wherein the fixture mateably engages at least one corner of the battery to locate the battery relative to the welder assembly for welding the weldable material. 9. The apparatus described in claim 1, further including: a conveyor in communication with the fixture, such that the battery can be conveyed into a position on the conveyor and then located within the fixture by a powered actuator. 10. The apparatus described in claim 9, wherein the powered actuator includes at least one fluid cylinder. 11. An apparatus, comprising: a plurality of product units each having at least a pair of plates that include a weldable material for a cathode or an anode, and having a casing that includes a top edge; a conveyor line adapted to convey the product to be welded; a robot positioned adjacent the conveyor line and having a movable arm and a controller programmable to control movement of the arm; and a welder assembly including a mid-frequency DC transformer and a weld mechanism attached to the arm and operably connected to the mid-frequency DC tranformer, the weld mechanism including a pair of opposing weld tips adapted and configured to weld the pair of plates, and including a fixture shaped to mateably engage the top edge of the casing to accurately locate the battery relative to the casing for welding the weldable material. 12. The apparatus described in claim 11, wherein the top edge includes a plurality of corners and the fixture mateably engages at least one of the corners. 13. The apparatus described in claim 12, wherein the weld tips move in a substantially linear path. 14. The apparatus described in claim 13, wherein the welder assembly has a weight of less than 100 pounds. 15. The apparatus described in claim 11, wherein the weld tips move in a substantially linear path. 16. An apparatus for welding a product including a weldable material, comprising: a fixture for positioning the product to be welded; a robot positioned adjacent the fixture and having a movable arm and a controller programmable to control movement of the arm; and a welder assembly including a mid-frequency DC transformer and a weld mechanism attached to the arm and operably connected to the mid-frequency DC transformer, the weld mechanism including a mounting plate, a pair of opposing weld tips movably mounted to the mounting plate for movement along a linear path on the mounting plate, and scissor arms pivotally mounted to the mounting plate and operably connected to the weld tips to oscillatingly move the weld tips along the linear path. 17. The apparatus described in claim 16, further including: a conveyor in communication with the fixture, such that the product can be conveyed into a position on the conveyer and then located within the fixture by a powered actuator. 18. The apparatus described in claim 17, wherein the powered actuator includes at least one fluid cylinder. 19. The apparatus described in claim 18, wherein the product includes a battery which includes a case having a top edge, and wherein the fixture mateably engages a top edge of the battery to locate the battery relative to the weld mechanism for welding the weldable material. 20. The apparatus described in claim 19, wherein the top edge includes a plurality of corners and the fixture mateably engages at least one of the corners. 21. The apparatus described in claim 17, wherein the product is a battery that includes a case having a top edge, and wherein the fixture mateably engages a top edge of the battery to locate the battery relative to the weld mechanism for welding the weldable material. 22. The apparatus described in claim 21, wherein the top edge includes a plurality of corners and the fixture mateably engages at least one of the corners. 23. A welding mechanism for a apparatus comprising: a mounting plate having two oval-shaped apertures extending therethrough; a pair of opposing welding tips operably mounted for linear movement on the mounting plate and operable between an open non-welding position and a closed welding position; a mid-frequency DC transformer in communication with the welding tips; at least one actuator arm moveable between a first position corresponding to the open non-welding position of the welding tips and a second position corresponding to the closed welding position of the welding tips; and a pair of scissor arms operably attached to the at least one actuator arm and pivotally mounted to the mounting plate at a first point, each scissor arm operably attached to one of the welding tips and having a pivot boss connected to one side thereof which extends through one of the oval-shaped apertures of the mounting plate, such that the bosses are guided within the oval-shaped apertures of the mounting plate as the actuator arm is moved between the first position and the second position. 24. The welding apparatus of claim 23, wherein the welding mechanism is adapted to weld a weldable material having a relatively sharp melting point, such as lead or lead alloy for a battery. 25. The welding apparatus of claim 24, wherein the welding mechanism further includes a first stop operably mounted to the mounting plate and a second stop mechanically coupled to at least one of the scissor arms, the second stop limiting the position of the welding tips in the open non-welding position by contacting the first stop. 26. The welding apparatus of claim 25, wherein the position of the first stop block within the mounted plate is adjustable. 27. The welding apparatus of claim 26, wherein the position of the first stop block within the mounting plate is threadably adjustable. 28. The welding apparatus of claim 27, wherein the travel of the actuator arm is limited, thereby limiting the position of the welding tips in the closed welding position. 29. The welding apparatus of claim 28, wherein at least a portion of the actuator arm is threaded, travels in a linear motion, and is fitted with a threaded adjustment ring adapted to contact at least a portion of the mounting plate, thereby limiting the position of the welding tips in the closed welding position. 30. The welding apparatus of claims 29, wherein the welding mechanism further includes a first stop operably mounted to the mounting plate and a second stop mechanically coupled to at least one of the scissor arms, the second stop limiting the position of the welding tips in the open non-welding position by contacting the first stop. 31. The welding apparatus of claim 30, wherein the position of the first stop block within the mounted plate is adjustable. 32. The welding apparatus of claim 31, wherein the position of the first stop block within the mounting plate is threadably adjustable. 33. The welding apparatus of claim 23, wherein the travel of the actuator arm is limited, thereby limiting the position of the welding tips in the closed welding position. 34. The welding apparatus of claim 33, herein at least a portion of the actuator arm is threaded, travels in a linear motion, and is fitted with a threaded adjustment ring adapted to contact at least a portion of the mounting plate, thereby limiting the position of the welding tips in the closed welding position. 