A material delivery system is disclosed which is particularly useful for filtered environments, such as clean rooms, minienvironments, or the like. In one embodiment, the material delivery system is disposed below a work area in a clean room-like environment to store parts to be used at the work area. In another embodiment, the material delivery system includes a material delivery elevator for transporting parts to a desired elevational level. In yet another embodiment, the material delivery system includes a cover which is detachably interconnected with a body to define an enclosed material storage area. An assembly is provided to lock the cover down onto the body with a gasket therebetween to appropriately seal this interconnection. This same assembly lifts the cover up and away from the body so as to not damage this gasket. Finally, this same assembly also allows the cover to be rolled off of the body without exposing the gasket to any shear-like forces so as to further reduce the potential for damage to the gasket during removal of the cover from the body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable clean cart that comprises: a sidewall assembly which is disposed continuously about a first vertical reference axis; an interior space defined at least in part by said sidewall assembly; a bottom that is interconnected with a lower portion of said sidewall assembly and that comprises a plurality of perforations; a cover disposable over an open upper portion of said sidewall assembly and movable relative to said open upper portion to expose said open upper portion and thereby provide access to at least a portion of said interior space; and a material delivery elevator disposed within said sidewall assembly, wherein said elevator comprises a platform that is movable toward and away from said open upper portion of said sidewall assembly and that separates said interior space into upper and lower chambers, wherein a space exists between at least a portion of a perimeter of said platform and at least a portion of said sidewall assembly to allow for a flow from said upper chamber to said lower chamber, and wherein said plurality of perforations on said bottom allow said flow that enters into said lower chamber to exit said portable clean cart. 2. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: wheels interconnected with said bottom. 3. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for maintaining a Class 10 environment within said upper chamber. 4. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of trays stacked on said platform, wherein each said tray comprises a plurality of parts. 5. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 4, wherein: each said tray is disposable. 6. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said platform is movable between a lowermost and uppermost position, wherein said lowermost position is disposed at least about 24 inches (60.96 centimeters) below said uppermost position. 7. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said elevator comprises means for disposing said platform in any vertical position relative to said sidewall assembly. 8. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said platform comprises an upper platform surface and each interconnection between said platform and a remainder of said elevator is disposed below said upper platform surface. 9. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said elevator further comprises a plurality of at least substantially vertically disposed rods. 10. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 9, wherein: at least one of said plurality of at least substantially vertically disposed rods is a rotatably driven lead screw. 11. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said platform comprises first, second, third, and fourth corners, said first corner is diagonally disposed from said third corner, said second corner is diagonally disposed from said fourth corner, said elevator comprises first and second lead screws disposed at least substantially at said first and third corners, and said elevator further comprises first and second guide rods disposed at least substantially at said second and fourth corners. 12. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said bottom comprises a gasket which defines a closed boundary, said platform comprises upper and lower surfaces, and said elevator further comprises an extension interconnected with said lower surface of said platform and sealingly engageable with said gasket when said elevator is disposed in its lowermost position within said sidewall assembly and which disengages said gasket to allow a flow through said plurality of perforations when said elevator moves away from said lowermost position. 13. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: all of said plurality of perforations are disposed interiorly of said closed boundary defined by said gasket. 14. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a containment disposed within said sidewall assembly, said elevator being disposed within said containment. 15. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 14, wherein: each interconnection between said platform and a remainder of said elevator is disposed in a space between said containment and said sidewall assembly. 16. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 14, wherein: said containment comprises at least one at least generally vertically extending split seal, wherein a first interconnection between said platform and a remainder of said elevator extends through said split seal. 17. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 14, wherein: said containment comprises a plurality of vertically extending split seals, wherein each interconnection between said platform and a remainder of said elevator extends through one of said split seals. 18. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said elevator comprises a motor disposed within said sidewall assembly vertically between said platform and said bottom, said motor comprises a drive shaft which extends downwardly through said bottom, and said elevator further comprises at least one lead screw which also extends downwardly through said bottom and a continuous loop transfer member which interconnects said drive shaft with said at least one lead screw. 19. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said platform comprises first and second sides, said elevator comprises first and second lead screws interconnected with said first and second sides, respectively, and said elevator further comprises a rotary drive interconnected with each of said first and second lead screws. 20. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 19, further comprising: first and second vertically disposed partitions positioned between said sidewall assembly and said first and second sides, respectively, of said platform, wherein said first and second lead screws are disposed in a space between said sidewall assembly and said first and second partitions, respectively; first and second vertically disposed split seals on said first and second partitions, respectively; and first and second connectors between said platform and said first and second lead screws, respectively, which extend through said first and second split seals, respectively. 21. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: means for isolating said upper chamber from said lower chamber with said material delivery elevator being disposed in a first vertical position and for fluidly connecting said upper chamber with said lower chamber, as well and said plurality of perforations, with said material delivery elevator being disposed in a second vertical position that is different from said first vertical position, wherein said second vertical position is disposed at a higher elevation than said first vertical position. 22. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 21, wherein: said first vertical position defines a lowermost extreme of said material delivery elevator. 23. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said platform comprises upper and lower surfaces, and wherein said elevator further comprises an annular extension interconnected with said lower surface of said platform, wherein said annular extension engages said bottom such that all of said plurality of perforations on said bottom are disposed inwardly of said annular extension when said elevator is disposed in its lowermost position within said sidewall assembly, and wherein said annular extension disengages said bottom to allow a flow through said plurality of perforations by said platform moving away from said lowermost position and toward said open upper portion of said sidewall assembly. 24. A portable clean cart that comprises: a sidewall assembly which is disposed continuously about a first vertical reference axis; an interior defined at least in part by said sidewall assembly; a material delivery elevator disposed within said sidewall assembly, wherein said elevator comprises a vertically movable platform; a body which in turn comprises said sidewall assembly and a first open end, wherein said first open end projects upwardly; a cover removably interconnected with said body and which closes said first open end, wherein said cover comprises a lower surface that projects toward said body when said cover is disposed on said body, and wherein said lower surface comprises a gasket and a plurality of rollers, and a cover lifting assembly, wherein said cover lifting assembly comprises means for displacing said cover away from said body along an at least substantially axial path and in an upward direction to dispose said gasket at a predetermined position above said body and further so as to dispose said plurality of rollers in a position to allow said cover to be rolled off said body. 25. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 24, further comprising: means for maintaining a Class 10 environment within said interior. 26. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 24, wherein: said body comprises at least one cover support surface, wherein said gasket is sealingly engageable with said at least one cover support surface. 27. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 26, wherein: said means for lifting comprises means for reducing degradation of said gasket by operation of said means for lifting. 28. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 26, wherein: said at least one cover support surface comprises at least one first aperture, wherein said cover comprises at least one first extension, wherein each said first extension extends downwardly through its corresponding said first aperture and comprises a first latching member and a first camming member, and wherein said cart further comprises a second latching member for each said first latching member and a second camming member for each said first camming member, wherein each said second latching member and said second camming member is movably interconnected with said body. 29. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 28, wherein: each said first latching member is fixedly interconnected with its own said first camming member to define a first latch/cam pair, wherein each said second latching member is fixedly interconnected with its own said second camming member to define a second latch/cam pair, wherein each second latch/cam pair is movable from a first position to a second position, wherein when each said second latch/cam pair is in said first position, each said first latching member is lockingly engaged with its corresponding said second latching member, and wherein when each said second latch/cam pair is moved from said first position at least toward said second position, each said first latching member becomes disengaged from its corresponding said second latching member and each said second camming member exerts an at least generally upwardly directed force on its corresponding first camming member to dispose said first latch/cam pair out of its corresponding said first aperture. 30. A portable clean cart, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: each said first camming member comprises one of said plurality of rollers, and wherein each said second camming member comprises a first planar surface which is disposed at least substantially parallel with its corresponding said cover support surface by each said second camming member being disposed within its corresponding said first aperture. 