A sheet material conveying apparatus includes a plurality of pockets, each pocket including a setting device for adjusting a height of the pocket when the pocket is stationary so as to define a set height, the setting device including a setting rod, a ring gear having an outer surface connected to the setting rod, and a lock ring selectively releasable from the ring gear, the setting rod including a disengaging device for releasing the lock ring from the ring gear during a setting operation. A method and a sheet material pocket are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sheet material conveying apparatus comprising: a plurality of pockets, each pocket including a setting device for adjusting a height of the pocket so as to define a set height, the setting device including a setting or cam rod, a ring gear having an outer surface connected to the setting rod, and a lock ring selectively releasable from the ring gear, the setting or cam rod including a disengaging device for releasing the lock ring from the ring gear during a setting operation. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a reset station including a movable reset incline ramp and a lock engagement device. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 farther comprising a slide gear rotationally fixed with respect to the ring gear, and selectively releasable from the lock ring. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein the disengaging device includes at least one raised cam section for moving the slide gear away from the lock ring. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the lock ring includes a single point ratchet and the pocket further includes a pawl for interacting with the lock ring. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the setting rod includes at least two preset height notches for permitting an operator to set the pocket height to two different settings. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein the notches interact with a rod support, the rod support being connected to a pocket wall. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the disengaging device includes at least one raised cam section. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the setting rod includes a fine adjustment mechanism. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the disengaging device includes a cam blade. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the setting rod includes curved teeth. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the setting rod includes gear teeth. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the ring gear has a first outer gear section geared to a spring loaded semi-circular gear and a second outer gear section geared to the setting rod. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein the ring gear is rotationally fixed to a slide gear through interior star gearing, the slide gear being rotationally fixed to a shaft. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein the lock ring fits around the shaft, and the slide gear is selectively engageable with the lock ring, by sliding of the slide gear axially with respect to the shaft. 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the setting device includes a setting and a cam rod, the setting rod being pivotable about a pivot support connected to one of the plurality of pockets. 17. A sheet material pocket comprising: a first wall; a second wall spaced apart from the first wall so as to define a sheet material opening; at least one finger movable with respect to the first wall for defining a pocket bottom, the at least one finger releasable so that the pocket bottom opens; a shaft connected to the at least one finger for moving the at least one finger; a slide gear rotationally fixed with respect to the shaft and slidable with respect to the shaft; a ring gear rotationally fixed with respect to the slide gear; and a lock ring selectively engageable with the slide gear. 18. The pocket as recited in claim 17 further comprising a slidable setting rod geared to the ring gear, the setting rod including a disengaging device. 19. The pocket as recited in claim 18 wherein the disengaging device includes a raised cam for moving the slide gear. 20. The pocket as recited in claim 18 wherein the disengaging device includes a cam blade actuated by a rotation of the setting rod. 21. A method for setting a height of a sheet material pocket comprising the steps of: sliding a rod while the pocket is stationary to move fingers of the pocket so as to set the pocket to a set height; moving a gear axially with the rod, the gear thus disengaging a lock mechanism, the lock mechanism remaining fixed during setting; and re-engaging the gear with the lock mechanism. 22. The method as recited in claim 21 where in the rod is moved between at least two predetermined positions. 23. A method for setting a height of a sheet material pocket comprising the steps of: moving a first rod while the pocket is stationary to move fingers of the pocket so as to set the pocket to a set height; moving a gear axially with a second rod, the gear thus disengaging a lock mechanism, the lock mechanism remaining fixed during setting; and re-engaging the gear with the lock mechanism. 