A robot aligning apparatus includes a pointer which may be connected to either the robot or the tool carried by the robot. The apparatus also includes a stationary post having a sleeve mounted thereon. The robot or the tool with the pointer mounted thereon are moved to a test station adjacent the sleeve and post, and the sleeve is moved upwardly over the pointer to indicate proper alignment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot aligning apparatus comprising: a stationary alignment tool mounted in a predetermined stationary position at an alignment station; said alignment tool comprising a fixed member and a movable member, said movable member being movably mounted to said fixed member for movement relative thereto along a straight line alignment axis from a first position to a second position; a robot having a robot member, said robot being programmed to move said robot member to an alignment position adjacent said alignment station; an alignment pointer detachably connected to said robot member for movement with said robot member to said alignment station; said movable member maintaining a fixed clearance distance from said alignment pointer during movement of said movable member from said first to said second position to indicate desirable alignment of said robot in said alignment position; said movable member moving a variable distance from said alignment pointer during movement of said movable member from said first to said second positions to indicate undesirable alignment of said robot in said alignment position. 2. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said movable member includes an elongated bore having bore walls, said pointer protruding within said elongated bore when said movable member is in said second position. 3. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said pointer includes a longitudinal axis and a side surface surrounding and facing away from said longitudinal axis, said fixed clearance distance comprising the distance between said side surface of said pointer and said bore walls of said bore. 4. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said side surface includes first and second flanges spaced apart from one another along said longitudinal axis of said pointer, said first and second flanges having outer flange surfaces which conform in shape to the cross sectional shape of said bore. 5. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said first and second flanges remain at said fixed distance from said side walls of said bore during movement of said movable member from said first to said second position to indicate proper alignment of said robot when in said alignment position. 6. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said first and second flanges move to variable distances from said side walls of said bore during movement of said movable member from said first to said second position to indicate improper alignment of said robot when in said alignment position. 7. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said bore has a circular cross section and said first and second flanges are circular in cross section taken transverse to said longitudinal axis of said pointer. 8. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said robot member comprises a part of said robot. 9. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said robot member comprises a tool attached to said robot. 10. A robot alignment apparatus for use with a robot having a robot member movable to a test position adjacent a test station to test for proper or improper alignment of said robot, said apparatus comprising: an elongated pointer having a longitudinal pointer axis and being adapted for attachment to said robot member for movement to said test position; an alignment tool mounted at said test station, said alignment tool comprising a movable tool member mounted for movement along a straight line axis from an inoperative position to an operative position; said longitudinal pointer axis and said straight line axis extending in the same direction to indicate proper alignment of said robot when said robot is in said test position; said longitudinal pointer axis and said straight line axis extending at an angle with respect to one another to indicate improper alignment of said robot when said robot is in said test position. 11. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said movable tool member includes an elongated tool bore extending along said straight line axis, said pointer being within said tool bore when said movable tool member moves to said operative position and said pointer is in said test position. 12. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said straight line axis and said pointer axis are in registered alignment with one another when said robot is in said test position to indicate proper alignment of said robot. 13. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said movable tool member comprises a sleeve and said tool bore has a cross sectional shape the same as, and larger than, the cross sectional shape of said pointer. 14. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said robot member comprises a part of said robot. 15. A robot alignment apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said robot member comprises a tool attached to said robot. 16. A method for testing the proper alignment of a robot having a movable robot member, comprising: attaching a pointer having a longitudinal pointer axis to said movable robot member; moving said robot member and said pointer to a test position adjacent a test station; moving a movable alignment tool positioned at said test station along a straight line axis from a first position to a second position, whereby the distance between said movable alignment tool and said pointer remains constant throughout movement of said alignment tool between said first and second positions whenever said robot is properly aligned and varies whenever said robot is improperly aligned. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein said pointer axis and said straight line axis extend in the same direction whenever said pointer is in said test position and said robot is properly aligned and extend at angles with respect to one another whenever said robot is improperly aligned. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said pointer axis and said straight-line axis are colinear when said robot is properly aligned. 19. A method according to claim 18 wherein said alignment tool includes a tool bore, said method further comprising moving said movable tool into surrounding relation with respect to said pointer whereby said pointer is within said bore when said movable tool is in said second position. 