An HPLC method which purifies and/or characterizes large numbers of related compounds, for example, those prepared for use in combinatorial libraries, is disclosed. The compounds are purified on a semi-preparative or preparative scale, enabling rapid preparation of combinatorial libraries with minimal operator involvement, and, preferably, with a purity greater than about 90%.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for purifying and/or characterizing one or more organic compounds, comprising the steps of: a) selecting a library of compounds to be purified b) performing a TLC and/or an analytical HPLC on a representative sample of the library, which sample comprises less than ten percent of the library, c) determining a correlated preparative HPLC method depending on how the representative sample elutes off the analytical HPLC column and/or the sample moves on a TLC plate, and d) purifying all or substantially all of the library, wherein the correlated preparative HPLC method is determined based on a correlation between three or more zones of retention times if analytical HPLC is performed and/or three or more zones of retention factors if TLC is performed, such that if substantially all of the compounds in the representative sample fall within a particular zone, a correlated preparative HPLC protocol can be used to purify compounds that fall within the zone. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein both analytical HPLC and TLC are performed in step a. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the representative sample is purified via preparative HPLC before all or substantially all of the library is purified. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein after the representative sample is purified, the purity of the compounds in the sample is determined. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein after the purity is determined, a TLC is performed on between 10 and 100 percent of the library under the same or substantially the same conditions as the TLC performed in step a. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the TLC of the representative sample and the 10 to 100 percent of the library are compared. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein if the TLC of the representative sample and the 10 to 100 percent of the library show that the compounds move into the same zone, then the entire library is purified via preparative HPLC. 8. The method according to claim 6, wherein if the TLC of the representative sample and the 10 to 100 percent of the library show that the compounds do not move into the same zone, then the entire library is purified via preparative HPLC using an alternative method. 9. The method according to claim 5, wherein between 50 and 100 percent of the library is analyzed via TLC. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the representative sample is between 2 and 5 percent of the entire library. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein during the preparative HPLC of all or substantially all of the library, fraction collection is triggered by determining the presence of the compound of interest in a sample which is eluting off of the preparative HPLC column using UV and/or MS detection. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the purity of all or substantially all of the compounds purified via preparative HPLC is greater than 90 percent. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein analytical HPLC is performed, if at all, only on a representative sample prior to performing preparative HPLC. 