A robotic system includes a dexterous robot having robotic joints, angle sensors adapted for measuring joint angles at a corresponding one of the joints, load cells for measuring a set of strain values imparted to a corresponding one of the load cells during a predetermined pose of the robot, and a host machine. The host machine is electrically connected to the load cells and angle sensors, and receives the joint angle values and strain values during the predetermined pose. The robot presses together mating pairs of load cells to form the poses. The host machine executes an algorithm to process the joint angles and strain values, and from the set of all calibration matrices that minimize error in force balance equations, selects the set of calibration matrices that is closest in a value to a pre-specified value. A method for calibrating the load cells via the algorithm is also provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a dexterous robot having a plurality of robotic joints; a plurality of angle sensors each adapted for measuring a joint angle value at a corresponding one of the robotic joints; a plurality of load cells each adapted for measuring at least one strain value imparted to a corresponding one of the load cells during a predetermined pose of the robot; and a host machine that is electrically connected to each of the load cells and to each of the angle sensors, the host machine being configured to receive the joint angles from the angle sensors and the at least one strain value from each of the load cells during the predetermined pose; wherein the robot is adapted for pressing a mating pair of the load cells together to form the predetermined pose, and wherein the host machine is adapted for processing the joint angles and the strain values to thereby determine a set of calibration matrices, and for determining a calibration matrix from the set of calibration matrices that is closest in a value to a pre-specified value. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising an anthropomorphic robotic hand having an opposable thumb and a plurality of fingers, wherein at least one of the load cells are disposed on the thumb and on each of the fingers. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the host machine is adapted for minimizing an error in a set of force-balance equations by calculating the set of calibration matrices for each of the load cells of the mating pair. 4. The robotic system of claim 3, wherein the host machine minimizes the error using a least-squares technique. 5. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the host machine is adapted for determining a common frame of reference for the mating pair using the joint angles corresponding to the mating pair. 6. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the robot is adapted for executing different predetermined poses in succession, and wherein the host machine is adapted for calculating the calibration matrix for each mating load cell pair used in the different predetermined poses. 7. The robotic system of claim 6, including a pre-calibrated load cell separate from the plurality of load cells, wherein the robot is adapted for touching one of the load cells to the pre-calibrated load cell to form one of the different predetermined poses. 8. A host machine adapted for use within a robotic system, the robotic system including a dexterous robot having a plurality of robotic joints, a plurality of angle sensors each adapted for measuring a joint angle value at a corresponding one of the robotic joints, and a plurality of load cells each adapted for measuring a set of strain values during a predetermined pose of the robot, the robot being adapted for pressing a mating pair of the load cells together to form the predetermined pose, the host machine comprising: a hardware module that is electrically connected to each of the load cells and to each of the angle sensors, and configured to receive the joint angles from the angle sensors and the strain values from the load cells during the predetermined pose; and an algorithm for calibrating the load cells using the joint angle values from the angle sensors and the strain values from the load cells, wherein the algorithm is adapted for: measuring the joint angles from the angle sensors and the strain values from the load cells during the predetermined pose, processing the joint angle and the strain values via a host machine to thereby determine a set of calibration matrices; and determining a calibration matrix from the set of calibration matrices that is closest in a value to a pre-specified value. 9. The host machine of claim 8, wherein the host machine is adapted for minimizing an error in a set of force-balance equations by calculating a pair of calibration matrices for each of the load cells of the mating pair. 10. The host machine of claim 9, wherein the host machine minimizes the error using a least-squares technique. 11. The host machine of claim 8, wherein the host machine is adapted for determining a common frame of reference for the mating pair using the joint angles corresponding to the mating pair. 12. The host machine of claim 8, wherein the robot is adapted for executing different predetermined poses in succession, and wherein the host machine is adapted for calculating a calibration matrix for each mating load cell pair used in the different predetermined poses. 13. A method for calibrating load cells in a dexterous robot having a plurality of robotic joints, a plurality of angle sensors each adapted for measuring a joint angle value at a corresponding one of the robotic joints, a plurality of load cells each adapted for measuring a set of strain values imparted to a corresponding one of the load cells during a predetermined pose of the robot, the method comprising: pressing together a mating pair of the load cells to form the predetermined pose; measuring the joint angles from the angle sensors and the strain values from the load cells during the predetermined pose; processing the joint angle and the strain values via a host machine to thereby determine a set of calibration matrices; and determining a calibration matrix from the set of calibration matrices that is closest in a value to a pre-specified value. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the robot includes a finger and a thumb each having one of the load cells, and wherein pressing together a mating pair of the load cells includes pressing together the respective load cells of the finger and thumb. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: minimizing an error in a set of force-balance equations by calculating the set of calibration matrices for each of the load cells of the mating pair. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining a common frame of reference for the mating pair using the joint angles corresponding to the mating pair. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising: executing different predetermined poses in succession; and calculating the calibration matrix for each mating load cell pair used in the different predetermined poses. 