A method and apparatus is disclosed for staging or cooling a substrate between high temperature thermal processing steps. In the disclosed embodiment, one or more cooling stations are located off-line within a wafer handling chamber, outside the thermal processing chamber. After thermal processing, a hot wafer can be loaded on to one station, where the wafer is subjected to forced convection cooling. In particular, the wafer is subjected to cooling gas from above and below through perforated upper and lower showerhead assemblies. The wafer can thus be cooled rapidly on a station while other wafers are transferred into and out of the processing chamber, Desirably, the wafer is cooled on the station to a point at which it can be handled by a low temperature wafer handler and stored in a low temperature cassette.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of cooling semiconductor substrates subjected to high temperatures comprising: withdrawing a hot substrate from a process chamber; positioning the hot substrate on a support between two opposing showerheads; spraying inert coolant from the showerheads onto opposite sides of the substrate; and removing the substrate from the support to a storage area. 2. A method of cooling substrates that have been subjected to high temperature semiconductor processing, comprising: providing a substrate handler in a handling chamber, the substrate handler capable of transporting substrates into and out of a high temperature process chamber; withdrawing a first substrate from the process chamber with said substrate handler and transporting the first substrate into a cooling station within and open to the handling chamber; and inserting a second substrate into the process chamber with said handler while the first substrate is cooling in the cooling station. 3. A method of cooling a hot substrate that has been subjected to high temperatures in a chamber, comprising: removing the hot substrate from the chamber with a substrate handler; moving the handler and the hot substrate to a position between upper and lower showerheads; depositing the substrate on spaced supports configured to position the substrate between and spaced from the showerheads; withdrawing the handler from between the showerheads leaving the substrate on the supports; and spraying gaseous coolant from the showerheads onto generally flat upper and lower surfaces of the substrate. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein removing, moving, and depositing are performed with a Bernoulli wand which is positioned above the substrate and lifts the substrate without contacting said upper and lower surfaces of the substrate. 5. A method of cooling substrates that have been subjected to high temperature semiconductor processing, comprising: providing a substrate handler in a handling chamber, the substrate handler capable of transporting substrates into and out of a high temperature process chamber; withdrawing a first substrate from the process chamber with said substrate handler and transporting the first substrate into a cooling station within and open to the handling chamber; inserting a second substrate into the process chamber with said handler while the first substrate is cooling in the cooling station, and removing the first substrate from the cooling station while the second substrate is processed within the process chamber. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising retrieving a third substrate with said handler while the second substrate is processed within the process chamber. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: withdrawing the second substrate from the process chamber with said substrate handler and transporting the second substrate into the cooling station; and inserting the third substrate into the process chamber with said handler while the second substrate is cooling in the cooling station. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the third substrate is staged upon a station within the handling chamber while the second substrate is withdrawn. 9. An apparatus for cooling a semiconductor substrate comprising: first and second showerheads spaced from each other and oriented towards each other so that fluid sprayed from the heads is sprayed towards each other; and a support for supporting said substrate between said showerheads, said support being configured to cause fluid from said showerhead to spray onto opposite flat sides of said substrate. 10. An apparatus for cooling a substrate after a high temperature processing comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which the substrate may be moved from the handling chamber into and out of a high temperature process chamber; an automatic substrate handler in the handling chamber for transporting the substrate into and out of the process chamber; and a first cooling station in which a processed substrate may be moved by said handler to be cooled, said station being located in a section of the handling chamber out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be placed in the process chamber while a first substrate is being cooled in the cooling station, wherein said first cooling station includes upper and lower gas showerheads spaced from each other, and including supports for supporting the substrate between the showerheads and spaced from the showerheads, each of said showerheads being adapted to be connected to a source of cooling gas to enable cooling gas to be projected through openings in said showerheads onto the upper and lower surface of the substrate to cool the substrate. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, including a second cooling station accessible by the handler and located out of the path of the handler movement to enable the substrate handler to move a third substrate to the process chamber while the second substrate is in said second cooling station. 12. An apparatus for cooling a substrate after a high temperature processing comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which the substrate may be moved from the handling chamber into and out of a high temperature process chamber; an automatic substrate handler in the handling chamber for transporting the substrate into and out of the process chamber; and a first cooling station in which a processed substrate may be moved by said handler to be cooled, said station being located in a section of the handling chamber out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be placed in the process chamber while a first substrate is being cooled in the cooling station; a second cooling station accessible by the handler and located out of the path of the handler movement to enable the substrate handler to move a third substrate to the process chamber while the second substrate is in said second cooling station, wherein one of said cooling stations is located on each side of the port leading to the process chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the cooling stations are positioned about 100 degrees apart such that the substrate handler only needs to be rotated about 50 degrees from the process chamber port to alignment with one of the cooling stations. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said substrate handler includes a first end-effector for transfer of the substrates into and out of a storage cassette and includes a second end effector for transferring the substrates among said first end-effector, said cooling stations and said process chamber. 15. An apparatus for cooling substrates after high temperature processing, comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which the substrates may be moved into and out of a high temperature, single-substrate process chamber; an automatic substrate handler for transporting the substrates into and out of the process chamber; and a cooling station into which a processed substrate may be moved by said handler to be cooled after removal from the process chamber, said station being located out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be placed in the process chamber while the processed substrate is being cooled, said cooling station including upper and lower gas showerheads spaced from each other, and including a support for supporting the processed substrate between the showerheads and spaced from the showerheads, each of said showerheads being adapted to be connected to a source of cooling gas to enable cooling gas to be projected through openings in said showerheads onto an upper surface and a lower surface of the processed substrate to cool the processed substrate, said cooling station being located within and open to said substrate handling chamber. 16. An apparatus for cooling substrates after a high temperature processing, comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which substrates may be moved between the handling chamber and a high temperature process chamber; an automatic substrate handler for transporting substrates into and out of the process chamber; a fixed first cooling station in which a processed substrate may be moved by the handler to be cooled after removal from the process chamber, the station being located out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be placed in the process chamber while the processed substrate is being cooled; and a fixed second cooling station accessible by the handler but located out of the path of the handler movement to enable the wafer handler to move the second substrate to the process chamber while the first substrate is in the second cooling station, wherein one of the cooling stations is located on each side of the port leading to the process chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the cooling stations are positioned about 100.degree. apart such that the wafer handler only needs to be rotated about 50.degree. from the process chamber port to alignment with one of the cooling stations. 