A picker for data cartridges in a computer information storage library. The picker includes a sleeve for transporting data cartridges, a thumb that can move in one dimension relative to the sleeve, and a single pivoting finger on the thumb. The single finger has an inboard pivot point which results in a self locking action (pulling makes the finger grip tighter). The finger has an armed state for gripping and a splayed state for release. Switching between states is passive, depending only on one dimensional motion of the thumb relative to the sleeve. The finger has a post that travels in tracks in the sleeve. Switching tracks switches finger states. A spring loaded gate in the tracks enables track switching. Potential cartridge wear and binding problems during extraction are eliminated by providing sleeve guides that limit cartridge rotation, by providing a concave guide surface in storage locations, and by proper selection of materials. A corresponding drive has a handle that must be manipulated. The picker includes thumb details for manipulating the drive handle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A picker for extracting a data cartridge from a storage location, comprising: a sleeve; a thumb, adapted for movement relative to the sleeve; a finger mounted on the thumb; a post on the finger; a first track in the sleeve, the first track adapted to receive the post, wherein when the post is in the first track, the finger is positioned to grip the data cartridge; a second track in the sleeve, the second track adapted to receive the post, wherein when the post is in the second track, the finger is positioned to release the data cartridge; and a gate, spring loaded between the first track and the second track, wherein when the post is in the first track and the thumb is moved to a first predetermined position, the post deflects the gate, enabling the post to move past the gate into the second track, even when no data cartridge is being gripped. 2. The picker of claim 1, further comprising: a connecting track between the first track and the second track, wherein when the post is in the second track and the thumb is moved to a second predetermined position, the post is guided along the connecting track to the first track. 3. A picker for extracting a data cartridge from a storage location, the storage location having an end, the data cartridge having a side wall with an opening in the side wall, the picker comprising: a sleeve; a single finger, moveable relative to the sleeve, the finger having a tip and a hook surface on the tip, the hook surface on the tip adapted to engage the opening in the side wall of the data cartridge; a first guide wall on the sleeve; and wherein when the cartridge is pulled away from the storage location by the finger, the first guide wall on the sleeve is positioned so that a comer of the data cartridge touches the first guide wall on the sleeve, limiting rotation of the data cartridge and preventing the data cartridge from pivoting around the end of the first storage location. 4. The picker of claim 3, the data cartridge having a width, the picker further comprising: an inner section on the first guide wall; a second guide wall on the sleeve; the second guide wall parallel with the inner section on the first guide wall; and the second guide wall spaced from the inner section on the first guide wall by a distance greater than the width of the data cartridge. 5. The picker of claim 3 further comprising: a post on the finger, the post extending toward the sleeve; a first track in the sleeve, the first track adapted to receive the post, wherein when the post is in the first track, the finger is positioned to grip the data cartridge; and a second track in the sleeve, the second track adapted to receive the post, wherein when the post is in the second track, the finger is positioned to release the data cartridge. 6. The picker of claim 5, further comprising: a thumb, adapted for movement relative to the sleeve, the finger mounted on the thumb; a gate, spring loaded between the first track and the second track, wherein when the post is in the first track and the thumb is moved to a first predetermined position, the post is forced past the gate into the second track. 7. The picker of claim 6, further comprising: a connecting track between the first track and the second track, wherein when the post is in the second track and the thumb is moved to a second predetermined position, the post is guided along the connecting track to the first track. 8. A picker for extracting a data cartridge from a drive mechanism, the drive mechanism including a handle, the picker comprising: a thumb having a first extension and a second extension; wherein when the thumb is positioned so that the handle is between the first extension and the second extension, the thumb is moved in a first direction causing the first extension to contact the handle and to move the handle from an unlatched position to a latched position or the thumb is moved in a second direction causing the second extension to contact the handle and to move the handle from the latched position to the unlatched position. 9. A picker for extracting a data cartridge from a storage location, comprising: a sleeve; a thumb, the thumb moveable within the sleeve, within a range of movement along a path, the range of movement having a first end and a second end; wherein when the thumb is near the first end and when the cartridge is being gripped, the cartridge is fully within the sleeve; wherein when the thumb is near the second end and when the cartridge is being gripped, the cartridge extends outside the sleeve; a finger, mounted on the thumb, the finger having an armed state for gripping and a splayed state for release; wherein when the finger is in the armed state, movement of the thumb along the path near the first end causes the finger to be switched to the splayed state; and wherein when the finger is in the splayed state, movement of the thumb along the path near the first end causes the finger to be switched to the armed state. 10. The picker of claim 9 further comprising: the finger having a post; the sleeve having a first track, adapted to guide the post, wherein when the post is in the first track the finger is in the armed state; the sleeve having a second track, adapted to guide the post, wherein when the post is in the second track the finger is in the splayed state; a connecting track connecting the first and second tracks; a gate that is moveable, between the first and second tracks; wherein when the post is in the first track, movement of the post in a first direction causes the post to deflect the gate and the post moves to the second track; and wherein when the post is in the second track, movement of the post in the first direction causes to post to pass through the connecting track to the first track. 