Specific embodiments of the present invention are directed to a chemical mechanical planarization apparatus which comprises a platen assembly for holding an object to be planarized, and a polishing pad having a surface size at least as large as a surface size of the object, the polishing pad being movable relative to the object. A table has a surface supporting the polishing pad and including a plurality of grooves forming a patterned surface. In some embodiments, the grooves form a repeated pattern on the surface of the table. The pattern may include a plurality of platelets having the same shape and size. The platelets may be hexagonal and vertically compliant. The surface of the table is harder than the polishing pad.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A chemical mechanical planarization apparatus comprising: a platen assembly for holding an object to be planarized; a polishing pad having a surface size at least as large as a surface size of the object, the polishing pad being movable relative to the object; and a table having a surface supporting the polishing pad, the surface including a plurality of grooves forming a patterned surface, wherein the grooves form a repeated pattern on the surface of the table, and wherein the pattern includes a plurality of platelets having the same shape and size. 2. A chemical mechanical planarization apparatus comprising: a platen assembly for holding an object to be planarized; a polishing pad having a surface size at least as large as a surface size of the object, the polishing pad being movable relative to the object; a table having a surface supporting the polishing pad, the surface including a plurality of grooves forming a patterned surface; and a compliant support layer between the surface of the table and the polishing pad. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the grooves form a repeated pattern on the surface of the table. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the pattern includes a plurality of platelets having the same shape and size. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the platelets are hexagonal. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the platelets are vertically compliant. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the surface of the table is harder than the polishing pad. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the compliant support layer comprises a compliant solid material. 9. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the compliant support layer comprises a fluid. 10. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the platen assembly comprises a compliant backing to support the object to be planarized. 11. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the platen assembly is configured to rotate the object around an axis perpendicular to a surface of the object to be planarized. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the platen assembly is configured to rotate the object at about 18-19 rpm. 13. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the grooves are about 1.5-2 inches in dimension. 14. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the table comprises granite. 15. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the table comprises a porous ceramic. 16. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the table is rotatable around a table axis perpendicular to the surface of the table. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the table is rotatable at about 18-19 rpm. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the platelets are hexagonal. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the platelets are vertically compliant. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the surface of the table is harder than the polishing pad. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the platen assembly comprises a compliant backing to support the object to be planarized. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the platen assembly is configured to rotate the object around an axis perpendicular to a surface of the object to be planarized. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the platen assembly is configured to rotate the object at about 18-19 rpm. 24. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the grooves are about 1.5-2 inches in dimension. 25. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the table comprises granite. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the table comprises a porous ceramic. 27. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the table is rotatable around a table axis perpendicular to the surface of the table. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the table is rotatable at about 18-19 rpm. 