An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle includes a prismatic reflective element with an attachment plate attached thereto, and a display-on-demand display disposed behind the prismatic reflective element and operable to display information for viewing through a transflective mirror reflector of the prismatic reflective element by a driver of the vehicle. A mounting assembly is configured to mount the mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle. The mounting assembly includes a toggle portion and an actuator, with the toggle portion pivotally mounting to a first mounting member and the actuator pivotally mounting to a second mounting member of the attachment plate. An electronic circuitry element is attached to the attachment plate and an accessory pod is attached to the mounting assembly and includes circuitry therein. The circuitry of the accessory pod is electrically connected to the electronic circuitry element.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle, said interior rearview mirror assembly comprising: a reflective element, said reflective element comprising a prismatic reflective element, wherein said prismatic reflective element comprises a transflective mirror reflector; a display-on-demand display disposed behind said prismatic reflective element and operable to display information for viewing through said transflective mirror reflector of said prismatic reflective element by a driver of the vehicle when said interior rearview mirror assembly is normally mounted in the vehicle; a mounting assembly that is configured to mount said mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle, said mounting assembly including a toggle portion and an actuator; an attachment plate secured to said reflective element; an electronic circuitry element attached to said attachment plate, said attachment plate including first and second mounting members; wherein a portion of said toggle portion pivotally engages said first mounting member and wherein said actuator pivotally engages said second mounting member; an accessory pod attached to said mounting assembly, wherein said accessory pod includes circuitry therein, said circuitry being electrically connected to said electronic circuitry element; and wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a circuit board and wherein said circuit board comprises one of a substantially rigid circuit board and a flexible circuit board. 2. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said first mounting member comprises a pair of receiving members for pivotally receiving respective portions of said toggle portion. 3. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said actuator engages said mounting assembly. 4. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 3, wherein said actuator includes a receiving portion that receives a guide portion of said toggle portion. 5. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said accessory pod comprises a compass pod receiving compass circuitry therein. 6. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said accessory pod comprises a unitarily formed pod that receives said circuitry therein and closes to substantially retain said circuitry within said pod. 7. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said circuit board comprises a substantially rigid circuit board. 8. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said circuit board comprises a flexible circuit board. 9. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a printed circuit board. 10. An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle, said interior rearview mirror assembly comprising: a reflective element, said reflective element comprising a prismatic reflective element, wherein said prismatic reflective element comprises a transflective mirror reflector; a display-on-demand display disposed behind said prismatic reflective element and operable to display information for viewing through said transflective mirror reflector of said prismatic reflective element by a driver of the vehicle when said interior rearview mirror assembly is normally mounted in the vehicle; a mounting assembly that is configured to mount said mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle, said mounting assembly including a toggle portion and an actuator; an attachment plate secured to said reflective element; an electronic circuitry element attached to said attachment plate, said attachment plate including first and second mounting members; wherein a portion of said toggle portion pivotally engages said first mounting member; an accessory pod attached to said mounting assembly, wherein said accessory pod comprises a unitarily formed pod that receives circuitry therein and closes to substantially retain said circuitry within said pod, said circuitry being electrically connected to said electronic circuitry element; and wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a printed circuit board. 11. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 10, wherein said first mounting member comprises a pair of receiving members for pivotally receiving respective portions of said toggle portion. 12. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 10, wherein said actuator pivotally engages said second mounting member. 13. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 12, wherein said actuator engages said mounting assembly. 14. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 13, wherein said actuator includes a receiving portion that receives a guide portion of said toggle portion. 15. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 10, wherein said accessory pod comprises a compass pod receiving compass circuitry therein, 16. An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle, said interior rearview mirror assembly comprising: a reflective element, said reflective element comprising a prismatic reflective element, wherein said prismatic reflective element comprises a transflective mirror reflector; a display-on-demand display disposed behind said prismatic reflective element and operable to display information for viewing through said transflective mirror reflector of said prismatic reflective element by a driver of the vehicle when said interior rearview mirror assembly is normally mounted in the vehicle; a mounting assembly that is configured to mount said mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle, said mounting assembly including a toggle portion and an actuator; an attachment plate secured to said reflective element; an electronic circuitry element attached to said attachment plate, said attachment plate including first and second mounting members; wherein a portion of said toggle portion pivotally engages said first mounting member, and wherein said first mounting member comprises a pair of receiving members for pivotally receiving respective portions of said toggle portion; a compass pod attached to said mounting assembly, wherein said compass pod comprises a unitarily formed pod that receives compass circuitry therein and closes to substantially retain said compass circuitry within said compass pod, said compass circuitry being electrically connected to said electronic circuitry element; and wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a circuit board and wherein said circuit board comprises one of a substantially rigid circuit board and a flexible circuit board. 17. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 16, wherein said actuator pivotally engages said second mounting member. 18. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 17, wherein said actuator engages said mounting assembly. 19. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 18, wherein said actuator includes a receiving portion that receives a guide portion of said toggle portion. 