The apparatus for sealing face plates (753) and cathodes (754) has three stations (701, 702, 703). The first (701) is a preheater, the second (702) is an alignment and irradiation station and the third (703) is a controlled cooling station. Beneath each station, a vacuum pump (710) capable of drawing ultralow pressures is provided. The preheater is equipped with upper and lower banks of radiant heaters and reflectors (712). The upper heaters are Provided above a quartz: window (713) of a chamber (714) constituting the station. The pressure in the preheater is pumped down to that in the alignment and irradiation station prior to opening of the gate valve between them and transfer of the face plate and cathode. At the alignment and irradiation station, further heaters (716) are provided. Those above the face plate and cathode, the face plate being uppermost, are mounted on frames (717) about hinges (718), whereby they can be swung up to clear this station's top quartz window, exposing the face plate to the view of an optical system (719) and a laser (720). Manipulation controls (722) are provided for manipulating the position of the face plate to be pixel alignment, as measured by the optical system (719), with the cathode. The laser is traversed around further. The cooling station (703) has meanwhile been pumped down and the sealed device is transferred to it. The temperature of the device is allowed to rise very slowly, in order to reduce the risk of thermal cracking to as great an extent as possible. As the temperature slowly falls, air is slowly introduced, so that the finished device can be removed to the ambient surroundings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sealing a visual display having: at least one field emission device including an emission layer on a substrate; a glass face plate carrying excitable phosphor material; and fused sealing material peripherally sealing the face plate to the emission device(s), whereby the face plate is parallelly spaced from the emission layer, the method consisting in the steps of: evacuating the display so as to evacuate the space between the emission layer and the face plate to a vacuum at which they can be sealed together, the evacuation being carried out with the glass face plate and the field emission device spaced from each other; positioning the face plate and the field emission device in their relative X/Y (pixel to pixel alignment) position subsequently to the start of the evacuation; positioning the face plate and the field emission device in their relative Z (separation) position subsequently to the evacuation to the sealing vacuum; and irradiating a peripheral region of the face plate to fuse the sealing material, thereby sealingly securing the face plate to the emission device(s). 2. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of positioning the face plate in pixel to pixel alignment with the emission device is performed by robotic manipulation. 3. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the emission device is supported on a carrier and the method includes the step of preliminarily sealing the device to the carrier. 4. A sealing method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the carrier supports a plurality of emission devices and the method includes the steps of: positioning the emission devices in pixel line alignment and provisionally securing the devices with respect to the carrier, prior to sealing, by means of wedges between the emission devices and peripheral portions of the carrier. 5. A sealing method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the emission device(s) are sealed to the carrier by soldering, the device(s) and the carrier being heated for melting of the solder and cooled for setting of it. 6. A sealing method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the cooling is provided on evacuation of a vacuum chamber with an outlet from the chamber directing air flow from the chamber to the solder joint for its cooling. 7. A sealing method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the carrier and emission device(s) are heated for soldering to above the melting point of the solder prior to loading into the vacuum chamber. 8. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the irradiation is performed by traversing along the sealing material with an irradiation source, the traversing being by movement of the irradiation source or the face plate and emission device(s) or both. 9. A sealing method as claimed in claim 8, wherein preliminarily to the traversing, irradiation is carried out at spaced intervals around the fusible sealing material to tack the face plate in position. 10. A sealing method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a plurality of lasers are used for the irradiation step, either in sequence to assure complete fusing of the frit and/or at opposite positions to allow speedy traverse. 11. A sealing method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the evacuation is continued during the irradiation step, and wherein frit is so shaped as to be able to bridge a face plate/carrier gap established by the height of spacers between the face plate and the emission layer of the emission device(s). 12. A sealing method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the face plate and emission device are heated to elevated temperature during the laser irradiation. 13. A sealing method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the elevated temperature is lower than that at which the emission device is soldered to another component. 14. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sealing material is fusible glass frit, and the irradiation step is performed with a laser. 15. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sealing material is fusible under ultra-violet light, and the irradiation step is performed by an ultra-violet light source. 16. A sealing method as claimed in claim 15, wherein a peripheral glass wall is provided with UV curable adhesive at one surface in abutment with the face plate and at an opposite surface in contact with the carrier or the emission device and the irradiation fuses the adhesive at both surfaces. 17. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the evacuation and irradiation steps are carried out in the same station as the positioning of the face plate. 18. A sealing method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the evacuation and irradiation steps are carried out at sequential stations. 19. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, including preliminary cleaning of the face plate and/or the emission device(s) by irradiating it or them with one or more electron beams and/or ion streams. 20. A sealing method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the irradiation is carried out with a field emission device. 21. A sealing method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the cleaning is carried out under partial or complete vacuum. 22. A sealing method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the cleaning is carried out in air. 23. A sealing method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the sealed visual display is cooled at a station sequential to that at which the irradiation step is performed. 24. A sealing method as claimed in claim 1, including a step subsequent to irradiation for sealing of irradiation of an activatable getter for final evacuation of the display. 25. A sealing method as claimed in claim 24, wherein the getter irradiation is by laser. 26. A sealing apparatus for sealing a visual display having a field emission device with an emission layer on a substrate and a face plate with excitable phosphor material, the apparatus being wherein it comprises: a vacuum chamber; means in the vacuum chamber for supporting the field emission device and the face plate juxtaposed in pixel to pixel alignment, the support means including means for positioning the face plate and the field emission device in their relative Z (separation) position subsequently to the evacuation to the sealing vacuum; and an irradiation device adapted and arranged to irradiate sealing material provided on the device or the face plate thereby fusing the material to seal the visual display. 27. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the vacuum chamber includes its own evacuation pump. 28. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the irradiation device is mounted inside the vacuum chamber. 29. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the irradiation device is mounted outside the vacuum chamber, the chamber being provided with a window through which the irradiation can pass. 30. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 29, wherein at least some heaters of the vacuum chamber are arranged outside the window provided for the irradiation to enter the chamber. 31. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 30, wherein the said heaters arranged outside the window are so arranged on a frame that they can be swung clear of the window to expose it to the irradiation device. 32. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the irradiation device is a laser. 33. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the irradiation device is an ultra-violet light source. 34. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein the support means includes a manipulator for manoeuvering one of the field emission device and the face plate into pixel to pixel alignment with the other, and the apparatus includes means for measuring the relative position of the emission device and the face plate, whereby the manipulator can position them in pixel to pixel alignment. 35. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, including heater(s) for heating the emission device and face plate prior to irradiation. 36. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, including a pre-heating and preliminary evacuation chamber provided with heater(s), an evacuation pump and means for transferring the emission device and face plate to the vacuum chamber. 37. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 36, wherein the transfer means are adapted to transfer the emission device(s) as assembled onto a carrier. 38. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 37, wherein the heaters of the preliminary evacuation chamber are adapted to heat the emission device(s) and the carrier to sufficient temperature to melt solder and the evacuation means is adapted to direct evacuated air flow to the solder region to cool it after melting. 39. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 38, including means for manoeuvering the emission device(s) with respect to the carrier for their soldering desired relative position. 40. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, including a cooling chamber provided with means for controlling the cooling of the visual display and means for transferring the visual display from the vacuum chamber to the cooling chamber. 41. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, including a robotic input station and removable input pods adapted to be connected thereto, the removable input pods being adapted to accommodate a plurality of emission devices and face plates in cassettes themselves removably mounted in the input pods, and the robotic input station being adapted to unload the emission devices and the face plates from the input pods for processing in the apparatus. 42. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 41, wherein the pods are adapted to receive removable cassettes containing the emission devices and the face plates respectively. 43. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 41, wherein the removable input pods include means for their heating and/or evacuation. 44. A sealing apparatus as claimed in claim 26, including a robotic output station and a removable output pod, the robotic output station being adapted to remove sealed displays from the vacuum chamber and load them into the output pod, the latter having means for controllably returning the sealed displays to ambient pressure and temperature. 