An article piercing end effector for an industrial robot. The end effector includes a mounting bracket designed to be coupled to the arm of a robot. Positioned on the bracket is an actuator that is coupled to and controls the movement of a first plate. The first plate is supported by two guide rods coupled to the actuator. The first plate includes a plurality of pairs of opposed forks removably mounted to its underside of the first plate. Positioned below the first plate is a second plate with a plurality of holes generally aligned with the tips of each of the pair of opposed forks. The second plate is fixedly attached to the mounting bracket by standoff rods. When the first plate is moved by the actuator toward the second plate, the forks extending from the first plate travel through the holes in the second plate, which holes are chamfered for easy operation. The tips of the forks thus move towards each other to pierce items of interest, such as baked goods positioned below the second plate. The pierced items are thus held by the pairs of opposed forks and may be moved from one location to another. To remove the items from the end effector, the first plate is moved away from the second plate, causing the forks to be removed from the items as the items come in contact with the bottom surface of the second plate.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector comprising: a bracket capable of being coupled to a robot; a first plate coupled to the bracket, the first plate having a first top surface and a second bottom surface, the second surface having a plurality of forks attached thereto; a second plate located in facing relation to the first plate and connected to the bracket, the second plate having a plurality of guiding holes positioned generally in line with the forks attached to the second surface of the first plate; and wherein the first plate is movable by an actuator between an open position relatively far from the second plate and a closed position closer to the second plate. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the bracket is an L-shaped mounting bracket having a horizontal portion connected to the actuator and a vertical portion designed to be coupled to a robot arm. 3. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the actuator includes at least two guide rods and a main cylinder having a fluid-driven piston with a piston rod movable within the main cylinder. 4. The end effector of claim 3, wherein the first plate is supported by the at least two guide rods and moved by the piston. 5. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the second plate is fixed to the bracket with at least two standoff rods. 6. The end effector of claim 5, wherein the first plate includes at least two clearance holes formed therein, each clearance hole receiving one of the standoff rods to allow movement of the first plate between the bracket and the second plate. 7. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the forks are removably attached to the second surface of the first plate by retainer blocks. 8. The end effector of claim 7, wherein each fork is an inverted U-shaped member with a horizontal portion and at least two curved tines extending downwardly from the horizontal portion. 9. The end effector of claim 8, wherein each retainer block includes a groove formed therein for holding the horizontal portion of the forks when fastened to the second surface of the first plate. 10. The end effector of claim 1, wherein each fork is paired with another fork to form pairs of opposed forks when attached to the first plate. 11. The end effector of claim 10, wherein the pairs of opposed forks are positioned so that the curved tines of each fork in the pair are curved concavely with respect to the opposite fork, so that the tips of the forks are substantially pointed toward each other. 12. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the guiding holes are chamfered for guiding the tines of the forks through the holes when the first plate moves toward the second plate. 13. The end effector of claim 12, wherein, the tips of the curved tines move approximately along a 45 degree line with respect to a longitudinal axis as the first plate moves toward the second plate and the tines extend through the guide holes in the second plate. 14. An end effector for use with a robot, the end effector comprising: a bracket capable of being coupled to a robot arm; an actuator mounted to the bracket; a plurality of standoff rods mounted to the bracket; a first plate coupled to the actuator, the first plate having a plurality of clearance holes formed therein, and first and second surfaces, each clearance hole receiving one of the standoff rods and the second surface having a matrix of pairs of opposed forks mounted on the second surface, each fork having at least two curved tines, and tips at the ends of the tines; a second plate fixed to the standoff rods mounted to the bracket, the second plate having a plurality of holes formed therein and positioned to correspond with the matrix of pairs of opposed forks, so that the tips from each of the tines is positioned at least partially within each of the holes; and wherein the first plate is movable by the actuator from an open position to a closed position with respect to the second plate. 15. The end effector of claim 14, wherein the curvature of the tines coacts with the holes to cause the tines in each pair of opposed forks to move toward each other as the first plate moves toward the closed position. 16. The end effector of claim 15, wherein the tips of the tines in each pair of opposed forks move toward each other approximately along a 45 degree line with respect to a longitudinal axis as the first plate is moved toward the second plate by the actuator. 17. The end effector of claim 14, wherein the holes are chamfered and wherein the curvature of the tines coacts with the chamfered holes to cause the tines in each pair of opposed forks to move toward each other as the first plate moves toward the closed position. 18. The end effector of claim 14, wherein the forks and first and second plates are constructed from stainless steel. 19. The end effector of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of retainer blocks mounted to the second surface of the first plate, wherein each block includes a channel formed therein for holding one of the plurality of forks. 20. An end effector comprising: a bracket capable of being coupled to a robot; an actuator mounted to the bracket; a plurality of standoff rods mounted to the bracket; a first plate coupled to the actuator, the first plate having a plurality of clearance holes formed therein for receiving one of the plurality of standoff rods, and first and second surfaces, the second surface having a plurality of pairs of opposed forks removably mounted to the second surface, and each fork having at least one curved tine; and a second plate fixed to the standoff rods attached to the bracket, the second plate positioned in facing relation to the first plate and having a plurality of guiding holes extending through the plate to allow the plurality of pairs of opposed forks to travel through the holes. 21. The end effector of claim 20, wherein the guiding holes are chamfered and positioned below the forks so that each tine is at least partially within each of the chamfered guiding holes as the first plate moves toward and away from the second plate during operation of the end effector. 