Medical, surgical, and/or robotic devices and systems often including offset remote center parallelogram manipulator linkage assemblies which constrains a position of a surgical instrument during minimally invasive robotic surgery are disclosed. The improved remote center manipulator linkage assembly advantageously enhances the range of instrument motion while at the same time reduces the overall complexity, size, and physical weight of the robotic surgical system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a mounting base; a parallelogram linkage base having a proximal end, a distal end, and a linkage axis coupling the proximal and distal ends, the parallelogram linkage base proximal end coupled to the mounting base, the parallelogram linkage base proximal end further rotatable relative to the mounting base about a first axis, the linkage axis and the first axis intersecting at the parallelogram linkage base proximal end; a first link having a proximal end and a distal end, the first link proximal end coupled to the parallelogram linkage base distal end; a second link having a proximal end and a distal end, the second link proximal end coupled to the first link distal end, the second link constrained from rotating relative to the parallelogram linkage base; and an instrument holder coupled to the second link distal end, the instrument holder constrained from rotating relative to the first link, the instrument holder configured to slide along an insertion axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the insertion axis intersects the first axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, the apparatus further comprising an instrument releasably coupleable to the instrument holder, the instrument having a longitudinal axis, the sliding of the instrument holder along the insertion axis causing the instrument to slide along the instrument longitudinal axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, the second link being bent at an angle. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, the second link being bent at an angle of about 22 degrees. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, the first link and the second link being offset in different planes. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the insertion axis is skew from the first axis. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, the second link constrained from rotating relative to the parallelogram linkage base by flexible elements running on pulleys attached to the second link and the parallelogram linkage base. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, the instrument holder constrained from rotating relative to the first link by flexible elements running on pulleys. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of motors housed in the first link. 