A surgical instrument includes an actuator, a tool, and a positioning apparatus. The positioning apparatus includes a gear link structure operably coupling the tool to the actuator for moving the tool in a first direction defining a first degree of freedom and in a second direction defining a second degree of freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument comprising: an actuator; a tool; and a positioning apparatus including a gear link structure having a first gear linkage assembly operably coupling said tool to said actuator for moving said tool in a first direction defining a first degree of freedom and a second gear linkage assembly operably coupling said tool to said actuator for moving said tool in a second direction defining a second degree of freedom; wherein said positioning apparatus further includes a tool actuating assembly coupling said tool to said actuator to move said tool in a third direction defining a third degree of freedom, and said tool actuating assembly further includes a cable located adjacent said first gear linkage assembly. 2. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein said positioning apparatus defines a longitudinal axis and movement of said tool within said first degree of freedom includes angular displacement of said tool relative to said longitudinal axis. 3. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein said first gear linkage assembly includes: a first link; a second link; a first gear pack coupling said first link and said second link; a third link coupled to said second link for rotation relative thereto; a fourth link coupled to said first link for rotation relative thereto; and a second gear pack coupling said fourth link and said third link. 4. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein said first gear linkage assembly includes: a first link having a first gear centered about a first axis; a second link having a second gear centered about a second axis, said second link coupled to said first link for rotation about said first axis; a third link having a first end and a second end, a third gear at said first end and centered about a third axis, said third link coupled to said second link such that said third axis aligns with said second axis; a fourth link having a first end and a second end, a fourth gear at said first end of said fourth link and centered about a fourth axis, said fourth gear intermeshed with said second gear, said tool coupled to said second end of said fourth link, and said fourth link coupled to said third link for rotation about said fourth axis; and a planet gear coupled to said second link for translation therewith and for rotation relative thereto, said planet gear in meshed engagement with said first gear for planetary movement relative thereto, said planet gear coupled to rotatably drive said third gear, whereby rotation of said second link about said first axis causes angular displacement of said second gear, said planet gear, and said third gear relative to said first axis, whereby said angular displacement of said planet gear relative to said first axis causes planetary rotation of said planet gear about said first gear thereby driving rotation of said third gear about said third axis, whereby rotation of said third gear causes angular displacement of said second end of said third link about said third axis whereupon said fourth gear planetarily rotates about said second gear causing said fourth link to rotate about said fourth axis. 5. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein said tool defines a tool axis and movement of said tool within said second degree of freedom includes rotation of said tool about said tool axis. 6. A surgical instrument comprising: an actuator; a tool; and a positioning apparatus including a gear link structure operably coupling said tool to said actuator which operably moves said tool in a first direction defining a first degree of freedom and in a second direction defining a second degree of freedom; wherein said gear link structure includes a first gear linkage assembly operably coupling said tool to said actuator for movement in said first degree of freedom and a second gear linkage assembly operably coupling said tool to said actuator for movement in said second degree of freedom; and wherein said second gear linkage assembly includes a gear pack with a first gear and a second gear, said actuator rotatably driving said first gear, said first gear rotatably driving said second gear, said second gear is coupled to said tool to move said tool in said second degree of freedom, and at least one of said gear linkage assemblies include a bevel gear. 7. The surgical instrument of claim 1 wherein said tool includes a first jaw pivotably movable relative to an adjacent second jaw. 8. The surgical instrument of claim 7 wherein said actuator includes a drive shaft, said second gear linkage assembly further including a first coupler gear coupling said first gear to said drive shaft to rotate said first gear upon rotation of said drive shaft and a second coupler gear coupling said second gear to said tool to rotate said tool upon rotation of said second gear. 9. The surgical instrument of claim 8 wherein said first coupler gear includes a first bevel gear and a second bevel gear, said first bevel gear coupled for rotation with said drive shaft, said second bevel gear in intermeshed engagement with said first bevel gear and coupled for rotation with said first gear. 10. An apparatus for positioning a tool relative to a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: a base; a tip; a coupling attaching said tool to the tip; a first gear linkage coupling said tip to said base in order to move said tip in a first direction relative to said base; and a second gear linkage operably moving one of said tip and tool in a second direction relative to said base, at least one of said gear linkages having a first gear and a second gear, said second gear coupling said second gear linkage to said tool, at least one of said gears being a bevel gear. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said base defines a longitudinal axis and movement of said tip in said first direction includes angular displacement of said tip relative to said longitudinal axis. 12. The surgical instrument of claim 10 wherein said first gear linkage includes: a first link having a first gear centered about a first axis; a second link having a second gear centered about a second axis, said second link coupled to said first link for rotation about said first axis; a third link having a first end and a second end, a third gear at said first end and centered about a third axis, said third link coupled to said second link such that said third axis aligns with said second axis; a fourth link having a first end and a second end, a fourth gear at said first end of said fourth link and centered about a fourth axis, said fourth gear intermeshed with said second gear, said tool coupled to said second end of said fourth link, and said fourth link coupled to said third link for rotation about said fourth axis; and a planet gear coupled to said second link for translation therewith and for rotation relative thereto, said planet gear in meshed engagement with said first gear for planetary movement relative thereto, said planet gear coupled to rotatably drive said third gear, whereby rotation of said second link about said first axis causes angular displacement of said second gear, said planet gear, and said third gear relative to said first axis, whereby said angular displacement of said planet gear relative to said first axis causes planetary rotation of said planet gear about said first gear thereby driving rotation of said third gear about said third axis, whereby rotation of said third gear causes angular displacement of said second end of said third link about said third axis whereupon said fourth gear planetarily rotates about said second gear causing said fourth link to rotate about said fourth axis. 13. The surgical instrument of claim 10 wherein said second gear linkage includes said first gear and said second gear, an actuator rotatably driving said first gear, said first gear rotatably driving said second gear, and said second gear coupled to said one of said tool and tip. 14. The surgical instrument of claim 13 wherein said actuator includes a drive shaft, said second gear linkage assembly further including a first coupler gear coupling said first gear to said drive shaft to rotate said first gear upon rotation of said drive shaft and a second coupler gear coupling said second gear to said tool to rotate said tool upon rotation of said second gear. 15. The surgical instrument of claim 14 wherein said first coupler gear includes a first bevel gear and a second bevel gear, said first bevel gear coupled for rotation with said drive shaft, said second bevel gear in intermeshed engagement with said first bevel gear and coupled for rotation with said first gear. 16. A surgical instrument comprising: an actuator; a base; a tool coupled to said base; a gear assembly including a first gear linkage and a second gear linkage, said first gear linkage coupling said tool to said actuator for moving said tool in a first direction relative to said base, said first gear linkage including a top gear pack in meshed engagement with a middle gear pack, said second gear linkage coupling said tool to said actuator for moving said tool in a second direction relative to said base, said second gear linkage including a bottom gear pack coupled to said actuator. 17. The surgical instrument of claim 16 wherein said gear assembly has a thickness of less than approximately 5.5 millimeters. 18. The surgical instrument of claim 17 wherein said top gear pack has a thickness of about 2.75 millimeters, said middle gear pack has a thickness of about 1.88 millimeters, and said bottom gear pack has a thickness of about 0.88 millimeters. 19. The surgical instrument of claim 16 wherein said tool includes a first jaw pivotably movable relative to an adjacent second jaw. 20. The surgical instrument of claim 19 wherein said jaws define forceps. 21. The surgical instrument of claim 19 wherein said jaws are axially rotatable about a longitudinal axis. 