The invention provides devices for preparing a reaction substrate for use as an assay device, and methods of using these devices. The devices prepare reaction substrates comprising arrays of biosites bound to reaction substrates. The devices have a plurality of bundled capillary tubes that convey capture probes from a storage area for eventual deposition onto a biosite on a reaction substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for making a reaction substrate for use as an assay device, wherein the device is capable of parallel printing an array of biosites on the reaction substrate, wherein each biosite comprises a plurality of a single type of capture probe bound to the reaction substrate, comprising: a plurality of bundled capillary tubes in flow communication with a plurality of capture probe supply chambers, wherein a proximal end of each capillary tube is in flow communication with a distinct capture probe supply chamber and a distal end is positioned in a supply area; and a means to deliver at least a capture probe sample from the supply area to a biosite on the reaction substrate. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the transport means delivers at least two capture probe samples from at least two bundled capillary tubes to the reaction substrate per delivery cycle. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the transport means delivers a capture probe sample from each of the bundled capillary tubes to the reaction substrate in one delivery cycle. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the transport means simultaneously delivers all capture probe samples to the reaction substrate. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the transport means simultaneously delivers from about 2 to about 10,000 capture probe samples to unique biosites at each delivery cycle. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the transport means operates at a rate of approximately one delivery cycle per second. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the transport means comprises depositors or multiple pins. 8. A device for making a reaction substrate for use as an assay device, wherein the reaction substrate comprises an array of biosites bound to the reaction substrate, comprising a plurality of bundled capillary tubes, each capillary tube having a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the proximal end of each capillary tube is positioned within a reagent supply chamber such that the reagent can flow from the reagent supply chamber into the capillary tube, and a printing fixture for delivering a sample of the reagent to a biosite on the reaction substrate. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein a printing fixture places the distal end of the capillary tubes in contact with the reaction substrate. 10. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capillary tubes simultaneously deliver small volumes of 3 .mu.l or less of the reagent at precise locations on the reaction substrate, wherein the location is controlled by spatial arrangement of the bundled capillaries. 11. The device of claim 8, further comprising an array of depositors or multiple pins. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the depositor or pin contacts a distal end of a capillary tube. 13. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capillaries have an hollow inner diameter of about 10 .mu.m to about 200 .mu.m. 14. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capillaries have an outer diameter of about 80 .mu.m to about 500 .mu.m. 15. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capillaries are spaced together about 200 .mu.m center to center. 16. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capture probe comprises a liquid solution. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein about 1 .mu.L to about 3 .mu.L of liquid solution is deposited per biosite. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein about 50 pL to about 100 pL of liquid solution is deposited per biosite. 19. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the device comprises from about 2 to about 10,000 capillary tubes. 20. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capture probe comprises a polynucleotide. 21. The device of claim 20, wherein the polynucleotide comprises a cDNA or an oligonucleotide. 22. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capture probe comprises a protein. 23. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capture probe comprises a hapten or an organic capture molecule. 24. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, further comprising an array template that positions the distal ends of the capillary tubes. 25. The device of claim 24, wherein the array template is a metal grid, a metal mesh, a rigidly held fabric mesh, a bundle of sleeve tubes or a solid block comprising holes or channels. 26. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, further comprising a robot arm attached to the bundled capillary tubes, an array template that positions the distal ends of the capillary tubes or the printing fixture. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein the robot arm provides X, Y and Z axis movement. 28. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capillary tubes are rigid. 29. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capillary tubes are flexible. 30. The device of claim 29, wherein a capillary tube comprises a stainless steel, a plastic, a rubber, a glass, a Teflon.TM. (polytetraflueroethylene), a flexible metal, or a fused silica coated with polyimide. 31. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein a capture probe supply chamber or a reagent supply chamber are sealed containers. 32. The device of claim 31, wherein the sealed containers comprise an inert gas. 33. The device of claim 32, wherein the inert gas is nitrogen or argon. 34. The device of claim 31, wherein the sealed containers can be pressurized. 35. The device of claim 34, wherein all of the sealed containers are pressurized simultaneously. 36. The device of claim 34, wherein the pressure in the sealed containers is modulated to control the flow of liquid reagents through the capillary tubes. 37. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the capture probe or reagent supply chambers are positioned higher than distal ends of the capillary tubes or the reaction substrates. 38. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, further comprising an electrophoretic force to facilitate flow of liquid reagent through the capillary tubes. 39. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, further comprising an electro-osmotic force to facilitate flow of liquid reagent through the capillary tubes. 40. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein the plurality of bundled capillary tubes comprises about 2 to about 10,000 capillary tubes. 41. The device of claim 1 or claim 8, wherein each capture probe or reagent supply chamber supplies only one capillary tube. 