A method and vehicle to deploy and retrieve seismic apparatus to and from the ocean bottom and to acquire data from the seismic apparatus. Submersible robotic vessels deploy and retrieve the seismic apparatus to the ocean bottom to depths of up to 5,000 meters. The vessel can separate from the seismic apparatus and return to resume seismic operations. A robotic arm manipulates the seismic apparatus and attaches them to the ocean bottom utilizing fasteners to actively couple the seismic apparatus to the ocean bottom.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) comprising: an assembly comprising a cable section and a sensor, the assembly separably stored in the AUV; a storage reel in the AUV for deploying the assembly from the AUV to an ocean floor and for retrieving the assembly from the ocean floor; a controller/processor for performing a diagnostic on the sensor before deployment of the assembly; and a robot arm for replacing inoperable sensors before manipulating the assembly for at least one of deployment and retrieval. 2. The AUV of claim 1, further comprising: a fastener separate from the sensor for anchoring the sensors to an ocean bottom, wherein the robot arm manipulates the fastener to perform at least one of: anchor a sensor to the ocean bottom and remove the fastener from the sensor. 3. The AUV of claim 1, wherein the assembly is substantially neutrally buoyant. 4. The AUV of claim 1 wherein the fastener is substantially neutrally buoyant. 5. The AUV of claim 1 wherein the AUV is neutrally buoyant. 6. The AUV of claim 1, wherein the controller/processor sends diagnostic status to a master vessel for analysis wherein diagnostic status comprises vehicle, sensor or data quality status. 7. The AUV of claim 1, further comprising an anchor for selectively affixing the AUV to the ocean bottom. 8. A method for deploying an assembly of cable and seonsors on an ocean bottom using an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) comprising the steps of: deploying a first assembly comprising a cable section and sensor separable stored in the AUV; retrieving the assembly from the ocean floor; performing a diagnostic to determine if the sensor is inoperable before deploying the sensor; and operating a robot arm for placing the sensor before deployment if the sensor is inoperable. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: selectively anchoring the sensor to an ocean bottom, wherein the robot arm manipulates the fastener to anchor the deployed sensor to the ocean bottom during deployment and removes the fastener during retrieval of the assembly. 10. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of: separating the AUV from the deployed first assembly. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of: returning the AUV to the deployed first assembly; and recording four-dimensional seismic data. 12. The method of claim 8 further comprising: performing a diagnostics on at least one of: sensors, vehicle and acquired data. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: sending diagnostic status to a master vessel for analysis via at least one of: an acoustic data link, optical fiber or electrical fiber. 14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: selectively affixing the AUV to the ocean bottom. 15. The AUV of claim 1 further comprising: a separable recording system for recording seismic data. 16. The AUV of claim 1, further comprising: a quality control report sent to a master vessel. 17. The method of claim 8, further comprising: a time-tagged message for synchronizing events between the AUV and a master vessel. 18. The method of claim 8 further comprising: retrieving a second assembly while recording seismic data from the first assembly. 