A passenger in an automated vehicle may relinquish control of the vehicle to a control computer when the control computer has determined that it may maneuver the vehicle safely to a destination. The passenger may relinquish or regain control of the vehicle by applying different degrees of pressure, for example, on a steering wheel of the vehicle. The control computer may convey status information to a passenger in a variety of ways including by illuminating elements of the vehicle. The color and location of the illumination may indicate the status of the control computer, for example, whether the control computer has been armed, is ready to take control of the vehicle, or is currently controlling the vehicle.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A vehicle comprising: a plurality of control apparatuses including a braking apparatus, an acceleration apparatus, and a steering apparatus; a geographic position component for determining the current geographic location of the vehicle; a force input apparatus for identifying the approximate location and degree of a force; memory for storing a detailed map information including roadway, traffic signal, and intersection information; and a processor operable to: receive location information from the geographic position component; receive input from the force input apparatus; determine, from location information received from the geographic position component and the stored map information, the current geographic location of the vehicle; determine, based on the current geographic location of the vehicle, whether the processor can control the plurality of control apparatuses safely; and determine, based on input received from the force input apparatus, whether the processor has permission to control the plurality of control apparatuses. 2. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the processor is operable to control the plurality of control apparatuses when the current geographic location of the vehicle corresponds to a roadway of the detailed roadway map. 3. The vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a light emitting apparatus and wherein the processor is further operable to illuminate the light emitting apparatus if the processor has determined that the processor has permission to control the control apparatuses. 4. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the force input apparatus is associated with a threshold value, and the processor is further operable to determine that the processor has permission if a force input on the force input apparatus is less than the threshold value. 5. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable to control the control apparatuses if the processor has determined that the processor has permission to control the control apparatuses. 6. The vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a light emitting apparatus and wherein the processor is further programmed to illuminate the light emitting apparatus while the processor is controlling the control apparatuses. 7. The vehicle of claim 5, wherein the processor is further operable to: determine, based on the current geographic location of the vehicle, whether the processor can no longer control the control apparatuses safely; and discontinue the controlling of the control apparatuses if the processor can no longer control the control apparatuses safely. 8. The vehicle of claim 7, further comprising a light emitting apparatus and wherein the processor is further operable to illuminate the light emitting apparatus if the processor discontinues the controlling of the control apparatuses because the processor can no longer control the control apparatuses safely. 9. The vehicle of claim 5, wherein the force input apparatus is associated with a threshold value and the processor is further operable to discontinue control of the control apparatuses if a force input on the force input apparatus is greater than the threshold value. 10. The vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a light emitting apparatus and wherein the processor is further operable to: illuminate the light emitting apparatus in a first color if the processor can control the plurality of control apparatuses safely and the processor is not controlling the control apparatuses; control the control apparatuses and illuminate the light emitting apparatus in a second color if the processor has determined that the processor has permission to control the control apparatuses; and illuminate the light emitting apparatus in a third color if the processor discontinues the controlling of the control apparatuses because the processor can no longer control the control apparatuses safely. 11. A method for controlling a plurality of control apparatuses of a vehicle including a braking apparatus, an acceleration apparatus, and a steering apparatus, the method comprising: receiving location information from a geographic position component for determining a current geographic location of the vehicle; receiving input from a force input apparatus identifying an approximate location and degree of a force; determining, from the location information received from the geographic position component and detailed map information, the current geographic location of the vehicle, the detailed map information including roadway, traffic signal and intersection information; determining, based on the current geographic location of the vehicle, whether a processor is operable to control the plurality of control apparatuses safely; determining, based on input received from the force input apparatus, whether the processor has permission to control the plurality of control apparatuses; and controlling the control apparatuses if the processor has permission to control the control apparatuses. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein: the force input apparatus is associated with a force threshold value; and determining that the processor has permission is based on whether a force input on the force input apparatus is less than the threshold value. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising illuminating a light emitting apparatus if the processor is not operable to control the control apparatuses safely. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising illuminating a light emitting apparatus while the processor is controlling the control apparatuses. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein if the processor is not operable to control the control apparatuses safely, then discontinuing the controlling of the control apparatuses by the processor. 16. A computer comprising: memory for storing map information; and a processor operable to: receive location information from a geographic position component which determines a current geographic location of the vehicle; receive input from a force input apparatus which identifies an approximate location and degree of a force; determine, from the location information received from the geographic position component and the stored map information, the current geographic location of the vehicle; determine, based on the current geographic location of the vehicle, whether the processor is operable to control a plurality of control apparatuses safely; and determine, based on input received from the force input apparatus, whether the processor has permission to control the plurality of control apparatuses. 17. The computer of claim 16, wherein the plurality of control apparatuses control an automobile. 18. The computer of claim 17, wherein the plurality of control apparatuses control a boat. 19. The computer of claim 18, wherein the plurality of control apparatuses control an airplane. 20. The computer of claim 16, wherein the processor is further operable to: illuminate light emitting apparatus in a first color if the processor is operable to control the plurality of control apparatuses safely and the processor is not currently controlling the control apparatuses; control the control apparatuses if the processor has determined that the processor has permission to control the control apparatuses and illuminate the light emitting apparatus in a second color; and illuminate the light emitting apparatus in a third color if the processor discontinues the controlling of the control apparatuses because the processor can no longer control the control apparatuses safely. 