A sensor for force is formed from an elastomeric cylinder having a region with apertures. The apertures have passageways formed between them, and an optical fiber is introduced into these passageways, where the optical fiber has a grating for measurement of tension positioned in the passageways between apertures. Optionally, a temperature measurement sensor is placed in or around the elastomer for temperature correction, and if required, a copper film may be deposited in the elastomer for reduced sensitivity to spot temperature variations in the elastomer near the sensors.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing a sensor having: a first step of placing an optical fiber into a cylindrical inner shell form, said inner shell form having an array of posts directed substantially outward, said optical fiber routed in the gaps between said posts; a second step of placing the optical fiber and cylindrical shell form into an enclosing outer shell form which is in contact with at least one of said outward directed posts, where a substantially cylindrical void is formed between said inner shell form and said outer shell form; a third step of filling said void with an elastomeric material to thereby create a sensor middle part; a fourth step of forming a cap and an attachment; a fifth step of attaching said cap on one end of said sensor middle part and attaching said attachment on the opposite end of said sensor middle part. 2. The method of claim 1 where said fourth step cap and said attachment are formed from the same elastomeric material as said third step sensor middle part. 3. The method of claim 1 where said fourth step attachment includes fiber optic leads from said optical fiber. 4. The method of claim 1 where said fourth step attachment includes a temperature sensor. 5. The method of claim 4 where said temperature sensor is an optical fiber having a Bragg grating. 6. The method of claim 1 where said optical fiber has Bragg gratings, and said first step placing said optical fiber includes placing said optical fiber such that said Bragg gratings are located between said posts and in areas where stress of deflection can be measured. 7. The method of claim 1 where said optical fiber has a plurality of Bragg gratings disposed in distinct locations on said fiber, each said Bragg grating operative for a different wavelength, and said first step includes placing said optical fiber such that each said Bragg grating is located between said posts and in areas where stress of deflection can be measured in each axis for measurement of deflection. 8. The method of claim 1 where said posts have a cross section which is at least one of: hexagonal, square, or triangular. 9. A method for manufacturing a sensor using an outer mold, an inner mold, and an optical fiber having at least one grating formed therein, the method having the steps: placing said inner mold within said outer mold after placement of an optical fiber between posts which are either part of said inner mold or part of said outer mold; filling a void between said outer mold and said inner mold with an elastomer; where said at least one grating is positioned in a region between two adjacent said posts. 10. The method of claim 9 where said grating is a fiber Bragg grating. 11. The method of claim 9 where said optical fiber has at least three gratings which are positioned with substantially 120 degrees of separation about an axis of said inner mold. 12. The method of claim 9 where said optical fiber has at least four gratings which are positioned with substantially 90 degrees of separation about an axis of said inner mold. 13. The method of claim 9 where said outer mold and said inner mold also form a closed end cap. 14. The method of claim 9 where said void forms a substantially cylindrical region having an extent. 15. The method of claim 9 where said posts have one of the cross sections of hexagonal, triangular, or square. 16. The method of claim 9 where said placement of an optical fiber includes placing a wire mesh in said void. 17. A method for making a shape and deflection sensor, the method having the steps: making an outer form with a substantially cylindrical middle section; making an inner form for placement inside said outer form and forming a void there between; placing an optical fiber having Bragg gratings in the gaps between posts formed in either said outer form or said inner form which extend into said void; placing a liquid elastomeric material in the void formed between said outer form and said inner form; curing said elastomeric material until said elastomeric material has hardened; removing said cured elastomeric material from said outer form and said inner form. 18. The method of claim 17 where one of said bragg gratings is a temperature measurement grating which is placed in a non-deflecting region of said elastomeric material. 19. The method of claim 17 where said gratings are fiber Bragg gratings placed in a single optical fiber, each said Bragg grating responsive to a unique range of wavelengths. 20. The method of claim 17 where said posts have a cross section which is at least one of hexagonal, square, or triangular. 21. The method of claim 17 where said placing an optical fiber step includes a copper mesh in said void. 