A machining tool comprises a frame mounting an extendable yoke slidable with respect to the frame in a first direction through one or more mounting pillars. A tool motor is mounted on the yoke. A drive mechanism for the yoke is also mounted in the frame, with a drive motor to drive the yoke drive mechanism. A belt is between pulleys on the drive motor and mechanism to transmit drive between them. A rotatable sleeve is around the tool motor and on which sleeve the belt engages on opposite sides of the tool motor, whereby the tool motor can extend between the drive motor and mechanism, thereby resulting in a compact arrangement of the tool.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A machining tool comprising: a) a frame mounted on an extendable yoke, wherein the yoke slides with respect to the frame in a first direction along at least one mounting pillar; b) a tool motor mounted on the yoke; c) a yoke drive mechanism mounted in the frame; d) a drive motor mounted in the frame to drive the yoke drive mechanism, the drive motor comprising one or more pulleys; e) a drive element located between the one or more pulleys and yoke drive mechanism; and f) a rotatable sleeve adapted to fit around the tool motor, wherein the drive element engages the sleeve on opposite sides of the tool motor, the tool motor extending between the drive motor and yoke drive mechanism. 2. The machining tool of claim 1, wherein the tool motor comprises a substantially constant longitudinal cross section. 3. The machining tool of claim 1, wherein the tool motor comprises a cylindrical body. 4. The machining tool of claim 1, wherein the sleeve forms a close sliding fit around the cylindrical body. 5. The machining tool of claim 1, further comprising two mounting pillars, each mounting pillar located on either side of the tool motor. 6. The machining tool of claim 5, wherein the yoke is fixed to the mounting pillars, each mounting pillar sliding along one or more axially-spaced sleeves fixed in the frame. 7. The machining tool of claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a fore end plate and an aft end plate, the fore end plate comprising one or more bearing sleeves, the aft end plate comprising one or more bearing sleeves, the fore end plate and aft end plate being arranged such that there is one on each side of the tool motor. 8. The machining tool of claim 7, wherein the fore plate and aft plate are connected by limbs. 9. A machining tool comprising: a) a frame comprising a fore end plate and an aft end plate connected by limbs, the frame mounted on an extendable yoke, wherein the yoke slides with respect to the frame in a first direction along two mounting pillars; b) a tool motor mounted on the yoke with each mounting pillar located on either side of the tool motor, the tool motor comprising a cylindrical body having a substantially constant longitudinal cross section; c) a yoke drive mechanism mounted in the frame; d) a drive motor mounted in the frame to drive the yoke drive mechanism, the drive motor comprising one or more pulleys, wherein the yoke drive mechanism and drive motor are fixed between the fore end plate and aft end plate on either side of the tool motor, whereby the two mounting pillars form opposite side corners and the drive motor and yoke drive mechanism form the other side corners of a substantially cube-shaped arrangement of the mounting pillars, the drive motor, the yoke drive mechanism, the fore end plate, and the aft end plate; e) a drive element located between the one or more pulleys and yoke drive mechanism; and f) a rotatable sleeve forming a close sliding fit around the cylindrical body of the tool motor, wherein the drive element engages the sleeve on opposite sides of the tool motor, the tool motor extending between the drive motor and yoke drive mechanism. 10. The machining tool of claim 9, wherein the yoke drive mechanism comprises a lead screw rotationally journalled between the fore end plate and the aft end plate, a nut being threadedly engaged with the lead screw and connected to the yoke to advance and retract the yoke with respect to the frame as the lead screw is rotated by the drive motor. 11. The machining tool of claim 10, wherein the nut is connected to the yoke by a rod that extends through the fore end plate. 12. The machining tool of claim 10, wherein the lead screw is fixed in the yoke and the drive motor rotates the nut, wherein the nut is rotationally disposed and axially fixed in the frame and threaded on the lead screw. 13. The machining tool of claim 10, wherein the drive motor and the tool motor rotate about parallel axes which are parallel to the lead screw and the one or more mounting pillars. 14. The machining tool of claim 9, wherein the tool motor has an axis that is parallel to each mounting pillar. 15. The machining tool of claim 9, wherein the yoke further comprises a transfer box. 16. The machining tool of claim 9, in which the drive element is a belt. 17. The machining tool of claim 9, wherein the sleeve is rotationally disposed, and axially fixed in the frame. 18. The machining tool of claim 9, wherein the tool motor does not touch the sleeve. 19. The machining tool of claim 1 or 9, wherein the frame comprises connection means for connecting to a robot arm. 20. The machining tool of claim 1 or 9, further comprising a camera. 21. The machining tool of claim 20, wherein the camera is connected using an optic fibre. 22. The machining tool of claim 1 or 9, further comprising lubrication dispensing means. 23. The machining tool of claim 1 or 9, further comprising chip extraction means to collect chippings and swarf generated by the machining. 24. The machining tool of claim 1 or 9, wherein the machining tool comprises a drill, the drill comprising a drill bit. 25. The machining tool of claim 24, wherein the drill bit is rotated on an axis parallel to the axis of the tool motor. 26. The machining tool of claim 24, wherein the yoke further comprises a transfer box, wherein the transfer box changes the speed of rotation of the drill bit in relation to the tool motor speed. 27. The machining tool of claim 24, wherein the yoke further comprises a transfer box, wherein the transfer box displaces the axis of rotation of the drill bit in relation to the axis of the tool motor so that the drill bit is to one side of the tool motor, but also parallel to the axis of the tool motor. 28. The machining tool of claim 24, wherein the yoke further comprises a transfer box, wherein the transfer box displaces the axis of rotation of the drill bit in relation to the axis of the tool motor so that the drill bit is inclined with respect to the axis of the tool motor. 29. The machining tool of claim 28, wherein the transfer box displaces the axis of rotation of the drill bit in relation to the axis of the tool motor so that the drill bit is inclined perpendicular with respect to the axis of the tool motor. 