The present invention relates to an electrical terminal implementation device that fabricates individual terminals, positions the terminals at their point of use, and connects the terminals to the subject components. The present device may also include apparatus for attaching the terminals to a component, testing the connection between the terminal and the component, coating the terminals with flux, shaping the terminals, and burnishing the component. More specifically, the present invention includes a terminal feeder by which integrated terminals are fed into the device. The integrated terminals are directed from the feeder toward a punch by a selector assembly. Before an individual terminal is cut from the integrated terminals by the punch, a loader assembly grips the individual terminal. Once separated from the integrated terminals, the individual terminal is moved by the loader assembly to the positioner assembly. The positioner assembly moves the individual terminal to the position where it is to be connected to the subject component. The device also includes an accessory assembly which includes a tool for burnishing the subject component, a camera for visually inspecting the component, and a tester for testing the mechanical and electrical connection between the terminal and the component.
Claims I claim: 1. A device for operatively connecting electrical terminals to a component, said device including an end effector, said end effector comprising: a frame; feeding means operatively connected to the frame for moving a strip of the electric terminals on a path through the end effector; positioning means operatively connected to said frame for placing at least one of the electrical terminals on the component; attaching means operatively connected to said frame for operatively securing the at least one electrical terminal to the component: and means operatively connected to said end effector for orienting a position of said end effector with respect to a position of said component; said device also including a separating means for separating the electrical terminals from the strip. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said attaching means secures said electrical terminal to the component by soldering. 3. The device of claim 1 further comprising burnishing means operatively connected to said frame for cleaning the component before said at least one electrical terminal is operatively secured thereto. 4. The device of claim 1 further comprising testing means operatively connected to said frame for testing the mechanical connection between said at least one electrical terminal and the component. 5. The device of claim 1 further comprising testing means operatively connected to said frame for visually verifying a connection between said at least one electrical terminal and said component. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said electrical terminals are integrated terminals. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein said means for orientating includes rotating means for selectively rotating the end effector with respect to the component. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein said frame is operatively connected to a vertical actuator, having at least one selector assembly; said vertical actuator being adapted to move the end effector toward and away from the component. 