A system for temporarily storing and subsequently reintroducing parts into an industrial assembly line is disclosed having a first and second side-by-side conveyor, each having a first end. A robot manipulator is positioned adjacent both the assembly line and the first ends of the conveyors and the manipulator is configured to selectively engage and release the parts. The system includes a plurality of containers wherein each container is adapted to receive a plurality of parts within the container. A first alignment rail is positioned adjacent one corner of the first conveyor while a second alignment rail is positioned a corner of the second conveyor. An actuator is associated with each alignment rail so that, upon activation of the actuator to its extended position, the actuator engages a container at the first end of its associated conveyor and moves the container against the alignment rail thus positioning the container at a predetermined position relative to the conveyor. A controller selectively controls the actuation and direction of movement of both conveyors, the actuation of the robot manipulator as well as the activation of the actuators.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for temporarily storing and subsequently reintroducing parts into an industrial assembly line comprising: a first conveyor and a second conveyor, each conveyor having first end and a second end, a robot manipulator positioned adjacent the assembly line and adjacent said first ends of said conveyors, said robot manipulator being configured to selectively engage and release parts, a plurality of containers, each container adapted to receive a plurality of the parts in predetermined positions within the container, a first and second alignment rail, said first alignment rail positioned adjacent the first end of said first conveyor and said second alignment rail positioned adjacent the first end of said second conveyor, a first actuator movable between and extended position in which said actuator engages one container at said first end of said first conveyor and moves said one container against said first alignment rail, and a retracted position, a second actuator movable between and extended position in which said actuator engages one container at said first end of said second conveyor and moves said one container against said second alignment rail, and a retracted position, a controller which controls the activation and direction of movement of said conveyors, the activation of said actuators and said robot manipulator to selectively move parts between the assembly line and containers on said first conveyor and selectively move empty containers between said first conveyor and said second conveyor. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said controller further selectively controls said robot manipulator to move empty containers from the first end of one conveyor to the first end of the other conveyor. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said controller further selectively controls said robot manipulator to move empty containers from the first end of one conveyor and onto a filled container at the first end of the other conveyor. 4. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said alignment rails are positioned adjacent a corner at said first end of their respective conveyors, and wherein said actuators are positioned cross corner from their respective alignment rails. 5. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein each actuator moves along an axis aligned with its associated alignment rail. 6. The invention as defined in claim 4 wherein said actuators are pneumatic actuators. 7. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said second conveyor has a length at least twice the length of said containers so that, upon actuation of said second conveyor, at least one empty container is moved between said second end and said first end of said second conveyor. 8. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said first conveyor has a length at least twice the length of said containers so that, upon actuation of said first conveyor, at least one filled container is moved between said first end and said second end of said first conveyor. 9. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said conveyors are positioned side by side. 