The present invention provides luminescent lanthanide metal chelates comprising a metal ion of the lanthanide series and a complexing agent comprising at least one phthalamidyl moiety. Also provided are probes incorporating the phthalamidyl ligands of the invention and methods utilizing the ligands of the invention and probes comprising the ligands of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A luminescent lanthanide metal chelate comprising a metal ion of the lanthanide series and a complexing agent comprising at least one moiety derived from 2-hydroxy-1,3-benzenedicarboxylic acid. 2. The chelate according to claim 1, having a quantum yield of at least about 0.1. 3. The chelate according to claim 2, wherein said lanthanide metal ion is a member selected from europium, terbium and combinations thereof. 4. The chelate according to claim 1, further comprising at least one salicylamidyl moiety. 5. A luminescent lanthanide metal chelate according to claim 1 wherein said at least one moiety derived from 2-hydroxy-1,3-benzenedicarboxylic acid has the formula: ##STR23## in which R.sup.1, and R.sup.2 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl groups; R.sup.11, R.sup.12, and R.sup.13 are members independently selected from alkyl, substituted alkyl, H, --NR.sup.14 R.sup.15, --NO.sub.2, --OR.sup.16, --COOR.sup.17, wherein, R.sup.14, R.sup.15, R.sup.16 and R.sup.17 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl, wherein R.sup.12 can optionally form a, ring with R.sup.11, R.sup.13 or both, said ring being a member independently selected from the group of ring systems consisting of cyclic alkyl, substituted cyclic alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, heterocyclyl and saturated heterocyclyl ring systems; and Q.sup.1 is --R.sup.18 ; wherein R.sup.18 is selected from H, an enzmatically labile group, a hydrolytically labile group and a single negative charge. 