An apparatus and associated method that removes electrolyte solution from a substrate, the apparatus comprises a thrust plate and a substrate extension unit. The thrust plate at least partially defines a spin recess. The substrate extension unit can be displaced between a retracted position and an extended position relative to the spin recess. The substrate extension unit is disposed within the spin recess when positioned in the retracted position. The substrate extension unit at least partially extends from within the spin recess when positioned in the extended position. The substrate is processed by immersing at least a portion of the substrate in a wet solution. The substrate is removed from the wet solution. The substrate extension unit extends into its extended position, and the substrate is spun. Extending the substrate extension unit limits the formation of fluid traps within the substrate holder assembly or between the substrate and the substrate holder assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thrust plate for retaining a substrate comprising: a main thrust plate portion at least partially defining a spin recess; and a substrate extension unit displaceable between a retracted position and an extended position, wherein the substrate extension unit when in its retracted position is disposed substantially within the spin recess, and wherein the substrate extension unit, when in its extended position, at least partially extends from within the spin recess. 2. The thrust plate of claim 1, further comprising a substrate holder assembly, wherein when the substrate extension unit is in its extended position, the substrate extension unit can hold a substrate at a position remote from the main thrust plate portion. 3. The thrust plate of claim 1, wherein the substrate extension unit is constrained to rotate at the same angular velocity as the main thrust plate portion. 4. The thrust plate of claim 3, further comprising a key coupled to the substrate extension unit and coupled to the main thrust plate portion, the key is configured to permit substantial vertical displacement, while limiting relative rotation in a substantial horizontal plane, between the substrate extension unit and the main thrust plate portion. 5. The thrust plate of claim 3, wherein a head rotation motor also rotates said substrate extension unit. 6. The thrust plate of claim 1, further comprising a head rotation motor that can rotate the main thrust plate portion. 7. The thrust plate of claim 1, further comprising a head rotation motor that rotates the main thrust plate portion and the substrate extension unit. 8. The thrust of claim 7, further comprising a vacuum source that extends the substrate extension unit relative to the main thrust plate portion. 9. The thrust plate of claim 7, wherein the substrate extension unit comprises one from the list of lip seal and O-ring that is configured to form a seal with the substrate to support the substrate. 10. The thrust plate of claim 1, further comprising a contact element, wherein the main thrust plate portion can bias a substrate into electric contact with the contact element. 11. The thrust plate of claim 10, wherein the main thrust plate portion comprises an O-ring that contacts the backside of the substrate to bias the substrate into electric contact with the contact element. 12. The thrust plate of claim 10, wherein the main thrust plate portion comprises an O-ring, wherein the substrate has a first side disposed on the contact element and a second side is opposite the first side, and the O-ring can be displaced to bias the second side so the first side is biased against the contact element. 13. The thrust plate of claim 1, further comprising a bellow, wherein the substrate has a first side disposed on the contact element and a second side is opposite the first side, the bellow biases the second side so the first side is biased against the contact element. 14. A method for holding a substrate using a main thrust plate portion having a spin recess, the method comprising: positioning a substrate extension unit into an extended position wherein the substrate extension unit at least partially extends from within the spin recess, wherein the substrate is secured by the substrate extension unit in a position remote from the main thrust plate portion. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising rotating the substrate extension unit to cause spinning of the substrate. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising displacing the substrate extension unit into a retracted position wherein the substrate extension unit is contained within the spin recess. 17. An apparatus comprising: a seal that biases a substrate against an electric contact while permitting a substrate holder assembly to rotate the substrate while the substrate holder assembly is in a first rotational configuration during plating, and the seal secures the substrate to the substrate holder assembly to spin the wafer when the substrate holder assembly is in a second rotational configuration in which the substrate is remote from the electric contact. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a main thrust plate portion having a spin recess formed therein; and a substrate extension unit that can be located within the spin recess. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the substrate extension unit is substantially retracted into the spin recess when the substrate holder assembly is in its first rotational configuration. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the substrate extension unit is substantially extended from the spin recess when the substrate holder assembly is in its second rotational configuration. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the seal is an inflatable seal. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the seal comprises an O-ring. 23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the seal comprises a lip seal. 24. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the seal comprises a plurality of seals, wherein at least one of the seals is remote from the substrate when the substrate is remote from the electric contact. 25. A method for removal of electrolyte solution from a substrate and a substrate holder assembly comprising: providing a main thrust plate portion at least partially defining a spin recess; and providing a substrate extension unit that can be displaced between a retracted position and an extended position, wherein the substrate extension unit is disposed within the spin recess when positioned in the retracted position, the substrate extension unit at least partially extends from within the spin recess when positioned in the extended position; processing the substrate by immersing at least a portion of the substrate in a wet solution; removing the substrate from the wet solution; extending the substrate extension unit into its extended position, and securing the substrate to the substrate extension unit; and spinning the substrate. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the extending the substrate extension unit into its extended position limits the formation of fluid traps within the substrate holder assembly or between the substrate and the substrate holder assembly. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the substrate extension unit comprises one from the list of lip seal and O-ring that is configured to form a seal with the substrate to support the substrate. 28. The method of claim 25, further comprising a contact element, wherein the main thrust plate portion can bias a substrate into electric contact with the contact element. 