Methods for screening cDNAs that express a product interacting with a target molecule. Individual cDNAs are pooled and the cDNA pools are expressed to obtain expression products, for example by coupled in vitro transcription/translation. The interaction of the products with the target molecule is then assayed, for example by scintillation proximity assay (SPA), to identify pools of interest. By selectively re-pooling the cDNAs and repeating the expression and assay steps, individual cDNAs of interest can be rapidly identified. This method is readily automated in a computer-controlled device for high throughput screening. The invention also provides methods of transfecting a cell with a cDNA identified by the screening method to confer a desired property to a cell or identifying cDNAs from a pool of cDNAs by transfection into cells to confer a desired property.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of identifying a nucleic acid in a pool of interest, comprising the steps of (1) obtaining a plurality of nucleic acids, wherein the nucleic acids are individually identifiable; (2) pooling the nucleic acids in step (1) into at least two pools of at least one nucleic acid each; (3) expressing the nucleic acid pools in step (2) to obtain corresponding protein expression product pools; (4) assaying the expression product pools in step (3) for products having an interaction with a target molecule; (5) selecting a nucleic acid pool corresponding to an expression product pool identified in step (4); and (6) identifying at least one individual nucleic acid in the nucleic acid pool identified in step (5). 2. A method for functionally screening a plurality of nucleic acids, comprising the steps of (a) performing the method of claim 1 on a plurality of nucleic acids using a first pooling scheme; (b) performing the method of claim 1 on the nucleic acids at least once using a pooling scheme different than the pooling scheme used in step (a); and (c) using the nucleic acids identified in steps (6) of steps (a) and (b) to identify at least one individual nucleic acid; thereby screening the plurality of nucleic acids for a nucleic acid that expresses a product that interacts with the target molecule. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the method of claim 1 in step (b) is performed once. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the method of claim 1 in step (b) is performed more than once. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of nucleic acids obtained in step (1) of step (b) is the plurality of nucleic acids obtained in step (1) of step (a), thereby performing the steps in parallel. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of nucleic acids obtained in step (1) of step (b) is the plurality of nucleic acids obtained in step (6) of step (a), thereby performing the steps in serial. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the pooling schemes are mutually orthogonal. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is a cDNA. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein each nucleic acid is associated with an identifier. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein each nucleic acid is physically segregated into an arrayed library. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acids obtained in step (1) are substantially full-length nucleic acids. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acids obtained in step (1) are substantially normalized. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid pool in step (3) is expressed in vivo in cells. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid pool in step (3) is expressed using coupled in vitro transcription/translation (TNT). 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid pool in step (3) is expressed to obtain detectably labeled expression products. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the expression products are radiolabeled. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction is binding. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein assaying step (4) is performed using a scintillation proximity assay (SPA). 19. The method of claim 17, wherein assaying step (4) is performed using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET). 20. The method of claim 1, wherein steps (2) and (4) are automated. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein step (3) is automated. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein steps (5) and (6) are automated. 23. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of recording an identifier for each nucleic acid pooled in step (1). 24. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of recording an identifier for each nucleic acid identified in step (6). 25. A method for conferring a desired property to a cell, comprising the step of transfecting a cell with a nucleic acid identified by the method of claim 2. 