The present invention is a novel and rapid assay for intracellular niacin status in a biological sample that is both highly sensitive and accurate over a wide range of niacin status. The assay can be performed directly on a biological sample such as blood and is useful for determining the niacin status in a subject such as a human. In a preferred form, the assay is incorporated into a kit or an apparatus for the rapid and accurate determination of niacin status in a subject.
Claims We claim: 1. A method to measure intracellular niacin status in whole blood comprising: a) collecting a whole blood sample; b) extracting intracellular pyridine nucleotide from the whole blood sample; c) subjecting said pyridine nucleotide in the sample to a cycling process comprising one or more cycles of: reducing the pyridine nucleotide to a reduced pyridine nucleotide; transferring an electron from the reduced pyridine nucleotide to an electron acceptor dye molecule to produce a change in an absorbance of the electron acceptor dye molecule; d) measuring the change in absorbance of the electron acceptor dye molecule to determine the intracellular niacin status. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the intracellular pyridine nucleotide is NAD or NADP. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said extracting comprises: a) disrupting the whole blood cells; b) removing proteins therefrom. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said disrupting comprises treating the whole blood cells with a basic compound and neutralizing the basic compound. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said disrupting comprises: disrupting the whole blood cells by mechanical means; treating the whole blood cells with a basic compound; and neutralizing the basic compound. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said removing comprises: a) acid precipitation of proteins; and b) neutralization of the acid. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the reducing step comprises adding an enzyme and enzyme substrate pair to the whole blood cells to reduce the pyridine nucleotide. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the pyridine nucleotide is NAD, and the enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is a NAD specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said NAD specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is selected from the group consisting of: alcohol dehydrogenase and ethanol; malate dehydrogenase and malate; lactate dehydrogenase and lactate; NAD specific isoctirate dehydrogenase and isocitrate; glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate; and a combination thereof. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the pyridine nucleotide is NADP, and the enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is a NADP specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said NADP specific enzyme and enzyme substrate pair is selected from the group consisting of: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glucose-6-phosphate; 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconate; malic enzyme and malate; NADP specific isocitrate dehydrogenase and isocitrate; and a combination thereof. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the transferring step further comprises: a) transferring an electron from the reduced pyridine nucleotide to an electron transmitter compound; b) transfering an electron from the electron transmitter compound to the electron acceptor dye molecule. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said electron transmitter compound is selected from the group consisting of oxidized phenazine ethosul fate (PES(ox)); 5-methylphenazinium methylsulfate; 1-methoxy-5-methylphenazinium methylsulfate; diaphorase (dihydrolipoamide reductase, EC 1.6.4.3.); and a combination thereof. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said electron acceptor dye is selected from the group consisting of thiazolyl blue (MTT); 3,3'-(3,3'-dimethoxy-4,4'-biphenylene)-bis2-(p-nitrophenyl)-2H-tetazolium chloride) (NBT); 3-(p-indophenyl)-2-(p-nitrophenyl)-5-phenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride (INT); 3,3'-(4,4'-biphenylene)-bis(2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetazoliumchloride); 3,3.varies.-(3,3'-dimethoxy-4,4'-biphenylene)-bis(2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazol ium chloride); 3,3'-(3,3'-bis(2,5-bis(p-nitrophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium chloride); and a combination thereof. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said whole blood is anticoagulated whole blood. 16. A method for calculating a niacin status in a whole blood sample comprising: a) determining a NAD content and a NADP content of said biological sample using the method of claim 1; b) determining a niacin status from a ratio of said NAD content and NADP content. 