A mobile personal computer station having an upper table top 32 to which is attached a computer 14 being connected to a lower docking station 28 by multiple extendable legs 30. The purpose of the present invention 10 is to provide a computer control wheeled structure that can move about as the user 12 chooses. The upper tabletop 32 also has attached thereto a rotatable camera which can be mounted in a plurality of cable and accessory management apertures 40 which are spaced about the tabletop. The lower docking station 28 is provided with wheels 24, 26 and is electrically driven by drive wheels 26 which are controlled by a computer. The camera rotator mechanism is also computer controlled and comprises a transceiver integrated circuit 82, a motor 84, a worm gear 86, a drive transfer gear 88, a drive shaft 90 and a rotative coupling post 60 which attaches the camera rotating mechanism to the tabletop 32. A camera platform 92 and camera locking screw 94 are provided for attaching a camera thereto. The docking station 28 is-provided with storage compartments 44 and a hardware port 53 whereupon a computer and related hardware can be placed. The lower mobile unit 54 comprises an integrated circuit housing 68, a mobilizer CPU 120, a clutch-driven motor 62, a plurality of shock absorbers 56, a servomotor drive motor control mechanism 128, a drive shaft 118, a drive gear 64, a differential gear 66, drive wheels 26 and castor wheels 24 and a plurality of electrical wiring and contacts 72.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for a mobile computer controlled work station having a camera mounted thereon, comprising: a) an upper planar work surface, said work surface having a plurality of apertures therein, said apertures being spaced about; b) a camera rotative coupling disposed in said apertures of said upper work surface, said camera rotative coupling for receiving the camera; c) means for rotating said camera rotative coupling disposed thereon; d) a lower mobile unit, said unit having a plurality of drive wheels thereon whereby movement is provided; e) means for connecting said upper planar work surface to said lower mobile unit; f) means for controlling said plurality of drive wheels; and, g) a first computer for controlling said means for rotating said camera rotative coupling and said means for controlling said plurality of drive wheels. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said camera rotative coupling further comprises a housing, said housing having an elongated downwardly extending post disposed thereon, said post for insertion into said plurality of apertures on said upper planar work surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising an elongated upwardly extending camera shaft disposed on said housing, said shaft having means for adjusting the shaft length and means for attaching the camera thereto, said shaft having a drive shaft attached thereto. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said means for adjusting the shaft length further comprises a pair of telescoping sections. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said camera rotative coupling further comprises a camera platform and a camera locking screw. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said means for rotating said camera rotative coupling further comprises an electrical motor, a rotatable means for contacting said drive shaft, and an integrated circuit transceiver which provides means for positioning the camera, and an antenna means connected to said transceiver whereby signals are received and transmitted via a mobilizer central processing circuit disposed in said lower mobile unit. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said lower mobile unit further comprises a docking station having an upper housing disposed thereon, said upper housing providing an enclosure therefor. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said docking station further comprises a front and a rear caster wheel, and a pair of drive wheels having one drive wheel disposed on each of its sides. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said docking station further comprises a plurality of storage compartments integrally molded therein, a hardware port for receiving computer hardware integrally molded therein, a plurality of recesses for receiving said means for connecting said upper planar work surface to said docking station of said lower mobile unit, means for a PC interface, said means for controlling said plurality of drive wheels, and a source of power. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said means for connecting said upper planar surface to said lower mobile unit further comprises a plurality of selectively extendable legs disposed on the four corners thereof. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said legs further comprise a plurality of extension joints, said extension joints being telescopically coupled to each other, said extension joints further comprising table leg retaining members whereby said extension joints can be secured to each other. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said means for controlling said plurality of drive wheels further comprises a plurality of drive motors, each of said drive motors comprising a drive axle, a differential gear, a drive gear, an integrated circuit housing having a central processing unit therein, a transceiver for transmitting signals to said antenna means of said camera rotative coupling, and an antenna. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said means for controlling said plurality of drive wheels further comprises servomotor, whereby the direction and speed of said drive wheels are controlled. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said first computer further comprises a first means for connection to said means for a PC interface, said means for a PC interface further comprises a second means for connection to said servomotor, whereby said servomotor is controlled. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said transceiver controls said means for rotating said camera by transmitting a signal to said antenna means of said camera rotative coupling. 