Apparatus and methods for arc welding a stud to a workpiece without the use of a ferrule are disclosed. Apparatus according to the invention include a stud arc welding gun having a spacer at a distal end thereof, and a chuck adapted to receive a stud having a diameter of more than about 3/8 inch. A stud feeding device is coupled to the gun for automatically loading studs into the gun. The stud feeding device can include a bowl feeder and a stud feeding conduit via which studs are transferred from the bowl feeder to the stud gun. A gun positioning device, such as an arm of a robot, is coupled to the gun, and automatically positions the gun such that the spacer is against a receiving surface of the workpiece. A controller coupled to the stud gun initiates a stud arc welding process to arc weld the stud to the workpiece.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for arc welding a stud to a workpiece without the use of a ferrule, comprising: a stud arc welding gun having a spacer at a distal end thereof and a chuck adapted to receive a stud having a diameter of more than about 3/8 inch; a stud feeding device coupled to the gun that automatically loads studs into the gun; a gun positioning device coupled to the gun that automatically positions the gun such that the spacer is against a first receiving area of the workpiece; and a controller coupled to the stud gun that initiates a stud arc welding process to arc weld the stud to the workpiece. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the stud feeding device determines whether a stud is loaded into the gun and, if no stud is loaded into the gun, automatically loads a stud into the gun. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the stud feeding device determines a proper orientation of the stud and loads the stud into the chuck in the proper orientation. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the stud feeding device comprises a bowl feeder in which a plurality of studs is stored; and a stud feeding conduit that couples the stud gun with the bowl feeder, via which studs are transferred from the bowl feeder to the stud gun. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the gun is coupled to an arm of a robot that is adapted to position the gun such that the spacer is against the receiving surface. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the robot is adapted to automatically move the stud gun away from the first receiving area and to position it at a second receiving area on the same or a different workpiece. 7. A method for arc welding a stud to a workpiece without the use of a ferrule, comprising: providing a stud arc welding gun having a spacer at a distal end thereof and a chuck adapted to receive a stud having a diameter of more than about 3/8 inch; loading a stud into the gun; moving the gun proximate a receiving area on a surface of a workpiece onto which a stud is to be welded; and arc welding the stud to the surface. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein loading the stud into the gun comprises automatically loading the stud into the gun via a stud feeding device that is coupled to the gun. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein automatically loading the stud into the gun comprises the stud feeding device determining whether a stud is loaded into the gun, and if no stud is loaded into the gun, automatically loading the stud into the gun. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein automatically loading the stud into the gun comprises the stud feeding device determining a proper orientation of a stud and loading the stud into the chuck in the proper orientation. 11. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: providing a stud feeding device comprising a bowl feeder in which a plurality of studs is stored; coupling the gun with the bowl feeder via a stud feeding conduit; and transferring studs from the bowl feeder to the gun via the conduit. 12. The method according to claim 7, further comprising coupling the gun to an arm of a robot that is adapted to position the gun such that the spacer is against the surface of the workpiece. 13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising adapting the robot to move the gun away from a first receiving area and to position it at a second receiving area on the same or a different workpiece. 