A method of determining contact positions of a robot relative to a workpiece in a workspace of the robot. The method utilizes the contact positions to determine a location of the workpiece in the robot workspace. The method also monitors an integral operating parameter within the robot, such as motor torque, to determine the contact positions of the robot relative to the workpiece and to locate the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining a contact position of a robot assembly relative to an object external to the robot assembly wherein the robot assembly includes at least one arm having a contact surface, and a controller, said method comprising the steps of: moving the robot assembly from an initial position where the contact surface is spaced from the external object toward the contact position where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a point on the external object; determining operating values of the robot assembly as the robot assembly moves between the initial position and the contact position; establishing at least one operating parameter threshold; comparing the operating values to the operating parameter threshold; continuing the movement of the robot assembly provided the operating values are less than or equal to the operating parameter threshold; recording the contact position of the robot assembly relative to the external object when the operating values of the robot assembly exceed the operating parameter threshold; and said method characterized by the step of determining operating values of the robot assembly being further defined as monitoring an integral operating parameter within the robot assembly during the movement of the robot assembly between the initial position and the contact position to determine when the robot assembly contacts the external object. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of determining a geometrical relationship between the contact surface on the arm and the robot assembly. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of establishing at least one operating parameter threshold is further defined as establishing the operating parameter threshold to indicate the movement of the robot assembly independent of contact with the external object. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of recording the contact position of the robot assembly relative to the external object is further defined as recording the contact position when the operating values exceed the operating parameter threshold by a predetermined tolerance. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of moving the robot assembly is further defined as issuing a robot motion command to move the robot assembly. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of processing the recorded contact position of the robot assembly to obtain a positional value indicating a location of the external object relative to the robot assembly. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of selecting at least one axis on a portion of the robot assembly where the integral operating parameter within the robot assembly is monitored. 8. A method as set forth in claim 7 further including the step of maintaining a position of the selected axis relative to the portion of the robot assembly throughout the moving of the robot assembly. 9. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of establishing at least one operating parameter threshold is further defined as establishing the operating parameter threshold for the selected axis of the robot assembly where the integral operating parameter is monitored. 10. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of monitoring the integral operating parameter is further defined as monitoring motor torque of the robot assembly. 11. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the step of monitoring the integral operating parameter is further defined as monitoring the integral operating parameter selected from the group consisting of velocity of the robot assembly, acceleration of the robot assembly, position of the robot assembly, jerk of the robot assembly, motor torque of the robot assembly, and motor current of the robot assembly, and combinations thereof. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of establishing at least one operating parameter threshold is further defined as establishing the operating parameter threshold for the selected axis such that the operating parameter threshold is correlative to the selected integral operating parameter being monitored. 13. A method as set forth in claim 12 further including the step of repositioning the robot assembly into the initial position after the robot assembly contacts the external object. 14. A method as set forth in claim 13 further including the step of moving the robot assembly from the initial position toward a second contact position where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a second point on the external object after the robot assembly has been repositioned into the initial position. 15. A method as set forth in claim 13 further including the steps of moving the robot assembly from the initial position toward a plurality of contact positions where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a plurality of corresponding points on the external object, and recording the plurality of contact positions when the operating values of the robot assembly exceed the operating parameter threshold. 16. A method as set forth in claim 15 further including the step of storing the recorded contact positions of the robot assembly relative to the external object. 17. A method as set forth in claim 16 further including the step of processing the stored contact positions of the robot assembly to obtain a location of the external object relative to the robot assembly in multiple degrees of freedom. 18. A method as set forth in claim 16 further including the step of determining a correction factor defined as a difference between the obtained location of the external object and a previously obtained location of the external object. 19. A method as set forth in claim 16 further including the step of utilizing the plurality of contact positions to determine a working frame of the robot. 20. A method as set forth in claim 16 further including the step of determining a difference between the stored contact positions and a second plurality of stored contact positions representing current contact positions to correct any error in calibration of the robot assembly. 21. A method as set forth in claim 13 further including the step moving a workpiece held within the robot arm by manipulation of the robot assembly such that the contact surface of the robot arm is defined by the workpiece. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including the step of moving the robot assembly from the initial position toward a second contact position where the external object contacts a second point on the contact surface of the robot arm after the robot assembly has been repositioned into the initial position. 23. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including the steps of moving the robot assembly from the initial position toward a plurality of contact positions where the external object contacts a plurality of corresponding points on the contact surface of the robot arm, and recording the plurality of contact positions when the operating values of the robot assembly exceed the operating parameter threshold. 24. A method as set forth in claim 1 further including the step of mounting a calibration plaque within an operating space of the robot assembly wherein the calibration plaque includes an outer facing, and at least one calibration element wherein the calibration element defines a bounded void having an inner surface. 25. A method as set forth in claim 24 further including the step of extending the contacting surface of the robot arm at least partially into the bounded void of the calibration element prior to moving the robot assembly from the initial position. 26. A method as set forth in claim 25 wherein the step of moving the robot assembly is further defined as moving the robot assembly toward the contact position where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a segment on the inner surface of the bounded void. 27. A method as set forth in claim 26 further including the step of repositioning the robot assembly into the initial position after the robot assembly contacts the segment on the inner surface of the bounded void. 28. A method as set forth in claim 27 wherein the step of moving the robot assembly is further defined as moving the robot assembly toward a plurality of contact positions where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a corresponding plurality of segments on the inner surface of the bounded void. 29. A method as set forth in claim 28 wherein the step of moving the robot assembly toward the plurality of contact positions is further defined as moving the robot assembly toward at least one contact position on the outer facing of the calibration plaque where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts the point on the outer facing of the calibration plaque. 30. A method as set forth in claim 28 further including the step of recording the plurality of contact positions when the operating values of the robot assembly exceed the operating parameter threshold. 31. A method as set forth in claim 30 further including the step of storing the recorded contact positions. 32. A method as set forth in claim 31 further including the step of correcting error in calibration of the robot assembly by processing the stored contact positions relative to a current plurality of contact positions and determining a calibration correction factor. 33. A method as set forth in claim 28 further including the step of utilizing the contact positions to determine a tool frame of the robot assembly. 34. A method as set forth in claim 33 further including the step of determining a tool frame correction factor defined as a difference between the tool frame and a previously determined tool frame. 35. A method as set forth in claim 28 further including the step of utilizing the contact positions to determine a tool center point of the robot assembly. 36. A method of determining a calibration parameter of a robot assembly having a calibration plaque mounted within an operation space of the robot assembly wherein the calibration plaque includes an outer facing, and at least one calibration element defining a bounded void having an inner surface, and wherein the robot assembly includes at least one arm having a contact surface, a controller, and a sensing device that detects contact between the contact surface of the robot arm and the calibration plaque, said method comprising the steps of: moving the robot assembly from an initial position toward a contact position; detecting when the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a segment on the inner surface of the bounded void with the sensing device; continuing the movement of the robot assembly until the contact surface contacts the segment; recording the contact position of the robot assembly relative to the inner surface of the bounded void when the sensing device detects contact between the contact surface and the segment; utilizing the recorded contact position to determine the calibration parameter; and said method characterized by the step of moving the robot assembly being further defined as moving the robot assembly from the initial position where the contact surface is spaced from the inner surface of the bounded void toward the contact position where the contact surface of the robot arm is at least partially extended into the calibration element and contacts the segment on the inner surface of the bounded void. 37. A method as set forth in claim 36 wherein the step of moving the robot assembly is further defined as moving the robot assembly toward a plurality of contact positions where the contact surface of the robot arm is at least partially extended into the calibration element and contacts a corresponding plurality of segments on the inner surface of the bounded void such that each contact position is different. 38. A method as set forth in claim 37 wherein the step of moving the robot assembly toward the plurality of contact positions is further defined as moving the robot assembly toward at least one contact position on the outer facing of the calibration plaque where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts a point on the outer facing of the calibration plaque. 39. A method as set forth in claim 37 wherein the step of utilizing the recorded contact position is further defined as utilizing the recorded plurality of contact positions to determine the calibration parameter. 40. A method as set forth in claim 39 wherein the step of utilizing the recorded plurality of contact positions is further defined as utilizing the recorded contact positions to determine a tool center point of the robot assembly. 41. A method as set forth in claim 39 wherein the step of utilizing the plurality of contact positions is further defined as utilizing the recorded contact positions to determine a tool frame of the robot assembly. 42. A method as set forth in claim 39 further including the step of storing the recorded contact positions. 43. A method as set forth in claim 42 further including the step of correcting the calibration parameter by processing stored contact positions relative to a current plurality of contact positions. 44. A method as set forth in claim 39 wherein the step of utilizing the contact positions is further defined as utilizing the contact positions to determine the calibration parameter selected from the group consisting of a joint angle of the robot assembly and a tool frame of the robot assembly such that the correction to the calibration parameter is a correction to one of the joint angles and the tool frame. 45. A method of determining a reference frame in an operating space of a robot assembly wherein an object external to the robot assembly is disposed in the operating space of the robot assembly and includes an object contact surface, and wherein the robot assembly includes at least one arm having a contact surface, a controller, and a sensing device that detects contact between the contact surface of the robot arm and the object contact surface, said method comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of contact points relative to the reference frame, and determining a first vector approximately normal to one of the contact surface and the object contact surface at one of the contact points; determining a geometrical relationship between the robot assembly and at least one of the contact surface and the object contact surface; moving the robot assembly from an initial position toward a contact position; continuing moving the robot assembly until the sensing device detects contact between the contact surface and the object contact surface; recording the contact position of the robot assembly when the contact is detected by the sensing device; utilizing the recorded contact position and the determined geometrical relationship to determine the reference frame; and said method characterized by the step of moving the robot assembly being further defined as moving the robot assembly from the initial position where a second vector, between the contact surface and the contact point, is approximately normal to at least one of the contact surface and the object contact surface along the first vector toward the contact position where the contact surface of the robot arm contacts the object contact surface. 46. A method as set forth in claim 45 wherein the step of determining a plurality of contact points relative to the reference frame is further defined as determining the plurality of contact points to be on the object contact surface of the external object. 47. A method as set forth in claim 45 wherein the step of determining a plurality of contact points relative to the reference frame is further defined as determining the plurality of contact points to be on the contact surface of the robot arm. 