A reactor for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece is set forth. The reactor comprises a reactor bowl including an electroplating solution disposed therein and an anode disposed in the reactor bowl in contact with the electroplating solution. A contact assembly is spaced from the anode within the reactor bowl. The contact assembly includes a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece to provide electroplating power to the surface of the workpiece. The contacts execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith The contact assembly also including a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts. The barrier includes a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to assist in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. In one embodiment, the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures while in another embodiment the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. A flow path may be provided in the contact assembly for providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. The purging gas may be used to assist in the formation of the barrier of the contact assembly. A combined electroplating/electroless plating tool and method are also set forth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reactor for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece comprising: a reactor bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution disposed therein; an anode disposed in the reactor bowl to contact the electroplating solution; a contact assembly spaced from the anode within the reactor bowl the contact assembly including a contact support member having an inner wall defining an opening larger than the workpiece, and a plurality of cantilevered contacts having a first end fixed relative to the contact support member and a second end extending generally radially inwardly from the inner wall and angled upwardly from the first end disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece, the plurality of contacts executing a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith. 2. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures. 3. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. 4. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising a flow path disposed in the contact assembly for providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 5. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contact assembly comprises: an outer body member formed from a dielectric material; the contact support member carrying the outer body member, the contact support member being composed of a conductive material. 6. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the contact support member and the plurality of contacts are comprised of platinized titanium. 7. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures, each of the discrete flexures being disposed in a corresponding flexure channel defined between the contact support member and outer body member. 8. A reactor as claimed in claim 7 and further comprising a wedge member disposed to engage a corresponding groove in the contact support member along with the discrete flexures to thereby secure the discrete flexures with the contact support member. 9. A reactor as claimed in claim 8 wherein at least a portion of the wedge member assists in stiffening the flexing of the flexure contacts as a workpiece is brought into engagement with the contact assembly. 10. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact having a common portion disposed in a notch at an interior face of the contact support member. 11. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 and further comprising a workpiece guide disposed radially interior of the contact support member. 12. A reactor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the outer body comprises an outer section connected to the contact support member and a lip projecting radially inwardly from the outer section engage the surface of the workpiece. 13. A reactor as claimed in claim 5, further comprising an elastomeric seal member supported by the outer body member, the elastomeric seal member engaging the surface of the workpiece. 14. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contact assembly is releasably attached to the reactor using at least one latching mechanism. 15. A reactor as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising a processing head including the contact assembly, the processing head including a stator portion and a rotor portion, the rotor portion comprising the contact assembly. 16. A reactor as claimed in claim 15 wherein the contact assembly is detachably connected to the rotor portion by at least one latching mechanism. 17. A reactor as claimed in claim 15 and further comprising a backing member and a drive mechanism, the backing member and contact assembly being moved relative to one another by the drive mechanism between a workpiece loading state and a workpiece processing state, the workpiece being urged against the plurality of contacts of the contact assembly by the backing member in the workpiece processing state. 18. A reactor as claimed in claim 17 wherein the drive mechanism is substantially surrounded by a bellows member. 19. A reactor assembly for plating a metal onto a surface of a workplace, comprising: a bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution; an anode in the bowl; and a processing head including a contact assembly and a backing plate, the contact assembly comprising a support ring having an opening sized to receive the workpiece and a plurality of cantilevered contacts having a first end fixed relative to the support ring and a second end projecting generally radially inwardly and upwardly from the first end, and the backing plate being moveable with respect to the contact assembly to drive the workpiece against the second end of the contacts in a processing position. 20. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the cantilevered contacts comprise individual flexure members having a first end attached to the support ring and a second end projecting upwardly from the first end and inwardly from the support ring. 21. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the cantilevered contacts comprise fingers integral with a conductive arcuate section, and wherein the conductive arcuate section is attached to the support ring. 22. The reactor of claim 21 wherein the cantilevered contacts and the arcuate section define a conductive Belleville ring. 23. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator and a rotor, and the contact assembly and the backing plate are carried by the rotor. 24. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator, a rotor, and a bellows seal coupled to the rotor, and wherein the contact assembly is carried by the rotor and the backing plate is coupled to the bellows seal. 25. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the cantilevered contacts project inwardly at an angle relative to a radius of the support ring. 26. The reactor of claim 19, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts, to engage the workpiece. 27. The reactor of claim 19, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts, and wherein the lip has an elastomeric seal configured to engage the workpiece. 28. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the processing head further comprising a latching mechanism coupled to the contact assembly, the latching mechanism having an actuator that moves between a lock position and a release position, wherein the latching mechanism engages the contact assembly in the lock position to hold the contact assembly to the processing head, and wherein the latching mechanism disengages the contact assembly in the release position to remove the contact assembly from the processing head. 29. A reactor assembly for plating a metal onto a surface of a workplace, comprising: a bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution, the bowl including a wier having a rim over which the electroplating solution can flow; an anode in the bowl below the rim of the wier; and a processing head including a contact assembly and a backing plate, the contact assembly comprising a support ring and a plurality of cantilevered contacts projecting generally radially inwardly from the support ring and upwardly away from the anode. 30. The reactor of claim 29 wherein the cantilevered contacts comprise individual flexure members having a first end attached to the support ring and a second end projecting upwardly from the first end and inwardly from the support ring. 31. The reactor of claim 29 wherein the cantilevered contacts comprise fingers integral with a conductive arcuate section, and wherein the conductive arcuate section is attached to the support ring. 32. The reactor of claim 31 wherein the cantilevered contacts and the arcuate section define a conductive Belleville ring. 33. The reactor of claim 29 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator and a rotor, and the contact assembly and the backing plate are carried by the rotor. 34. The reactor of claim 29 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator, a rotor, and a bellows seal coupled to the rotor, and wherein the contact assembly is carried by the rotor and the backing plate is coupled to the bellows seal. 35. The reactor of claim 29 wherein the cantilevered contacts project inwardly at an angle relative to a radius of the support ring. 36. The reactor of claim 29, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts to engage the workpiece. 37. The reactor of claim 29, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts, and wherein the lip has an elastomeric seal configured to engage the workpiece. 38. The reactor of claim 29 wherein the processing head further comprising a latching mechanism coupled to the contact assembly, the latching mechanism having an actuator that moves between a lock position and a release position, wherein the latching mechanism engages the contact assembly in the lock position to hold the contact assembly to the processing head, and wherein the latching mechanism disengages the contact assembly in the release position to remove the contact assembly from the processing head. 39. A reactor assembly for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece, comprising: a bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution; an anode in the bowl; a processing head including a detachable contact assembly, a backing plate, and a latch mechanism, the contact assembly comprising a support ring and a plurality of cantilevered contacts projecting generally radially inwardly from the support ring and upwardly, and the latch mechanism having an actuator moveable from a lock position in which the contact assembly is attached to the reactor assembly and a release position in which the contact assembly is detachable from the reactor assembly. 40. The reactor of claim 39 wherein the cantilevered contacts comprise individual flexure members having a first end attached to the support ring and a second end projecting upwardly from the first end and inwardly from the support ring. 41. The reactor of claim 39 wherein the cantilevered contacts comprise fingers integral with a conductive arcuate section, and wherein the conductive arcuate section is attached to the support ring. 42. The reactor of claim 41 wherein the cantilevered contacts and the arcuate section define a conductive Belleville ring. 43. The reactor of claim 39, wherein the cantilevered contacts project inwardly at an angle relative to a radius of the support ring. 44. The reactor of claim 39, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts to engage the workpiece. 45. The reactor of claim 39, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts, and wherein the lip has an elastomeric seal configured to engage the workpiece. 46. A reactor assembly for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece, comprising: a bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution; an anode in the bowl; and a processing head including a contact assembly and a backing plate, the contact assembly comprising a support member and a contact ring having an annular section and a plurality of cantilevered contacts having a first end at the annular section and a second end projecting generally radially inwardly and upwardly from the first end, the contact ring being carried by the support member, and the backing plate being moveable with respect to the contact assembly to drive the workpiece against the second end of the contacts in a processing position. 47. The reactor of claim 46 wherein the cantilevered contacts and the annular section define a conductive Belleville ring. 48. The reactor of claim 46 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator and a rotor, and the contact assembly and the backing plate are carried by the rotor. 49. The reactor of claim 46 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator, a rotor, and a bellows seal coupled to the rotor, and wherein the contact assembly is carried by the rotor and the backing plate is coupled to the bellows seal. 50. The reactor of claim 46 wherein the cantilevered contacts project inwardly at an angle relative to a radius of the support member. 51. The reactor of claim 46, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support member, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts to engage the workpiece. 52. The reactor of claim 46, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support member, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts, and wherein the lip has an elastomeric seal configured to engage the workpiece. 53. A reactor assembly for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece, comprising: a bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution; an anode in the bowl; and a processing head including a contact assembly and a backing plate, the contact assembly comprising a support ring and a plurality of swept contacts having a first end proximate to the support ring and a second end projecting generally inwardly from the support ring at an angle relative to a radius of the support ring. 54. The reactor of claim 53 wherein the swept contacts comprise individual cantilevered flexure members having a first end attached to the support ring and a second end projecting upwardly from the first end and inwardly from the support ring. 55. The reactor of claim 53 wherein the swept contacts comprise cantilevered fingers integral with a conductive arcuate section, and wherein the conductive arcuate section is attached to the support ring. 56. The reactor of claim 55 wherein the cantilevered fingers and the arcuate section define a conductive Belleville ring. 57. The reactor of claim 53 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator and a rotor, and the contact assembly and the backing plate are carried by the rotor. 58. The reactor of claim 53 wherein the processing head further comprises a stator, a rotor, and a bellows seal coupled to the rotor, and wherein the contact assembly is carried by the rotor and the backing plate is coupled to the bellows seal. 59. The reactor of claim 53, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts to engage the workpiece. 60. The reactor of claim 53, further comprising a barrier coupled to the support ring, the barrier having a transverse section terminating at a lip positioned radially inwardly of the second end of the contacts, and wherein the lip has an elastomeric seal configured to engage the workpiece. 61. The reactor of claim 53 wherein the processing head further comprising a latching mechanism coupled to the contact assembly, the latching mechanism having an actuator that moves between a lock position and a release position, wherein the latching mechanism engages the contact assembly in the lock position to hold the contact assembly to the processing head, and wherein the latching mechanism disengages the contact assembly in the release position to remove the contact assembly from the processing head. 