A system for automatically cooling and further processing chewing gum base materials is disclosed. The hot molten chewing gum base material is deposited in lined or coated pans, the pans are picked up by an industrial robot and placed into a pair of spiral cooling towers where the molten material is cooled and solidified. The same or a second industrial robot picks up the pans of cooled gum base material and transports them to a final staging and processing area. The pans of cooled gum base material are placed on a conveyor system or on pallets for further handling and processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing and cooling system for chewing gum base materials comprising: a continuous extruding machine; a pair of spiral cooling towers positioned adjacent said extruding machine for accepting and cooling containers of liquid gum base material extruded from said extruding machine; a feeding mechanism positioned adjacent said continuous extruding machine for placing protective lining materials in said containers in which the liquid gum base material is poured prior to being introduced into said cooling towers; conveying means for conveying said containers filled with liquid gum base material into said spiral cooling towers; said pair of cooling towers comprising a first cooling tower with a first conveying mechanism which transports full containers of gum base material in an upward spiral path while said containers and material therein are being subjected to cooling air, a second cooling tower with a second conveying mechanism which transports said full containers of gum base material in a downward spiral path while said containers and material therein are being subjected to cooling air and means for transporting said full containers of gum base material from said first conveying mechanism to said second conveying mechanism; and a robotic member for transporting said fill containers of gum base material from said second cooling tower to a subsequent staging station. 2. The system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robotic member has suction cups thereon for removing said gum base material from said containers by vacuum suction. 3. A plastic sheet feeding system for a continuous gum base processing system comprising: a continuous extruding machine for continuously producing a liquid gum base material, said material at an elevated temperature sufficient to prevent it from solidifying; a metered feeding system for transporting said liquid gum base material from said continuous extruding machine to a unit staging area, said unit staging area having a plurality of container members for further transport of said gum bas material; a plastic sheet feeding mechanism positioned adjacent said metered feeding system comprises of a robot for automatically positioning plastic sheet liners in each of said container members; said metered feeding system adapted to deposit liquid gum base material in each of said container members with said sheet liners therein; and a cooling system positioned adjacent said plastic sheet feeding mechanism for subjecting said containers of liquid gum base material to cooling air flow in order to cool and solidify said gum base material. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said plastic sheet feeding mechanism comprises a first mechanism for unrolling sheets of plastic material and a second mechanism for positioning said unrolled sheets of plastic material in said container members. 5. The system of claim 3 further comprising a removal mechanism positioned adjacent said cooling system for removing solidified gum base material from said container members. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said removal mechanism comprises a robotic member. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said robotic member includes a vacuum suction mechanism which is utilized to assist in the removal of said solidified gum base material. 8. The system of claim 3 wherein said cooling system comprises at least one spiral cooling tower. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said cooling system comprises a pair of spiral cooling towers. 10. A robotic-base system for processing chewing gum base material comprises: a continuous extrusion mechanism for continuously producing liquid gum base material; a cooling mechanism positioned adjacent extrusion mechanism for cooling said liquid gum base material and producing solid units of said material; a first robotic material handling system for transporting said liquid gum base material from said extrusion mechanism to said cooling mechanism; and a second robotic material handling system for transporting said units of solid gum base material from said cooling mechanism to first staging area. 11. The system of claim 10 further comprising a plurality of container members positioned adjacent said continuous extrusion mechanism, said gum material being poured into said container member before said liquid gum material is introduced into said cooling mechanism. 12. The system of claim 11 further comprising a plastic sheet feeding mechanism for placing sheets of plastic material into said container members before said liquid gum base material is deposited therein. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein said second robotic material handling system includes a vacuum suction mechanism for transporting said solid gum base materials from said cooling mechanism to said first staging area. 14. The system of claim 10 further comprising a first conveyer for assisting in transporting said liquid gum base material to said cooling mechanism. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising a second conveyer for transporting said liquid gum base materials into and through said cooling mechanism. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a third conveyer for transporting said solid gum base materials from said first staging area to a second staging area. 17. An automated robotic system for continuously producing, cooling and processing chewing gum base materials comprising: a continuous extruder for producing semi-liquid chewing gum base materials; a first staging station for continuously receiving said semi-liquid chewing gum base materials and continuously filling a plurality of lined pan members therewith; a cooling mechanism for continuously cooling the pans of semi-liquid chewing gum base materials and solidifying said materials in the pans into blocks of material; at least one robotic mechanism with at least one programmed arm member for continuously placing the pans filled with semi-liquid chewing gum base materials into said cooling mechanism and for continuously removing the pans with solidified chewing gum base materials therein from said cooling mechanism; and a second staging station for continuously receiving and processing the blocks of solidified chewing gum materials removed from said pan members. 18. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 wherein two robotic mechanisms are provided, a first robotic mechanism for placing the filled pans into said cooling mechanism and a second robotic mechanism for continuously removing the pans from said cooling mechanism. 19. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said at least one robotic mechanism further places empty pans at said first staging station. 20. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said pan members are lined with individual plastic liner members. 21. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said cooling mechanism comprises a pair of spiral cooling towers. 22. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said at least one robotic mechanism is a computerized programmable robotic mechanism and has at least one rotating arm member. 23. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 22 wherein said at least one arm member has at least one gripping mechanism in order to grip and move said pan member. 24. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 22 wherein said at least one arm member has a plurality of suction cups thereon for attachment to the solidified blocks of chewing gum base material. 25. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said blocks of solidified chewing gum base materials are positioned on pallet members. 26. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said pallet members are positioned on a conveying mechanism. 27. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 further comprising a first conveyer mechanism for conveying said filled pan members into said cooling mechanism, a second conveyor mechanism for conveying said pan members through said cooling mechanism, and a third conveyor mechanism for conveying said pan members with solidified blocks of chewing gum base material from said cooling mechanism. 28. The automated robotic system as set forth in claim 17 further comprising conveying means for conveying said pan members into, through, and out of said cooling mechanism. 