An inverted pressure vessel system for conducting automated industrial processes requiring elevated pressure and temperatures has a vertically movable pedestal for opening and closing the underside loading port, with pedestal drive system and locking mechanism located below the pedestal top and isolated from the chamber opening. The chamber is connectible to a pressure control and process fluid supply system, and has heat exchangers connected to an external source for temperature control. Process fluids are distributed across a central process cavity through divergent inflow and convergent outflow process fluid channels.
Claims We claim: 1. An inverted pressure vessel system with shielded closure mechanisms for conducting automated industrial processes under elevated pressure and temperature, comprising a pressure chamber with an underside loading port, a vertically movable pedestal arranged directly below said pressure chamber for opening and closing said loading port, the top of said pedestal functioning as the floor of said pressure chamber when said pedestal is raised to a closed position and as a loading platform when said pedestal is lowered to an open position, means for moving said pedestal between said open position and said closed position, means for locking said pedestal in a sealing relationship with said pressure vessel so as to define a process volume within which to conduct processes when said pedestal is in said closed position, means for shielding said means for moving and said means for locking from exposure to said top of said pedestal and said pressure chamber, means for controlling pressure within said pressure chamber when closed and sealed, and means for controlling temperature within said pressure chamber when closed and sealed. 2. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 1, said means for controlling pressure comprising an inlet manifold and an outlet manifold communicating with said process volume, said manifolds being connectable to a process fluid control source for delivering process fluids under controlled pressure to said process volume and removing byproducts therefrom. 3. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 2, said means for controlling temperature comprising a heat exchanging platen in the roof of said process volume being connectible by fluid lines to an external fluid temperature control system, a heat exchanging platen incorporated onto said pedestal being likewise connectible by fluid lines to said external fluid temperature control system, and a thermocouple sensor configured for sensing temperature in said process volume and connectible for communicating with said external fluid temperature control system. 4. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 1, said process volume comprising a central cavity, divergent inflow channels connecting said inlet manifold to said cavity, and convergent outflow channels connecting said cavity to said outlet manifold. 5. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 1, said means for moving comprising a motor and vertical drive mechanism located below and connected to said pedestal and means for providing lateral support to said pedestal, said means for locking comprising a motor and lateral drive mechanism for inserting at least one wedge structure beneath said pedestal when in said closed position. 6. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 5, said wedge structure comprising a pair of opposing and interlocked locking blocks slidably mounted on a lower support plate, said blocks being jointly laterally movable between a spaced apart unlocked position clear of the range of motion of said pedestal and an adjacent locked position beneath said pedestal, the top surface of said blocks being slidingly engageable at a wedge angle with the bottom of said pedestal. 7. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 5, said wedge structure comprising a rotate-to-actuate locking lug ring with uniformly spaced internally extending wedge lugs mounted on a lower support plate, said locking lug ring being partially rotable so as to slidingly engage said internally extending lugs at a said wedge angle beneath a uniformly spaced set of locking lugs extending outward from the base of said pedestal. 8. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 5, further comprising a horizontal shelf structure vertically positioned below said top of said pedestal and above said means for moving and said means for locking, said shelf having a center hole through which said pedestal operates, said means for providing lateral support being attached thereto. 9. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 8, said means for shielding comprising a vertically collapsible bellows, the upper end thereof being attached by an upper bellows flange around said top of said pedestal and the lower end thereof being attached by a lower bellows flange to said shelf so as to encircle said pedestal and said means for providing lateral support. 10. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 8, said means for shielding comprising a vertically operable piston diaphragm configured for sealing said top of said pedestal to said shelf. 11. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 8, said means for providing lateral support comprising two flats on opposing sides of said pedestal with vertical guide channels configured therein, said guide channels engaged with closely conforming stationary guide bars mounted on guide bar holders attached to said shelf. 12. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 1, said means for shielding comprising an enclosure about said underside port, said enclosure communicating with a transport mechanism for inserting and removing articles for processing, said enclosure having an underside center hole through which said pedestal operates, and a pedestal skirt diaphragm the center section of which is sealed about said top of said pedestal, the flange of which is sealed to the edge of said center hole. 13. An inverted pressure vessel system with shielded closure mechanisms for conducting automated industrial processes under elevated pressure and temperature, comprising a pressure chamber with an underside loading port, a vertically movable pedestal arranged directly below said pressure chamber for opening and closing said loading port, the top of said pedestal functioning as the floor of said pressure chamber when said pedestal is raised to a closed position and as a loading platform when said pedestal is lowered to an open position, a horizontal shelf structure vertically positioned below said top of said pedestal and having a center hole through which said pedestal operates, a motor and vertical drive mechanism located below said shelf and connected to said pedestal, means for providing lateral support to said pedestal, said means comprising two flats on opposing sides of said pedestal with vertical guide channels configured therein, said guide channels engaged with closely conforming stationary guide bars mounted on guide bar holders attached to said shelf, a locking mechanism below said shelf consisting of a motor and lateral drive mechanism for inserting at least one wedge structure beneath said pedestal when in said closed position so as to define a sealed process volume within which to conduct said processes, a vertically collapsible bellows, the upper end thereof being attached by an upper bellows flange around said top of said pedestal and the lower end thereof being attached by a lower bellows flange to said shelf so as to encircle said pedestal and said means for providing lateral support, an inlet manifold and an outlet manifold communicating with said process volume, said manifolds being connectable to a process fluid control source for delivering process fluids under controlled pressure to said process volume and removing byproducts therefrom, a heat exchanging platen in the roof of said process volume being connectible by fluid lines to an external fluid temperature control system, a heat exchanging incorporated onto said pedestal being likewise connectible by fluid lines to said external fluid temperature control system, a thermocouple sensor configured for sensing temperature in said process volume and connectible for communicating with said external fluid temperature control system, said process volume further comprising a central cavity, divergent inflow channels connecting said inlet manifold to said cavity, and convergent outflow channels connecting said cavity to said outlet manifold. 14. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 13, said wedge structure comprising a pair of opposing and interlocked locking blocks slidably mounted on a lower support plate, said blocks being jointly laterally movable between a spaced apart unlocked position clear of the range of motion of said pedestal and an adjacent locked position beneath said pedestal, the top surface of said blocks being slidingly engageable at a wedge angle with the bottom of said pedestal. 15. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 13, said processes including supercritical fluid processing of semiconductor wafers. 16. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 15, said super critical fluid comprising carbon dioxide. 17. The inverted pressure vessel system of claim 16, incorporated into an automated production system for processing semiconductor wafers. 