A method whereby a sample handler moves and positions racks, containing sample tubes, in an analytical instrument. The sample handler has an in-feed and out-feed that advance sample tube racks using a walking beam mechanism. The racks are seated within the in-feed and are transported onto a cross-feed. The racks and tubes contained thereon are moved past detection devices that identify the samples and measure various properties thereof. Thereafter, the cross-feed moves the racks to a position behind the out-feed where the walking beam mechanism moves the tube racks out of the analytical instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. method for feeding containers sitting in a rack into an instrument, said instrument comprising a robotic arm and a sample handler comprising an infeed having a first walking beam mechanism, an outfeed having a second walking beam mechanism, and a cross-feed adjacent said infeed and outfeed, inputting said rack into said infeed, transferring said rack from said infeed to a first position on said cross-feed using said first walking beam mechanism, transporting said rack on said cross-feed from said first position on said infeed to a second position on said cross-feed, and removing at least a first of said containers from said rack using said robotic arm. 2. The method of claim 1 detecting the presence of said rack in said infeed and activating said first walking beam mechanism in response to said detection. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising detecting whether said rack is skewed on said cross-feed after said transfer of said rack to said cross-feed using a range sensor. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing machine-readable codes on said rack and said containers and a reader for reading said code adjacent said cross-feed between said first and second positions, and reading said codes on said rack and said containers using said reader to identify said rack and said containers in said rack. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising holding said rack vertically and downward in said second position on said cross-feed with while said robotic arm removes said at least first container. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing an ultrasonic sensor mounted above said cross-feed between said first and second positions, and reading a plurality of data points with said sensor as said rack is transported under said sensor. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising providing a gross height sensor adjacent said infeed and detecting whether a top of said container is below a maximum height readable by said ultrasonic sensor. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising providing a cap on at least one of said containers, using said plurality of data points to determine which of said containers have caps, and transporting the capped containers with said robotic arm from said rack at said second position to a decapper for the removal of the caps. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein each of said containers in said rack has liquid at an level unspecified to said instrument before said rack is transported under said sensor, and said method further comprises using said plurality of data points to determine said liquid level for uncapped test tubes in said rack. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein each of said containers in said rack is of a type unspecified to said instrument before said rack is transported under said sensor, and said method further comprises using said plurality of data points to determine container types. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said second position on said cross-feed is adjacent said outfeed, said rack has a left side and a right side and a tab on each of said right and left sides of said rack, said outfeed has a first set of right and left side walls from which said rack may be suspended by said tabs and said second walking beam mechanism comprises a movable tray having a second set of right and left side walls from which said rack may be suspended by said tabs and a first pair of detents on opposite side walls of said first and second set of side walls, said method further comprising activating said second walking beam mechanism, after said at least first container is removed by said robotic arm, to move a portion of said tray above said cross-feed to capture said tabs within said first pair of detents. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said cross-feed has a track and a platform having at least one pusher finger that moves under said track to push said rack from said first position to said second position and said step of transporting said rack on said cross-feed from said first position to said second position comprises transporting said platform from said first position to said second position, thereby camming said pusher finger into an aperture on said rack and pushing said rack across said track to said second position. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising turning off said second walking beam mechanism after said rack on said cross-feed is captured within said side walls of said tray while said portion of said tray is above said cross-feed, and disengaging said pusher finger from said aperture in said rack by transporting said platform out from under said rack. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising activating said second walking beam again after said platform has moved out from under said rack and transferring said rack to said first set of side walls on outfeed. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said tray has a second pair of detents on opposite side walls of said first and second sets of side walls separated from said first pair of detents by a ridge and said method further comprises transferring said rack from said first pair of detents to said second pair of detents using said second walking beam mechanism. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said tray has a second pair of detents on opposite side walls of said first and second sets of side walls separated from said first pair of detents by a ridge and said method further comprises transferring said rack from said first pair of detents to said second pair of detents using said second walking beam mechanism, feeding a second rack into said outfeed to sit within said first pair of detents, and returning said containers that are removed from said first rack on said cross-feed to an empty position in said first rack or, if said first rack has no empty position, to an empty position in said second rack. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said first and second racks have receptacles for said containers and said instrument has software, and said method further comprises programming into said software a plurality of registration positions where said receptacles on said first and second racks will be positioned when one of said racks is at said second position on said cross-feed and when said racks are sitting within respective detents in said first set of side walls on said outfeed. 18. The method of claim 14 further comprising returning containers that are removed from said first rack on said cross-feed to any position in said second rack on said outfeed. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said containers are returned to said rack using said robotic arm. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein said containers are returned to said rack using a second robotic arm. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein said tray has a plurality of pairs of detents on opposite side walls of said first and second sets of side walls, and said method further comprises transferring a plurality of racks from said cross-feed to said outfeed during a plurality of cycles of said second walking beam mechanism, and, during each cycle of said second walking beam mechanism, transferring said racks within said outfeed from a first detent to an adjacent detent. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said outfeed comprises a rear area, in which said detents are located and that is not accessible to an operator of said instrument, and a front area, which is operator-accessible, and said method further comprises outputting one of said racks in a frontmost pair of detents in said rear area to said front area after all of said pairs of detents are filled with said racks. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said outfeed comprises a rear area, in which said detents are located and that is not accessible to an operator of said instrument, and a front area, which is operator-accessible, and said method further comprises cycling said walking beam mechanism to output a first of said racks closest to said front area from said rear area upon demand and cycling said walking beam mechanism in a reverse direction to transfer said racks remaining in said rear area rearward in said rear area. 