A control system has blocks or other components that facilitate validation of their own replacements, e.g., downloaded via e-commerce transactions. The system includes first and second process control components. The first component is coupled to a third process control component, with which it transfers information, e.g., as part of an active or ongoing control process. The second component can be, for example, an update or other potential replacement for the first component. The first and/or second components can effect substitution of the second component for the first. More particularly, they can effect coupling of the second component for information transfer with the third component and decoupling of the first component from such transfer with the third component. Preferably, such coupling and decoupling occur while the process control system remains active.
Claims In view of the foregoing, what is claimed is: 1. A method of electronic commerce comprising transferring, from a first digital data processor to a second digital data processor, as part of an e-commerce transaction any of a first control system component and a definition thereof, the first control system component being adapted for use in a control system of the type having a second control system component coupled to and transferring information with a third component, any of the first and second control system components being further adapted for decoupling the second and third components from information transfer and coupling the first control component to the third component for transfer of information therewith, wherein the transferring step includes transferring any of the first control system component and the definition thereof from the first digital data processor to the second digital data processor in response to a request by the second control component. 2. A method according to claim 1, including the step of keeping the control system operational while the first and third control system components are decoupled from information transfer and wherein the second and third control system components are coupled for information transfer. 3. A method according to claim 1, comprising generating information with the second control system component for possible transfer to the third control system component, which information is comparable with information generated by the first control system component for transfer to such third control system component. 4. A method according to claim 3, comprising comparing information generated by the first control system component for transfer to such third control system component with information generated by the second control system component for possible transfer to the control system third component. 5. A method according to claim 4, comprising applying to an operator console an output indicative of the results of the comparison. 6. A method according to claim 4, comprising responding to any of an operator command and a result of the comparing step by selectively decoupling the first and third control system components from information transfer and, in lieu thereof, coupling the second and third control system components for information transfer. 7. method according to claim 1, comprising providing one or more stores identifying any of sources and sinks of information transferred between the components. 8. A method according to claim 7, comprising updating one or more of the stores in order to decouple the first and third control system components from information transfer and in order to couple the second and third control system components for information transfer. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least the second control component is resident on the second digital data processor. 