A repairable high-payload six-axis load sensor includes a table, a base, and at least three shear-pin load transducers removably mounted between the table and the base. Removable mounting permits easy replacement of damaged shear pins. Preferably, the shear-pin load transducers are responsive to shear forces imparted along the two axes perpendicular to an axis of minimum sensitivity characteristic of the transducer. Responsive to an applied shear force, each shear-pin load transducer can produce an electrical signal proportional to the reaction force. The load sensor can further include a structure for receiving the proportional electrical signals and computing the applied load corresponding to the proportional electrical signals. The computed load can be expressed in terms of a three-dimensional XYZ Cartesian coordinate system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A repairable high-payload six-axis load sensor comprising: a table; a base; at least three two-axis force sensing units, said two-axis force sensing units each comprising: a shear-pin load transducer removably mounted between said table and said base for measuring two orthogonal reaction forces between said table and said base and a structure for minimizing unmeasured axial loading on said shear-pin load transducer by transmitting reaction forces in an unmeasured third orthogonal direction to at least one of the other of said sensing units, said reaction forces produced by an applied load, each said shear-pin load transducer producing an electrical signal proportional to said reaction forces; and, computing means for receiving said proportional electrical signals and computing three orthogonal forces and three orthogonal torques produced by said applied load corresponding to said proportional electrical signals. 2. The sensor according to claim 1, wherein said structure for transmitting reaction forces comprises at least one flexure, said flexure having at least one feature oriented perpendicular to an axis of minimum sensitivity characteristic of said removably mounted shear-pin load transducers. 3. The sensor according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said shear-pin load transducers includes a bearing embedded in said table, said bearing defining a passage, each said bearing enclosing a length of said shear-pin load transducer inserted through said passage of said bearing when removably mounted in said table, whereby said bearing can reduce moment loads applied to said shear-pin load transducer. 4. The sensor according to claim 1, wherein each said shear-pin load transducer is responsive to shear forces imparted along two axes perpendicular to an axis of minimum sensitivity characteristic of said transducer. 5. The sensor according to claim 1, wherein said at least three shear-pin load transducers are symmetrically mounted about said table. 6. The sensor according to claim 1, wherein said table is a low-profile disc having each of said at least three shear-pin load transducers radially positioned apart from each other about a circumference of said disc. 7. The sensor according to claim 1, wherein said computing means further comprises means for expressing said computed load in terms of a three-dimensional XYZ Cartesian coordinate system. 8. A method for computing an applied load in a repairable high-payload six-axis load sensor comprising the steps of: providing at least three removably mounted shear-pin load transducers, said shear-pin load transducers each having at least one flexure with features oriented perpendicular to an axis of minimum sensitivity characteristic of respective ones of said removably mounted shear-pin load transducers; measuring a non-linear output voltage from a strain gauge attached to each of said shear-pin load transducers contained in said high-payload six-axis load sensor; transforming each said non-linear output voltage to a non-linear gauge voltage; for each of said shear-pin load transducers, linearizing said measured non-linear voltages, forming a vertical force component and a horizontal force component for each of said three shear-pin load transducers; for each vertical force component and horizontal force component formed from a measured non-linear voltage, removing pin mounting bias from said vertical force component and said horizontal force component, said removing step forming a modified vertical force component and a modified horizontal force component; and, computing an applied load from said modified vertical force components and said modified pin horizontal force components. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein said transforming step comprises the step of converting each said non-linear output voltage to a corresponding non-linear gauge voltage by solving an equation .DELTA.E=s*g*c*.DELTA.V where .DELTA.V is a non-linear output voltage produced by a strain gauge attached to a shear-pin load transducer in response to a load applied thereto, s is a scale factor corresponding to said shear-pin transducer, g is a gain factor corresponding to an electronic amplifier used to measure said non-linear output voltage, c is a constant factor, and .DELTA.E is said non-linear gauge voltage. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein said linearizing step comprises the steps of: successively repositioning each said shear-pin load transducer in a different fixed orientation; for each said different fixed orientation, successively loading each said shear-pin load transducer with different fixed loads; deriving a calibration constant for each said different fixed load imparted upon said shear- pin load transducer when in each said different fixed orientation; and, computing a vertical force component and a horizontal force component by solving an equation where a.sub.j and b.sub.j are said calibration constants, .DELTA.E.sub.x and .DELTA.E.sub.z are scalar x-direction and z-direction non-linear gauge voltage components of a vector .DELTA.E representing said transformed non-linear gauge, F".sub.v is said vertical force component and F".sub.h is said horizontal force component. 11. The method according to claim 8, wherein said removing step comprises the steps of: measuring a tilt angle .theta..sub.t for a shear-pin load transducer; measuring a rotational angle .theta..sub.r for said shear-pin load transducer; calculating first intermediate forces F'.sub.h and F'.sub.v for said shear-pin load transducer using the equation ##EQU5## where F".sub.v is said vertical force component formed in said linearizing step, and F".sub.h is said horizontal force component formed in said linearizing step; and, further calculating second intermediate forces F.sub.h and F.sub.v for said shear-pin load transducer using the equation ##EQU6## 12. The method according to claim 8, wherein said computing step comprises the steps of: measuring offset angles .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, and .theta..sub.3 corresponding to each of said shear-pin load transducers; measuring x, y, and z coordinates of said high-payload six-axis load sensor with respect to a first shear-pin load transducer; measuring x, y, and z coordinates of a second shear-pin load transducer with respect to said first shear-pin load transducer; measuring x, y, and z coordinates of a third shear-pin load transducer with respect to said first shear-pin load transducer; and, calculating an applied load vector comprising three orthogonal forces, F.sub.sx, F.sub.sy, and F.sub.sz, and three orthogonal moments M.sub.sx, M.sub.sy, and M.sub.sz using the equation ##EQU7## where p.sub.sx, p.sub.sy and p.sub.sz are x, y, and z coordinates, respectively, of said high-payload six-axis load sensor with respect to said first shear-pin load transducer, p.sub.1x, p.sub.1y and p.sub.1z are x, y, and z coordinates, respectively, of said second shear-pin load transducer with respect to said first shear-pin load transducer, P.sub.2x, P.sub.2y and P.sub.2z are x, y, and z coordinates, respectively, of said third shear-pin load transducer with respect to said first shear-pin load transducer, F.sub.h0 and F.sub.v0 are a modified horizontal force component and a modified vertical force component, respectively, of said first shear-pin load transducer formed in said removing step, F.sub.h1 and F.sub.v1 are a modified horizontal force component and a modified vertical force component of said second shear-pin load transducer formed in said removing step, and F.sub.h2 and F.sub.v2 are a modified horizontal force component and a modified vertical force component of said third shear-pin load transducer formed in said removing step. 13. The method according to claim 8, wherein said measuring step comprises the step of analog-to-digital converting said non-linear output voltage from said strain gauge in each said shear-pin load transducer contained in said repairable high-payload six-axis load sensor. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said transforming step comprises the steps of: programming a computer to solve a first equation .DELTA.E=s*g*c*.DELTA.V; entering in said computer predetermined values for variables s, g and c contained in said first equation; providing to said computer as variable .DELTA.V said non-linear voltage measured in said analog-to-digital converting step; and, solving said first equation in said computer to determine non-linear gauge voltage .DELTA.E. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein said linearizing step comprises the steps of: programming said computer to solve a second equation ##EQU8## entering in said computer predetermined values for variables a.sub.j and b.sub.j ; providing to said computer as variables .DELTA.E.sub.x and .DELTA.E.sub.z said non-linear gauge voltages measured in said analog-to-digital converting step; and, solving said second equation in said computer to determine said vertical force component and said horizontal force component, F".sub.h and F".sub.v, respectively. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein said removing step comprises the steps of: programming a computer to solve third and fourth equations ##EQU9## entering in said computer predetermined values for variables .theta..sub.h contained in said third equation, and .theta..sub.t contained in said fourth equation; providing to said computer as variables F".sub.h and F".sub.v, said vertical force component and said horizontal force component computed in said linearizing step; and, successively solving said third and fourth equations in said computer to determine said modified vertical force component F.sub.v and said modified horizontal force component F.sub.h. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein said computing step comprises the steps of: programming said computer to solve a fifth equation ##EQU10## entering in said computer predetermined values for variables .theta..sub.1, .theta..sub.2, .theta..sub.3, p.sub.sx, p.sub.sy, p.sub.sz, p.sub.1x, p.sub.1y, p.sub.1z, p.sub.2x, p.sub.2y, and p.sub.2z ; first providing to said computer as variables F.sub.v1 and F.sub.h1, said modified vertical force component and said modified horizontal force component of a first shear-pin load transducer determined in said removing step; second providing to said computer as variables F.sub.v2 and F.sub.h2, said modified vertical force component and said modified horizontal force component of a second shear-pin load transducer determined in said removing step; third providing to said computer as variables F.sub.v3 and F.sub.h3, said modified vertical force component and said modified horizontal force component of a third shear-pin load transducer determined in said removing step; and, solving said fifth equation in said computer to determine said applied load comprising orthogonal forces F.sub.sx, F.sub.sy, and F.sub.sz, and three orthogonal moments M.sub.sx, M.sub.sy, and M.sub.sz. 18. A method for operating a repairable six-axis load sensor system, comprising the steps of: providing a table, a base and at least three two-axis force sensing units, said two-axis force sensing units each including a shear-pin load transducer removably mounted between said table and said base for measuring two orthogonal reaction forces between said table and said base and a structure for minimizing unmeasured axial loading on said shear-pin load transducer by transmitting reaction forces in an unmeasured third orthogonal direction to at least one of the other of said sensing units, said reaction forces produced by an applied load, each said shear-pin load transducer producing an electrical signal proportional to said reaction forces; removing any of said shear-pin transducers from said system; replacing said removed shear-pin transducer with a replacement shear-pin transducer in said system, and returning said system to operation after said replacing step. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said structure for transmitting reaction forces comprises at least one flexure, said flexure having at least one feature oriented perpendicular to an axis of minimum sensitivity characteristic of said removably mounted shear-pin load transducers. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said returning step can be implemented without recalibrating said system. 21. A repairable high-payload six-axis load sensor comprising: a table; a base; at least three two-axis force sensing units, said two-axis force sensing units each comprising: a two-axis load transducer removably mounted between said table and said base for measuring two orthogonal reaction forces between said table and said base and a structure for minimizing unmeasured axial loading on said two-axis load transducer by transmitting reaction forces in an unmeasured third orthogonal direction to at least one of the other of said sensing units, said reaction forces produced by an applied load, each said two-axis load transducer producing an electrical signal proportional to said reaction forces; and, computing means for receiving said proportional electrical signals and computing three orthogonal forces and three orthogonal torques produced by said applied load corresponding to said proportional electrical signals. 22. A high-payload load sensor comprising: a table; a base; at least two (2) two-axis force sensing units, said two-axis force sensing units each comprising: a two-axis load transducer disposed between said table and said base for measuring two orthogonal reaction forces between said table and said base and a structure for minimizing unmeasured axial loading on said shear-pin load transducer by transmitting reaction forces in an unmeasured third orthogonal direction to the other of said sensing units, said reaction forces produced by an applied load, each said two-axis load transducer producing an electrical signal related to said reaction forces; and, computing means for receiving said electrical signals and computing forces and torques produced by said applied load corresponding to said electrical signals. 23. The sensor according to claim 22, wherein said two-axis load transducers are shear-pin load transducer and said structures for minimizing unmeasured axial loading comprise least one flexure. 