A method and apparatus for bonding a bracket to a tooth includes processing that begins by obtaining a digital model of a desired bracket placement on a tooth. The processing continues by scanning actual placement of the bracket on the tooth to produce digital information of the actual placement and generating a digital model of the actual placement. The processing continues by comparing the digital model of the desired bracket placement with the digital model of the actual placement. When the digital model of the desired bracket placement substantially matches the digital model of the actual placement, enabling bonding of the bracket to the tooth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bonding of a bracket on to a tooth, the method comprising the steps of: a) obtaining a digital representation of at least one of a desired bracket placement on the tooth and a model thereof; b) scanning an actual placement of the bracket on the tooth to produce digital information of the actual placement; c) generating a digital representation of the actual placement; and d) determining whether the digital representation of the desired bracket placement substantially matches the digital representation of the actual placement. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprises repeating steps (a) through (d) for each of a plurality of teeth. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: when the digital representation of the desired bracket placement does not substantially match the digital representation of the actual placement, moving placement of the bracket; determining a replacement of the bracket to obtain a digital representation of the replacement of the bracket; comparing the digital representation of the desired bracket placement with the digital representation of the replacement; and when the digital representation of the desired bracket placement substantially matches the digital representation of the replacement, bonding the bracket to the tooth. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the placement further comprises positioning the bracket in a closed loop scanning process utilizing a robotic placement device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the placement further comprises positioning the bracket in a closed loop scanning process utilizing a handheld placement device. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprises providing corrective feedback on positioning based on the scanning. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprises displaying the actual placement on a monitor. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprises enabling a light source to cure a bonding adhesive such that the bracket is bonded to the tooth. 9. A method of bonding of a bracket on to a tooth, the method comprises the steps of: a) obtaining a digital representation of a desired bracket placement on the tooth; b) generating an actual placement reference based on the digital representation of the desired bracket placement; c) projecting the actual placement reference on to the tooth; and d) detecting positioning of the bracket with respect to the actual placement reference. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprises providing corrective feedback on positioning based on the scanning. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprises displaying the actual placement on a monitor. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprises enabling a light source to cure a bonding adhesive such that the bracket is bonded to the tooth. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein step (a) further comprises: scanning a physical model having the bracket placed thereon to obtain a digital representation of the physical model; and verifying placement of the bracket based on the digital representation of the physical model and the digital representation of the desired bracket placement on the tooth. 14. An apparatus for bonding of a bracket on to a tooth, the apparatus comprising in combination: at least one processing module; and memory operably coupled to the at least one processing module, wherein the memory stores operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to: (a) obtain a digital representation of a desired bracket placement on the tooth; (b) scan actual placement of the bracket on the tooth to produce digital information of the actual placement; (c) generate a digital representation of the actual placement; and (d) compare the digital representation of the desired bracket placement with the digital representation of the actual placement to determine if the desired bracket placement substantially matches the digital representation of the actual placement. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to repeat steps (a) through (d) for each of a plurality of teeth. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to: when the digital representation of the desired bracket placement does not substantially match the digital representation of the actual placement, move placement of the bracket; scan a replacement of the bracket to obtain a digital representation of the replacement of the bracket; and compare the digital representation of the desired bracket placement with the digital representation of the replacement to determine if the desired bracket placement substantially matches the digital representation of the replacement. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the placement further comprises positioning the bracket in a closed loop scanning process utilizing a robotic placement device. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprises a handheld placement device for positioning the bracket in a closed loop scanning process. 19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to provide corrective feedback on positioning based on the scanning. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to display the actual placement on a monitor. 21. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to provide instructions to enable a light source to cure a bonding adhesive such that the bracket is bonded to the tooth. 22. An apparatus for bonding of a bracket on to a tooth, the apparatus comprises: at least one processing module; and memory operably coupled to the at least one processing module, wherein the memory stores operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to: (a) obtain a digital representation of desired bracket placement on the tooth; (b) generate an actual placement reference based on the digital representation of the desired bracket placement; (c) project the actual placement reference on to the tooth using a projection system; and (d) detect positioning of the bracket with respect to the actual placement reference to determine if the bracket is substantially aligned with the actual placement reference. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to provide corrective feedback on positioning based on the scanning. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to display the actual placement on a monitor. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the memory further comprises operational instructions that cause the at least one processing module to provide instructions to enable a light source to cure a bonding adhesive such that the bracket is bonded to the tooth. 