A device for handling PCR microcards, each having an array of sample chambers closed by a transparent material on one side thereof, in relation to a PCR instrument, the device including a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes corresponding in number and relative location with the array of sample chambers in each of the microcards, and a provision for retaining a microcard on the carrier so that the transparent material faces the apertured region with the reagent sample chambers aligned, respectively, with the holes in the apertured region, and so that the side of the microcard opposite the transparent material is unobstructed at least throughout the array of sample chambers. The device cooperates with the PCR instrument to ensure accurate positioning of the carrier and the microcard retained thereon for real time PCR processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for handling PCR microcards, each having an array of sample chambers closed by a transparent material on one side thereof, in relation to a PCR instrument, the device comprising: a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes corresponding in number and relative location with the array of sample chambers in each of the microcards; means for retaining a microcard on the carrier so that the transparent material faces the apertured region with the sample chambers aligned, respectively, with the holes in the apertured region, and so that the side of the microcard opposite the transparent material is unobstructed at least throughout the array of sample chambers; and means for positioning the microcard retained on the carrier in relation to the PCR instrument. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the carrier comprises a carrier plate including the apertured region, and the means for retaining comprises a peripherally closed retention frame having an opening at least as large as the array of sample chambers and being fitted to the carrier to retain the microcard in relation to the carrier plate. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the retention frame includes a planar base and an inwardly extending marginal flange for seating the device on a flat top of a thermal cycling device of the PCR instrument. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the marginal flange is engageable with opposite edges of the microcard. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the marginal flange includes inwardly extending tabs to engage one end of the microcard. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the marginal flange defines an opening in the retention frame, the opening having a width at least equal to that of the microcard, and a length less than that of the microcard. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the opening defined by the marginal flange is shaped to complement with clearance, the peripheral shape of a thermal block having a microcard engaging surface elevated above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the thickness of the marginal flange is less than the elevation of the microcard engaging surface above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the top of the marginal flange is lower than the flat surface of the thermal cycling device and the bottom of the marginal flange is elevated above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device . 10. The device of claim 2, wherein the means for positioning the microcard comprises inclined ramps on the bottom of the carrier plate to engage and guide edges of the microcard upon relative movement of the carrier plate and microcard toward each other. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the means for positioning the microcard further includes raised, tapered surfaces aligned with each of the sample chambers and engageable in the respective holes in the carrier. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the means for positioning the microcard further includes inclined ramps on the top of the carrier plate engageable by edges of a heated cover plate of the PCR instrument to position the carrier plate and microcard during operation of the instrument. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the microcard has through-holes in marginal portions thereof outside the array of sample chambers, and the carrier comprises a plate member including the apertured region, and pins projecting from the plate member outside of the apertured region to engage in the through-holes. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the plate member has a bottom recess containing the apertured region and a peripheral margin from which the pins project. 15. The device of claim 14, further including a compression pad in the bottom recess, the compression pad including an array of holes corresponding in number and relative location with the holes in the carrier plate. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the microcard has a fill port near one edge thereof and including an elevated ledge in the recess and a tab portion on the compression pad to overlie the fill port, thereby to ensure sealed closure of the fill port. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the elevated ledge and the tab portion are of semi-circular configuration. 18. The device of claim 13, wherein the means for positioning the microcard comprises a thermal block attachable to the PCR instrument and having tapered holes to receive and position the pins projecting from the plate member. 19. A PCR instrument kit comprising: a supply of microcards, each having an array of transparent sample chambers, and a handling device for retaining a microcard so that the sample chambers are accessible for optical reading on one side of the handling device and unobstructed to placement of the sample chambers opposite from the one side directly against a thermal block of the PCR instrument. 20. The PCR kit of claim 19, including a thermal block replaceably attachable to a thermal cycling device of the PCR instrument; wherein the thermal block and the handling device are matched to each other and to the microcard to ensure accurate placement of the microcard in relation to the PCR instrument. 21. A device for handling PCR microcards, each having an array of sample chambers closed by a translucent material on one side thereof, in relation to a PCR instrument, the device comprising: a carrier having an apertured region with an array of holes corresponding in number and relative location with the array of sample chambers in each of the microcards; and a peripherally closed retention frame having an opening at least as large as the array of sample chambers and being fitted to the carrier to retain the microcard in relation to the carrier plate. 22. The device of claim 22, wherein the carrier comprises a carrier plate including the apertured region. 23. The device of claim 21, wherein the retention frame includes a planar base and an inwardly extending marginal flange for seating the device on a flat top of a thermal cycling device of the PCR instrument. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein the marginal flange is engageable with opposite edges of the microcard. 25. The device of claim 23, wherein the marginal flange includes inwardly extending tabs to engage one end of the microcard. 26. The device of claim 23, wherein the marginal flange defines the opening in the retention frame, the opening having a width at least equal to that of the microcard, and a length less than that of the microcard. 27. The device of claim 23, wherein the opening defined by the marginal flange is shaped to complement with clearance, the peripheral shape of a thermal block having a microcard engaging surface elevated above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein the thickness of the marginal flange is less than the elevation of the microcard engaging surface above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 29. The device of claim 27, wherein the top of the marginal flange is lower than the flat surface of the thermal cycling device and the bottom of the marginal flange is elevated above the flat surface of the thermal cycling device. 30. The device of claim 22, wherein the carrier comprises inclined ramps on the bottom of the carrier plate to engage and guide edges of the microcard upon relative movement of the carrier plate and microcard toward each other. 31. The device of claim 30, further comprising raised, tapered surfaces aligned with each of the sample chambers and engageable in respective holes of the carrier. 32. The device of claim 31, further comprising inclined ramps on the top of the carrier plate engageable by edges of a heated cover plate of the PCR instrument to position the carrier plate and microcard during operation of the instrument. 33. The device of claim 21, wherein the microcard defines through- holes in marginal portions thereof outside the array of sample chambers, and the carrier comprises a plate member including the apertured region and pins projecting from the plate member outside of the apertured region to engage the through-holes. 34. The device of claim 33, wherein the plate member defines a bottom recess containing the apertured region and a peripheral margin from which the pins project. 35. The device of claim 24, further including a compression pad in the bottom of the recess, the compression pad including an array of holes corresponding in number and relative location with the holes in the carrier plate. 36. The device of claim 35, wherein the microcard defines a fill port near one edge thereof, the plate member includes an elevated ledge in the recess, and the compression pad includes a tab portion configured to overlie the fill port, thereby ensuring sealed closure of the fill port. 37. The device of claim 36, wherein the elevated ledge and the tab portion are of semi-circular configuration. 38. The device of claim 33, further comprising a thermal block attachable to the PCR instrument, the thermal block defining tapered holes for receiving and positioning the pins projecting from the plate member. 