A photolithographic track system for semiconductor wafer manufacture, that includes an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM), having a scanning stylus probe measurement device coupled to the AFM head, for measuring overlay between masks and layers in an inspected wafer, so as to generate overlay data. The AFM is situated in-track.
Claims Those versed in the art will readily appreciate that various modifications and alterations may be carried out without departing from the scope of the following claims: 1. A photolithography track system for semiconductor wafer manufacture, comprising: (a) an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) that includes: a scanning stylus probe measurement device coupled to the AFM head, for measuring overlay between masks and respective layers in an inspected wafer, so as to generate overlay data; (b) said AFM is situated in-track to provide at least one station in said photolithography track system. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said AFM operates in contact mode. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said AFM operates in capacitance mode. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: (a) an optical microscope situated above and in correlation with the scanning stylus probe of said AFM, for viewing an area in the inspected wafer; (b) an electronic camera, coupled to said microscope for generating an electrical signal indicative of said area; (c) a display output module coupled to said camera for receiving said electrical signal and displaying images corresponding thereto. 5. A photolithography track system for semiconductor wafer manufacture, comprising: (a) an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) that includes: a scanning stylus probe measurement device coupled to the AFM head, for measuring overlay between masks and respective layers in an inspected wafer, so as to generate overlay data; (b) said AFM situated in-track; (c) an interface module connected to said AFM to provide a bidirectional data link between said AFM and external systems. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising: a decision module connected to said interface for comparing said overlay data with reference overlay data and for providing an overlay error indication in the case that said overlay data deviated from said reference overlay data. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising: a feedback module coupled to said decision module and being responsive to said overlay error indication for activating an on-line feedback. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising: a visual binary indication module coupled to said feedback module and being indicative of said overlay error indication. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said indication module is visual numeric. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein said indication module is audible binary. 11. The system of claim 5, further comprising: a logging module coupled to said interface module, for logging at least part of said overlay data. 12. The system of claim 5, further comprising: (a) a pattern recognition algorithm module coupled to said interface module for generating an electrical signal indicative of alignment of said area and stored reference; (b) a positioning controller connected to said pattern recognition algorithm module for receiving said electrical signal indicative of coordinates of said area to position said scanning stylus probe in said area. 13. The system of claim 5, further comprising: (a) a parallel movable arm coupled to said AFM head, for moving spatially stylus probe head to said area; (b) a linear motor coupled to said arm for moving said arm; (c) a piezo-electric base module, situated between said arm and said stylus probe, for moving said stylus probe head in minute spatial movements and; (d) a wafer turntable module connected to wafer holding module, for rotating said wafer to said angular segment of said area. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said linear motor is a piezo-electric device. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein: (a) said parallel movable arm is a pivoted movable arm; (b) a rotational stylus probe positioning module, situated between the arm of the AFM head and the piezo-electric base module, for positioning said stylus probe in such a direction that scan direction is perpendicular to object direction, thus facilitating dissectional scanning. 16. The system of claim 5, further comprising: (a) a multitude of scanning stylus probe arms connected to said AFM head base; said scanning stylus probe arms movable independently relative to each other; (b) a coordinating positional module coupled to said each arm movement module for resolving conflicting multiple stylus probe arms positioning. 17. The system of claims 13, 14, 15 or 16, further comprising: (a) an interferometer to obtain precise and independent information of location of stylus probe; (b) a multitude of mirrors, each positioned on respectively each of said multitude of stylus probe arms and other suitable locations. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein said scanning stylus probe arms are in a rigged position relative to each other. 19. The system of claim 16, further comprising: (a) a multitude of endoscopic type of microscopes, each situated at one side of a coherent optical fiber cable to produce an image indicative of the area on the wafer said scanning stylus probe is currently measuring; (b) a multitude of said coherent optical fiber cables for transferring output of each said endoscopic type of microscope to the other ends of said coherent optical fiber cables; (c) an electronic camera for generating an electrical signal indicative of said area; (d) a display output module coupled to said camera for receiving said electrical signal and displaying images corresponding thereto; (e) an optical switching module coupled to said other ends of said coherent optical fiber cables to select and relay a single output of said endoscopic type of microscopes to said camera. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the said optical switching module selects at least two of said coherent optical fiber cables to said camera simultaneously and to relay said outputs in a mosaic manner to said display output module. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein: (a) said electronic camera is a multitude of electronic cameras, each at one said other end of said coherent optical fiber cable for generating an electrical signal indicative of said area; (b) said optical switching module is a video type of switching module for connecting one of said electrical signals from each said camera to said display output module. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said video switching module selects at least two of said electrical signals from each said camera to said display output module simultaneously and to generate from said electrical signals a composite signal that represents in a mosaic manner the visual output of said cameras. 23. The system of claim 4, wherein: (a) said external system is a FEM; (b) said decision module is connected to a look up table module for providing feedback information about FEM results. 24. A photolithography track system for semiconductor wafer manufacture, comprising: (a) an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) that includes: a scanning stylus probe measurement device coupled to the AFM head for measuring Critical Dimension (CD) variations between lines in layers of an inspected wafer, so as to generate CD data; (b) said AFM is situated in-track to provide at least one station in said photolithography track system. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein said AFM operates in contact mode. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein said AFM operates in capacitance mode. 27. The system of claim 24, further comprising: (a) an optical microscope situated above and in correlation with the scanning stylus probe of said AFM, for viewing an area in the inspected wafer; (b) an electronic camera, coupled to said microscope for generating an electrical signal indicative of said area; (c) a display output module coupled to said camera for receiving said electrical signal and displaying images corresponding thereto. 28. A photolithography track system for semiconductor wafer manufacture, comprising: (a) an Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) that includes: a scanning stylus probe measurement device coupled to the AFM head for measuring Critical Dimension (CD) variations between lines in layers of an inspected wafer, so as to generate CD data; (b) said AFM situated in-track; (c) an interface module connected to said AFM to provide a bidirectional data link between said AFM and external systems. 29. The system of claim 28, further comprising: a decision module connected to said interface for comparing said CD data with reference CD data and for providing an CD error indication in the case that said CD data deviated from said reference CD data. 30. The system of claim 29, further comprising: a feedback module coupled to said decision module and being responsive to said CD error indication for activating an on-line feedback. 31. The system of claim 30, further comprising: a visual binary indication module coupled to said feedback module and being indicative of said CD error indication. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein said indication module is visual numeric. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein said indication module is audible binary. 34. The system of claim 28, further comprising: a logging module coupled to said interface module, for logging at least part of said CD data. 35. The system of claim 28, further comprising: (a) a pattern recognition algorithm module coupled to said interface module for generating an electrical signal indicative of alignment of said area and stored reference; (b) a positioning controller connected to said pattern recognition algorithm module for receiving said electrical signal indicative of coordinates of said area to position said scanning stylus probe in said area. 36. The system of claim 28, further comprising: (a) a parallel movable arm coupled to said AFM head, for moving spatially stylus probe head to said area; (b) a linear motor coupled to said arm for moving said arm; (c) a piezo-electric base module situated between said arm and said stylus probe, for moving said stylus probe head in minute spatial movements and; (d) a wafer turntable module connected to wafer holding module, for rotating said wafer to said angular segment of said area. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein said linear motor is a piezo-electric device. 38. The system of claim 36, wherein: (a) said parallel movable arm is a pivoted movable arm; (b) a rotational stylus probe positioning module, situated between the arm of the AFM head and the piezo-electric base module, for positioning said stylus probe in such a direction that scan direction is perpendicular to object direction, thus facilitating dissectional scanning. 39. The system of claim 28, further comprising: (a) a multitude of scanning stylus probe arms connected to said AFM head base; said scanning stylus probe arms movable independently relative to each other; (b) a coordinating positional module coupled to each said arm movement module for resolving conflicting multiple stylus probe arms positioning. 40. The system of claims 36, 37, 38 or 39, further comprising: (a) an interferometer to obtain precise and independent information of location of stylus probe; (b) a multitude of mirrors, each positioned on respectively each of said multitude of stylus probe arms and other suitable locations. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein said scanning stylus probe arms are in a rigged position relative to each other. 42. The system of claim 39, further comprising: (a) a multitude of endoscopic type of microscopes, each situated at one side of a coherent optical fiber cable to produce an image indicative of the area on the wafer said scanning stylus probe is currently measuring; (b) a multitude of said coherent optical fiber cables for transferring output of each said endoscopic type of microscope to the other ends of said coherent optical fiber cables; (c) an electronic camera for generating an electrical signal indicative of said area; (d) a display output module coupled to said camera for receiving said electrical signal and displaying images corresponding thereto; (e) an optical switching module coupled to said other ends of said coherent optical fiber cables to select and relay a single output of said endoscopic type of microscopes to said camera. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein the said optical switching module selects at least two of said coherent optical fiber cables to said camera simultaneously and to relay said outputs in a mosaic manner to said display output module. 44. The system of claim 42, wherein: (a) said electronic camera is a multitude of electronic cameras, each at one said other end of said coherent optical fiber cable for generating an electrical signal indicative of said area; (b) said optical switching module is a video type of switching module for connecting one of said electrical signals from each said camera to said display output module. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein said video switching module selects at least two of said electrical signals from each said camera to said display output module simultaneously and to generate from said electrical signals a composite signal that represents in a mosaic manner the visual output of said cameras. 