A method and apparatus for providing safe and low-cost force feedback peripherals for consumer applications. A device microprocessor local to an interface device is coupled to the host by a first interface bus. The microprocessor receives host commands from the host computer on the first interface bus, such as an RS-232 interface, and commands an actuator to apply a force to a user object, such as a joystick, in response to host commands. A sensor detects positions of the user object and outputs signals to the host on a second interface bus, such as a PC game port bus, separate from the first bus. In a "recoil" embodiment, a user initiates force feedback by pressing a button on the joystick, which sends an activation signal to the actuator. In other recoil embodiments, the host computer can transmit one or more enable signals and/or activation signals to the actuator to enable or command forces. A safety switch of the present invention disables the actuator when the interface device is not in use and enables the actuator when an amount of weight over a predetermined amount is placed on the joystick created by a user grasping the joystick. A circuit of the present invention includes a capacitor for storing power provided by an input signal and supplied to the actuator when forces are to be output.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A force feedback interface device used by a user and for use with a host computer running a software application, said interface device providing a reflex capability wherein a force sensation is generated locally, the interface device comprising: a user object physically contacted by a user for manipulation by said user in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin; a sensor for detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer, thereby allowing said software application to update a process in response to said manipulation of said user object; a user adjustable button local to said interface apparatus, a state of said button being conveyed to said host computer to allow said software application to update a process in response to said state of said button; an actuator physically coupled to a housing of said interface device, said actuator applying forces to said user to produce said force sensation; and a local microprocessor separate from said host computer and electrically coupled to said actuator and to said user adjustable button, said local microprocessor executing a local process, said local microprocessor coupled to said host computer by a communication bus and outputting signals to said actuator such that said actuator applies said forces in response to signals produced by said local microprocessor, wherein said local process locally generates a force sensation independently of said host computer by modulating a magnitude of said forces produced by said actuator over a period of time, said locally-generated force sensation initiated when said button is depressed by said user such that said force sensation feels associated with said button press. 2. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force sensation ceases upon release of said button by said user. 3. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said period of time is conveyed to said local microprocessor by said host computer as a duration parameter in a host command. 4. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said user adjustable button is one of a plurality of user adjustable buttons included in said interface device, and wherein button-reflex data is stored local to said interface device, said button-reflex data indicating which of said plurality of user adjustable buttons have been associated with particular ones of a plurality of force sensations generated by said local process. 5. An interface device as recited in claim 4 wherein said button-reflex data is derived from parameters received from said host computer over said communication bus. 6. An interface device as recited in claim 4 wherein said button-reflex data includes a repeat rate indicating a length of time after a force sensation has been output that said force sensation is to be re-executed if the initiating button is held in a particular state. 7. An interface device as recited in claim 4 wherein said button-reflex capability associated with a particular button on said interface device is enabled in response to a high level host command, wherein said host command includes a parameter representing which of said plurality of buttons is to trigger a force sensation, said force sensation being specified by a host command. 8. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force sensation initiated in response to a locally detected change in state of a user adjustable button is a jolt sensation. 9. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force sensation initiated in response to a locally detected change in state of a user adjustable button is a damping sensation. 10. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force sensation initiated in response to a locally detected change in state of a user adjustable button is a force profile sensation wherein forces applied by said actuator are derived from a list of values in memory local to said interface device. 11. An interface device as recited in claim 10 wherein said list of values is downloaded to said local microprocessor over said communication bus. 12. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said communication bus includes a PC Game Port. 13. An interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein said communication bus also includes a serial port in parallel with said PC Game Port. 14. An interface device as recited in claim 1 further including a dead-man safety switch that prevents actuators from producing any forces upon said user object when said user is not properly engaging said user object. 15. An interface device as recited in claim 14 wherein said dead-man safety switch is a hand weight activated switch. 16. An interface device as recited in claim 14 wherein said dead-man safety switch is an optical switch, said optical safety switch being closed when said user covers an optical sensor when grasping said user object. 17. An interface device as recited in claim 14 wherein said safety switch includes a plurality of touch plates coupled to said interface device, wherein said safety switch is closed when said user creates an electrical connection between said plurality of touch plates by touching all of said touch plates. 18. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said period of time is derived from a host command sent to said interface device from said host computer over said communication bus. 19. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said local generation of said force sensation is re-initiated when said button is held by said user in a particular state for more than a defined period of time after a previous generation of said force sensation. 20. An interface device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a power storage circuit coupled locally to said interface device, wherein power for said actuators is drawn over time from a power source and at least a portion of said power is stored in said power storage circuit, said stored power able to be discharged across said actuator, thereby allowing said actuator to produce a transient force sensation of greater magnitude than if powered directly by said power source. 21. An interface device as recited in claim 20 wherein said power source provides said power over said communication bus between said local microprocessor and said host computer. 22. An interface device as recited in claim 21 wherein said communication bus is a universal serial bus connection between said host computer and said interface device. 23. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator is a motor, and and further comprising a temperature sensor electrically coupled to said local microprocessor for measuring heat produced by said motor, wherein said local process is operative to deactivate said motor in response to said temperature sensor reporting a value above a predetermined threshold. 24. An interface device as recited in claim 23 wherein said local process performs a software estimation of motor heating and deactivates said motor when said estimation exceeds a threshold. 25. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said host computer is a video game console and said communication bus includes game console control port lines. 26. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force sensation is initiated by said local process without any communication between said host computer and said local microprocessor. 27. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force sensation is initiated by said host computer. 28. An interface device as recited in claim 27 wherein said force sensation is initiated by said local microprocessor receiving a host command from said host computer. 29. A method for interfacing a user of a force feedback device with a host computer running a software application, said force feedback device providing a force reflex capability and including a user object that is physically contacted by said user for manipulation by said user in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin, the method comprising: detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer, thereby allowing said software application to update a process in response to manipulation of said user object; conveying a state of a user adjustable button to said host computer to allow said software application to update a process in response to said state of said button, said button being local to said force feedback device; applying forces to said user to produce said force sensation using an actuator physically coupled to a housing of said force feedback device; and executing a local process using a local microprocessor separate from said host computer and electrically coupled to said actuator and to said button, and outputting signals from said local microprocessor to said actuator such that said actuator applies said forces in response to signals produced by said local microprocessor, wherein said local process locally generates a force sensation by modulating a magnitude of said forces produced by said actuator over a period of time, said locally-generated force sensation initiated when said button is depressed by said user such that said force sensation feels associated with said button press. 30. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said force sensation ceases upon release of said button by said user. 31. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said period of time is conveyed to said local processor by said host computer as a duration parameter in a host command. 32. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said user adjustable button is one of a plurality of user adjustable buttons included in said interface device, and further comprising storing button-reflex data local to said force feedback device, said data indicating which of said plurality of user adjustable buttons have been associated with particular ones of a plurality of force sensations. 33. A method as recited in claim 32 wherein said button-reflex data is derived from parameters received from said host computer over said communication bus. 34. A method as recited in claim 33 wherein said button-reflex data includes a repeat rate indicating a length of a period of time after a force sensation has been output that said force sensation is to be re-executed if said initiating button is held in a particular state. 35. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said button-reflex capability associated with a particular button on said force feedback device is enabled in response to a high level host command, wherein said host command includes a parameter representing which button is to trigger a force sensation, said force sensation being specified by a host command. 36. A method as recited in claim 29 further comprising preventing said actuators from producing any forces upon said user object when said user is not properly engaging said user object by closing a dead-man safety switch. 37. A method as recited in claim 36 wherein said dead-man safety switch is a hand weight activated switch. 38. A method as recited in claim 36 wherein said dead-man safety switch is an optical switch, said optical safety switch being closed when said user covers an optical sensor when grasping said user object. 39. A method as recited in claim 29 further comprising re-initiating said local generation of said force sensation when said button is held by said user in a particular state for more than a defined period of time after a previous generation of said force sensation. 40. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said actuator is a motor, and further comprising measuring heat produced by said motor using a temperature sensor electrically coupled to said local microprocessor, wherein said local process deactivates said motor in response to said temperature sensor reporting a value above a threshold. 41. A method as recited in claim 29 wherein said host computer is a video game console and said communication bus includes game console control port lines. 42. An interface device as recited in claim 29 wherein said force sensation is initiated by said local process without any communication between said host computer and said local microprocessor. 43. An interface device as recited in claim 29 wherein said force sensation is initiated by said host computer. 44. An interface device as recited in claim 43 wherein said force sensation is initiated by said local microprocessor receiving a host command from said host computer. 45. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer running a software application, said interface device providing a reflex capability wherein a force sensation is generated locally, the interface device comprising: means for receiving physical contact by a user and for allowing motion of said contact in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin; means for detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer, thereby allowing said software application to update a process in response to manipulation of said user object; means for conveying a state of a user adjustable control to said host computer to allow said software application to update a process in response to said state of said control, said control being local to said force feedback device; means for applying forces upon said user object along said degree of freedom to produce said force sensation; and means for executing a local process separately from said host computer and outputting signals to said means for applying forces such that said means for applying forces applies said forces in response to signals produced by said local process, wherein said local process locally generates a force sensation by modulating a magnitude of said forces produced by said means for applying forces over a period of time, said local process initiated when said user adjustable control is activated by said user such that said force sensation feels associated with said control activation. 