An autonomous remote controlled vehicle for use in the automation of an existing refrigerated flow through storage facility food processing application. The remote vehicle is specifically designed to operate within a network of centrally controlled remote vehicles that are adapted to receive selectable items from production and temporarily store them for later retrieval. The system is adapted to minimize travel time for the remote vehicle and optimize cycle time. The system is specifically adapted to handle cardboard shipping boxes containing meat products.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A skid handling system for a flow through storage facility comprising: a)a flow through storage bin having a conveyor operable to convey a skid; b)a rack attached to said storage bin and adapted to receive and support an empty skid; c)a skid conveyor belt operatively attached to said storage bin and having spaced skid conveyor prongs extending perpendicularly from the belt, said belt positioned so that when the belt conveys, the skid conveyor prongs are positioned adjacent the skid and move the skid along the rack for proper storage; and d)a skid conveyor drive interface mechanically engaging said skid conveyor to power said skid conveyor. 2. A skid handling system as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a)a remote vehicle having a platform adapted to receive a skid and having a mechanical hook operatively connected to said vehicle and adapted to extend and hook an empty skid and pull onto said platform and push said empty skid off of said platform; and b)a skid conveyor drive mechanism operatively attached to said remote vehicle and adapted to drive the skid conveyor drive interface. 3. A skid lift and indexing mechanism for use in flow through storage bins having a conveyor system on which a plurality of spaced apart loaded skids are conveyed comprising: a)a lifting mechanism having a spring loaded lift member generating a lift force and said spring loaded lift member adapted to depress when a sufficient downward force is applied to said lift member overcoming the lift force; and b)an indexing member operative with respect to the lift mechanism and adapted to elevate at a position between a front skid and a skid immediately rear of said front skid when the lift force is overcome depressing said lift member, wherein a space is maintained between the two skids, and adapted to lower when no sufficient downward force is applied to depress said lift member. 4. The skid lift and indexing mechanism as recited in claim 3 where said lift mechanism further comprises parallel glide members proximately spaced apart and rotateable about a common axle to facilitate conveying a skid over said lift mechanism. 5. The skid lift and indexing mechanism as recited in claim 3 where said indexing member further comprises an upward facing roller to facilitate conveying a skid over the lift and indexing member. 6. A skid handling system for flow through storage comprising: a)a flow through storage bin having a skate roller conveyor canted downward toward one end of the bin and operable to convey a skid toward the one end; b)a rack attached to said storage bin and adapted to receive and support an empty skid; c)a skid conveyor belt operatively attached to said storage bin and having spaced skid conveyor prongs extending perpendicularly from the belt, said belt positioned so that when the belt conveys, the skid conveyor prongs are positioned adjacent the skid and move the skid along the rack for proper storage; d)a skid conveyor drive interface mechanically engaging said skid conveyor to power said skid conveyor; e)a lifting mechanism attached to said storage bin and positioned at the one end and having a spring loaded lift member generating a lift force and said spring loaded lift member adapted to depress when a sufficient downward force is applied to said lift member overcoming the lift force; and f)an indexing member operative with respect to the lift mechanism and adapted to elevate at a position between a front skid and a skid immediately rear of said front skid when the lift force is overcome depressing said lift member, wherein a space is maintained between the two skids, and adapted to lower when no sufficient downward force is applied to depress said lift member. 7. A skid handling system as recited in claim 6 where said lift mechanism further comprises parallel glide members proximately spaced apart and rotateable about a common axle to facilitate conveying a skid over said lift mechanism. 8. A skid handling system as recited in claim 6 where said indexing member further comprises an upward facing roller to facilitate conveying a skid over the lift and indexing member. 9. A skid handling system for flow through storage as recited in claim 6 further comprising: a)a remote vehicle having a platform adapted to receive a skid an d having a mechanical hook operatively connected to said vehicle and adapted to extend and hook an empty skid and pull onto said platform and push said empty skid off of said platform; and b)a skid conveyor drive mechanism operatively attached to said remote vehicle and adapted to drive the skid conveyor drive interface. 10. A method of lifting and indexing skids for use in flow through storage bins: a)indexing with an indexing member a first skid immediately rear the indexing member as the first skid is being conveyed toward the indexing member on a conveyor; b)lifting an empty skid immediately forward the indexing member with a lift mechanism operable to generate a lift force sufficient to lift an empty skid; c)removing s aid empty skid for storing with a mobile remote vehicle and releasing the first skid from the indexing member responsive to removing said empty skid and conveying said first skid over the lift member, depressing said lift member; and d)indexing with the indexing member a second skid immediately rear the indexing member responsive to depressing said lift member. 11. A method of lifting and indexing skids as recited in claim 10 where said lift mechanism further comprises parallel glide members proximately spaced apart and rotateable about a common axle to facilitate conveying a skid over said lift mechanism, said method further comprising the step of: rotating one end of said glide members downward for receiving a subsequent skid. 12. A method of handling skids in a flow through storage system comprising: a)providing a flow through storage bin having a conveyor and conveying skids on said conveyor; b)receiving an empty skid from said conveyor and supporting the empty skid with a rack attached to said storage bin; c)moving the skid along the rack with a skid conveyor belt operatively attached to said storage bin and having spaced skid conveyor prongs extending perpendicular from the belt so that when the belt conveys, the skid conveyor prongs are positioned adjacent the skid; and d)driving the skid conveyor with a skid conveyor drive interface mechanically engaging said conveyor. 13. The method of handling skids recited in claim 12 further comprising the steps of: a)providing a remote vehicle having a platform adapted to receive a skid and having a mechanical hook operatively connected to said vehicle; b)extending said hook and hooking an empty skid and pulling onto said platform; c)pushing said empty skid off said platform into the rack; and d)driving the skid conveyor drive interface with a drive mechanism attached to said remote vehicle and adapted to drive the skid conveyor drive interface. 14. A method of handling skids in a flow through storage system comprising: a)indexing with an indexing member a first skid immediately rear the indexing member as the skid is being conveyed toward the indexing member on a conveyor; b)lifting an empty skid immediately forward the indexing member with a lift member operable to generate a lift force sufficient to lift an empty skid; c)removing said empty skid for storing with a mobile remote vehicle releasing the first skid from the indexing member and conveying said first skid over the lift member, depressing said lift member; d)receiving and supporting said empty skid with a rack attached to said storage bin; e)moving the skid along the rack with a skid conveyor belt operatively attached to said storage bin and having spaced skid conveyor prongs extending perpendicular from the belt so that when the belt conveys, the skid conveyor prongs are positioned adjacent the skid; f)driving the skid conveyor with a skid conveyor drive interface mechanically engaging said conveyor. 15. A method of handling skids in a flow through storage system comprising the step of: a)providing a flow through storage bin having a conveyor operable to convey a skid and said bin having a rack attached to said storage bin adapted to receive an empty skid from said conveyor and support the empty skid and said bin having a conveyor belt with skid conveyor prongs operable to move the skid along the rack when said conveyor is powered; and b)providing a spring loaded lift mechanism operable to provide a lift force and further operable to depress when a sufficient downward force is applied to said lift member overcoming the lift force and said lift mechanism having an indexing member operatively attached thereto and said member adapted to elevate to a position for indexing a skid when said lift member is depressed and lower to release the skid when the lift member is not depressed. 