A method for processing a semiconductor wafer or similar article includes the step of spinning the wafer and applying a fluid to a first side of the wafer, while it is spinning. The fluid flows radially outwardly in all directions, over the first side of the wafer, via centrifugal force. As the fluid flows off of the circumferential edge of the wafer, it is contained in an annular reservoir, so that the fluid also flows onto an outer annular area of the second side of the wafer. An opening allows fluid to flow out of the reservoir. The opening defines the location of a parting line beyond which the fluid will not travel on the second side of the wafer. An apparatus for processing a semiconductor wafer or similar article includes a reactor having a processing chamber formed by upper and lower rotors. The wafer is supported between the rotors. The rotors are rotated by a spin motor. A processing fluid is introduced onto the top or bottom surface of the wafer, or onto both surfaces, at a central location. The fluid flows outwardly uniformly and in all directions. A wafer support automatically lifts the wafer, so that it can be removed from the reactor by a robot, when the rotors separate from each other after processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing a workpiece, comprising the steps of: spinning the workpiece; applying a processing fluid to a first side of the workpiece; allowing the processing fluid to flow outwardly over the first side of the workpiece, via centrifugal force generated by the spinning; collecting the processing fluid at the perimeter of the workpiece, so that the processing fluid flows onto an outer annular area of a second side of the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece spins about a vertical axis, and the first side of the workpiece is the top side. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece spins about a vertical axis, and the first side of the workpiece is the bottom side. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of supporting the workpiece on spacing pins within a reactor, so that substantially the entire first surface of the workpiece is exposed to the fluid. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of confining the fluid within an annular chamber around the outer annular area on the second surface. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of cutting off the introduction of fluid to the first surface of the workpiece, and continuing to spin the article. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of creating an annular reservoir of fluid at the perimeter of the workpiece. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of confining the workpiece between an upper rotor and a lower rotor, and spinning the workpiece by spinning the rotors. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of supporting the workpiece on spacing members between the upper and lower rotors, with the first side and the second side of the workpiece spaced apart from the upper rotor, and the lower rotor, respectively, by a dimension D. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein D equals 0.5-1.2 mm. 11. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of sealing the upper rotor against the lower rotor. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying the fluid at a central area of the workpiece. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying the fluid at a specified flow rate to create an annular reservoir at the perimeter of the workpiece, and then draining fluid out of the reservoir at the specified flow rate, to maintain the fluid in the reservoir at a constant volume. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of maintaining the fluid on a fixed annular area of the second surface of the workpiece. 15. A method for processing a semiconductor article, comprising the steps of: supporting a first surface of the article on a plurality of first spacing pins on a first rotor; moving an first rotor and the second rotor towards each other; supporting a second surface of the article on a plurality of second spacing pins on the second rotor; sealing the second rotor against the first rotor, to form an annular reservoir chamber between them, with the article having a perimeter area extending into the annular reservoir chamber; rotating the first and second rotors together; introducing a processing fluid onto the first surface of the article; allowing the fluid to flow radially outwardly over the first surface via centrifugal force; collecting the fluid in the annular reservoir chamber, so that the chamber fills with fluid; and withdrawing fluid from the chamber via an opening overlying the perimeter area. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of introducing fluid and withdrawing fluid at the same volumetric flow rate, after the reservoir chamber is filled. 17. A method of processing an annular edge area of an article, comprising the steps of: positioning the annular edge area of the article within an annular reservoir chamber; spinning the annular reservoir chamber and the article; filling the chamber with a processing fluid; and maintaining the fluid within the annular reservoir chamber, so that the fluid contacts only the annular edge area of the article. 18. A method for processing a workpiece comprising the steps of: spinning the workpiece; introducing a process liquid to a perimeter area of the workpiece; and confining the process liquid to the perimeter area of the workpiece. 19. The method of claim 18 where the process liquid is confined by spinning an annular chamber with the workpiece, and with the annular chamber enclosing the perimeter area of the workpiece. 20. The method of claim 18 where the process liquid is introduced to the perimeter area by moving radially outwardly to the perimeter area via centrifugal force. 21. The method of claim 20 where the process liquid is applied to a central area of the workpiece. 22. The method of claim 21 where the workpiece comprises a round semiconductor wafer. 23. The method of claim 18 where the workpiece has a top surface and a bottom surface, further including the step of excluding the process from a central area of at least one of the top and bottom surfaces, via centrifugal force. 24. The method of claim 18 where the workpiece has circular edge, and the perimeter area extends from 1-5 mm inwardly from the edge towards a center point of the workpiece. 25. The method of claim 18 where the spinning is performed about vertical axis. 26. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of introducing a purge gas to the workpiece. 27. A method of processing a workpiece having a top surface, and a bottom surface, and a circular edge, comprising the steps of: placing the workpiece into a first rotor; engaging a second rotor with the first rotor, with the first and second rotors together forming an annular chamber enclosing at least a perimeter area of the workpiece, adjacent to the circular edge of the workpiece; spinning the engaged first and second rotors; filling the annular chamber sufficiently with a liquid so that the liquid contacts the perimeter area of the workpiece, on the top surface and on the bottom surface; and containing the liquid within the annular chamber. 28. The method of claim 27 further comprising the step of supplying liquid into the annular chamber, and draining liquid out of the annular chamber, while the annular chamber is spinning. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising the steps of holding the spin speed constant for selected amount of time, and maintaining a constant volume of liquid in the annular chamber, to form a separation line on at least one of the top and bottom surfaces. 30. The method of claim 27 wherein the workpiece is round. 31. The method of claim 27 wherein the first and second chamber entirely enclose the workpiece. 32. The method of claim 27 further including the step of supporting the workpiece spaced apart from the first rotor and the second rotor. 33. The method of claim 27 where in the first and second rotors have first and second chamber walls, respectively, and with first and second chamber walls spaced apart by from 1.5-3.6 mm. 34. The method of claim 27 further including the step of sealing the second rotor against the first rotor. 35. The method of claim 27 where the annular chamber is filled by applying liquid to the top surface of the workpiece adjacent a center area of the workpiece and moving the liquid radially outwardly over the top surface and into the annular chamber, via centrifugal force. 36. A method for processing a workpiece, comprising the steps of: spinning the workpiece; applying a first fluid to a first side of the workpiece; applying a second fluid to a second side of the workpiece; allowing the first and second fluids to flow outwardly over the first and second sides of the workpiece, respectively, via centrifugal force generated by the spinning; and containing the first and second fluids at the perimeter of the workpiece. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the perimeter of the workpiece is surrounded by an annular chamber, and wherein the first and second fluids are kept in the annular chamber by centrifugal force. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein the first fluid comprises an etchant and the second fluid comprises an inert fluid. 