An interactive system for teaching, entertaining, and habituating a child utilizes an interactive entity such as a doll, the doll having input and output elements and control circuitry adapted for driving the I/O elements, and a bi-directional communication link to a personal computer (PC). Scripted data stored at the computer directs doll activity and verbal articulation, and utilizes response from the child through the doll to the PC in directing output to the doll. The communication between the doll and the PC treats the doll as a peripheral device. In specific embodiments the interactive doll has servo-mechanisms for providing doll motion, such as eye and mouth and limb movement, which may be coordinated with verbalization in different scripts by commands retrieved at the computer and sent to the doll. In a preferred embodiment environments and applications are provided on CD-ROM disks which may also provide the operating application for the interactive doll system. Systems may be adapted for a broad range of functionality, such as acquaintance of a child with foreign languages, story telling, indirect interaction between an adult and a child through the medium of the doll, and much more.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive system comprising: a personal computer (PC) having a CPU, a memory, a first communication port adapted for peripheral communication coupled to the CPU, and control routines executable by the CPU; a personalized entity separate from the PC, having therein control circuitry coupled to one or more of input, sensing, and output devices, and to a second communication port adapted for peripheral communication; and a communication link coupling the first and the second communication ports; wherein, through execution of the control routines by the CPU, communication is executed between the PC and the personalized entity as a peripheral device, wherein stored data is retrieved by the CPU, passed to the personalized entity via the communication link, utilized in the personalized entity, and wherein data generated at the personalized entity is transferred to the computer via the communication link, and is utilized at the computer in conjunction with the control routines to guide selection of stored data to be retrieved and sent to the personalized entity; and direct voice communication is allowed between the PC and the personalized entity. 2. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein the personalized entity is a doll. 3. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein the communication link coupling the first and the second communication ports is a two-way wireless communication link. 4. An interactive system as in claim 1 comprising multiple personalized entities coupled to a single computer and operated simultaneously. 5. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein devices at the personalized entity include servo-mechanisms adapted for manipulating parts of the personalized entity, and wherein the control circuitry comprises an input/output (I/O) interface to switch power from an on-board power supply to activate individual ones of the servo-mechanisms to provide motion according to data sent to the personalized entity via the communication link. 6. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein sensing devices at the personalized entity include sensors adapted for sensing one or more of movement and environmental characteristics in the environment of the doll, and wherein data derived from the sensors is communicated via the communication link to the computer and utilized in conjunction with the control routines to guide selection of commands to be sent to the personalized entity. 7. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein devices at the personalized entity include a speaker adapted for enunciating audio data sent to the personalized entity via the communication link. 8. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein devices at the personalized entity include a microphone adapted for receiving speech from a user of the doll, and wherein the control circuitry in the personalized entity converts the input speech to audio data, and sends the audio data by the communication link to the PC. 9. An interactive personal article comprising: a microcontroller; audio circuitry, a speaker, and one or more sensors coupled to the microcontroller; and a peripheral port coupled to the microcontroller, for connection of the interactive personal article to a host computer; wherein the interactive personal article operates as a peripheral device through two-way communication with the host computer via the peripheral port, and wherein input from the one or more sensors is transmitted at the peripheral port, and audio data received at the peripheral port is converted at the sound circuitry and provided as output at the speaker; and direct voice communication is allowed between the host computer and the interactive personal article. 10. The interactive personal article of claim 9 wherein the peripheral port further comprises circuitry to send and receive data over a wireless communication link. 11. The interactive personal article of claim 9 further comprising an I/O interface coupled to the microcontroller and to servo-mechanisms adapted to move portions of the personal article, and to an on-board power supply, and wherein movement commands received at the peripheral port are utilized to activate individual ones of the servo-mechanisms to provide movement of associated portions of the personal article. 12. The interactive personal article of claim 9 further comprising sensors adapted for sensing movement of portions of the personal article or characteristics of doll environment, and wherein signals from the sensors are converted to data signals at the I/O interface and transferred to the peripheral port for transmission. 13. The interactive personal article of claim 10 wherein the wireless communication link is one of an infra-red link, a radio frequency broadcast link, a fiber-optic link, and an inductively-coupled link. 14. The interactive personal article of claim 9 wherein the microcontroller, the audio circuitry, and the peripheral port are all implemented on an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC). 15. The interactive personal article of claim 9 wherein the article is implemented as a doll. 