A cross connect physical layer switching system is integrated into a central office and facilitates delivering data services, such as digital subscriber line (DSL) service, to subscribers over a shared data and voice line. The cross connect physical layer switching system may be placed between a splitter and the shared line to allow a remote test unit to be controllably connected to the shared line to permit testing of the shared line by a competitive local exchange carrier (CLEC). By placing the physical layer switching system in the CO, both the CLEC and the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) have full access to the test head (RTU) and full spectrum testing of the line. This allows test access to continue to be done remotely as in an unshared line environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automatically provisioning shared data and voice service for a telecommunications line, comprising: providing separate voice and data paths; providing a splitter having separate voice and data ports coupled to the separate voice and data paths and a shared port that represents a combination of signals on the separate ports; and providing a cross connect switch that provisions service by controllably connecting the data path to the data port of the splitter and by controllably connecting the shared port of the splitter to a shared line in a first state and a test unit to the shared line in a second state. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the voice path occupies low frequencies of the shared line and the data path occupies high frequencies of the shared line. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein an ILEC maintains the voice path and a CLEC maintains the data path. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the CLEC provides the cross connect switch. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the CLEC further provides the splitter. 6. The method according to claim 3, wherein the ILEC provides the cross connect switch and the splitter. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: monitoring the shared line; and testing shared line when the line is on-hook. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein a controller coupled to the cross connect switch controls the controllable paths. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the controller is coupled to the cross connect switch via a network. 10. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: connecting the shared line to a subscriber through a MDF. 11. A system for automatically provisioning shared data and voice service over a telecommunications line, comprising: a splitter having separate voice and data ports coupled to separate voice and data paths and a shared port that represents a combination of signals on the separate voice and data ports; and a cross connect switch that provisions service by controllably connecting the data path to the data port of the splitter and by controllably connecting the shared port of the splitter to a shared line in a first state and a test unit to the shared line in a second state. 12. The system according to claim 11, further comprising a controller coupled to the cross connect switch that controls the controllable paths. 13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the controller is coupled to the cross connect witch via a network. 14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the voice path occupies low frequencies of the shared line and the data path occupies high frequencies of the shared line. 15. The system according to claim 11, wherein an ILEC maintains the voice path and a CLEC maintains the data path. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the CLEC provides the cross connect switch. 17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the CLEC further provides the splitter. 18. The system according to claim 15, wherein the ILEC provides the cross connect switch and the splitter. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the test unit monitors the shared line on only when the shared line is on-hook. 