A self-feeding apparatus for the disabled and elderly, which comprises: a support base; a holder for an open food container, pivotally connected to the base; an article for scooping food from the container; a system for moving the scooping article from a food scooping position from the container and a food dispensing position at a selected height from the base corresponding to the user's mouth. The system includes a first arm slantingly extending from the base and a second arm, arranged in a substantially horizontal position and slidably mounted on the first arm, the food scooping article being slidably mounted on the second arm. A motor is further provided for sliding the second arm along the first arm and the food scooping article along the second arm and for rotating the food container holder. At least one tank for liquid or semi liquid food and for beverages is placed on the base and a conveyor is provided for transporting the food from the tank to the user's mouth. The apparatus also has a programming and control system that includes a mouth operable control at the outlet end of the conveyor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-feeding apparatus for the disabled and elderly, which comprises: a support base; a holder for an open food container, pivotally connected to the base; an article for scooping food from the container; a system for moving the scooping article from a food scooping position from the container and a food dispensing position at a selected height from the base corresponding to the user's mouth, the system comprising a first arm slantingly extending from the base and a second arm, arranged in a substantially horizontal position and slidably mounted on the first arm, the food scooping article being slidably mounted on the second arm; a motor being further provided for sliding the second arm along the first arm and the food scooping article along the second arm and for rotating the food container holder; at least one tank for liquid or semi-liquid food and for beverages being placed on the base, a conveyor being provided for transporting the liquid or semi-liquid food from the tank to the user's mouth; and a programming and control system that includes a mouth operable control at the outlet end of the conveyor. 2. A self-feeding apparatus for the disabled and elderly, which comprises: a support base; a holder for an open food container, pivotally connected to the base; an article for scooping food from the container; a system for moving the scooping article from a food scooping position from the container and a food dispensing position at a selected height from the base corresponding to the user's mouth, the system comprising a first arm slantingly extending from the base and a second arm, arranged in a substantially horizontal position and slidably mounted on the first arm, the food scooping article being slidably mounted on the second arm; a motor being further provided for sliding the second arm along the first arm and the food scooping article along the second arm and for rotating the food container holder; at least one tank for liquid or semi-liquid food and for beverages being placed on the base, a conveyor being provided for transporting the liquid or semi-liquid food from the tank to the user's mouth; and a programming and control system that includes a mouth operable control at the outlet end of the conveyor, wherein the conveyor for transporting liquid or semi liquid food and beverages includes a pump in communication with the respective tank and a food conveying conduit to the height corresponding to the position of the user's mouth. 3. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the system for moving the food scooping article comprises a first linear guide arranged in the first arm, with which the second arm is integral, and a second linear guide in the second arm to which the food scooping article is integrally connected. 4. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the holder for a open food container comprises a third arm pivotally connected to the base and a bearing motor for either continuously or intermittently rotating a holding plane for the container. 5. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the food scooping article includes a fourth arm extending from the second linear guide and a connection for a cutlery tool locked on the third arm in an axially adjustable position on the arm. 6. The apparatus set forth in claim 5, wherein the connection for the tool is affixed to the fourth arm by an elastic joint. 7. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein a device is provided between the base and the first arm for adjusting the inclination of the first arm. 8. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the first and second linear guides each comprises a carriage supporting the respective motor, such motor being connected to a pinion engaged on a rack mounted on the respective arm. 9. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the mouth operable control is positioned at the free end of the liquid food conduit and comprises a tube and a sleeve coaxial with the tube, engaged within the conduit and selectively contactable with angularly equi-spaced miniswitches for actuating the functions desired. 10. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein a heater is generally embedded in the open food container holder. 11. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, further comprising an alarm device for making a request for assistance. 12. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein a display, mounted to the base, allows visual inspection of the system functions by the user. 13. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the system for moving the food scooping article and for moving the food container holder, on the one hand, and the liquid food conveyor, on the other hand, are each equipped with a respective independent control device and are connected to the mouth operable control and the display, a control unit between the independent control device being provided for determining which of them must be in operation, preventing both of the respective independent control devices from being in operation at the same time. 14. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the support base is formed by two releasably connected parts, the food scooping article and the food container holder being supported by one of the parts, the tank for liquid food and the conveyor for transporting liquid food from the tank to a height corresponding to the position of the user's mouth being supported by the other one of the parts. 15. A self-feeding apparatus for the disabled and elderly, which comprises: a support base; a holder for an open food container, pivotally connected to the base; an article for scooping food from the container; a system for moving the scooping article from a food scooping position from the container and a food dispensing position at a selected height from the base corresponding to the user's mouth, the system comprising a first arm slantingly extending from the base and a second arm, arranged in a substantially horizontal position and slidably mounted on the first arm, the food scooping article being slidably mounted on the second arm; a motor being further provided for sliding the second arm along the first arm and the food scooping article along the second arm and for rotating the food container holder; at least one tank for liquid or semi-liquid food and for beverages being placed on the base, a conveyor being provided for transporting the liquid or semi-liquid food from the tank to the user's mouth; and a programming and control system that includes a mouth operable control at the outlet end of the conveyor, wherein the mouth operable control is positioned at the free end of the liquid food conduit and comprises a tube and a sleeve coaxial with the tube, engaged within the conduit and selectively contactable with angularly equi-spaced miniswitches for actuating the functions desired. 16. A self-feeding apparatus for the disabled and elderly, which comprises: a support base; a holder for an open food container, pivotally connected to the base; an article for scooping food from the container; a system for moving the scooping article from a food scooping position from the container and a food dispensing position at a selected height from the base corresponding to the user's mouth, the system comprising a first arm slantingly extending from the base and a second arm, arranged in a substantially horizontal position and slidably mounted on the first arm, the food scooping article being slidably mounted on the second arm; a motor being further provided for sliding the second arm along the first arm and the food scooping article along the second arm and for rotating the food container holder; at least one tank for liquid or semi-liquid food and for beverages being placed on the base, a conveyor being provided for transporting the liquid or semi-liquid food from the tank to the user's mouth; and a programming and control system that includes a mouth operable control at the outlet end of the conveyor, wherein the inclination of the first arm is adjustable for proper positioning of the spoon in the food dispensing position. 