A movable prosthetic limb includes a drive linkage which is configured to move the prosthetic limb. An ultrasonic drive motor is coupled to the drive linkage and powers the drive linkage. The ultrasonic motor is non-backdrivable and has high torque at low speeds. Specifically, a prosthetic limb uses an ultrasonic motor to drive an elbow joint or prosthetic fingers. A movable prosthetic wrist includes a base configured to be coupled to an amputee. An ultrasonic drive motor is attached to the base, and a hand piece is attached to the ultrasonic drive motor to form a wrist joint. In this configuration, the ultrasonic drive motor directly moves the wrist joint. A harmonic drive can also be used for gear reduction in the wrist joint.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A movable prosthetic limb, comprising: (a) a drive linkage, configured to move the prosthetic limb; and (b) an ultrasonic drive motor, coupled to the drive linkage, configured to power the drive linkage, wherein the ultrasonic motor is non-backdrivable and has high torque at low speeds. 2. A movable prosthetic limb in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: a base, configured to be coupled to an amputee; a distal limb piece attached to the base to form a joint, wherein the ultrasonic drive motor drives the drive linkage and moves the joint. 3. A movable prosthetic limb in accordance with claim 1, wherein the joint is an elbow. 4. A movable prosthetic limb in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a pulley to connect the ultrasonic drive motor to the drive linkage. 5. A movable prosthetic wrist, comprising: (a) a base configured to be coupled to an amputee; (b) an ultrasonic drive motor, attached to the base; (c) an ultrasonic drive motor, coupled to the drive linkage, configured to power the drive linkage, wherein the ultrasonic motor is non-bacddrivable and has high torque at low speeds; and (d) a hand piece attached to the ultrasonic drive motor to form a wrist joint, wherein the ultrasonic drive motor moves the wrist joint. 6. A movable prosthetic limb as in claim 5, wherein ultrasonic drive motor further includes first and second flat surfaces joined by a rounded edge, and the ultrasonic motor attached to the base at the first flat surface. 7. A movable prosthetic limb as in claim 6, further comprising at least one harmonic gear between the hand piece and. the ultrasonic motor to provide a gear reduction. 8. A movable prosthetic limb as in claim 5, wherein the second flat surface of the ultrasonic drive motor is coupled to the hand piece and directly drives the hand piece rotation relative to the base. 9. A movable prosthetic limb as in claim 5, wherein the ultrasonic motor is ring-shaped to allow electrical connections for the hand piece to pass through the ultrasonic motor. 10. A gripping device having at least two opposable digits, comprising: (a) a drive linkage, configured to enable the two opposable digits to grip; and (b) an ultrasonic motor to power the drive linkage; (c) an ultrasonic drive motor, coupled to the drive linkage, configured to power the drive linkage, wherein the ultrasonic motor is non-backdrivable and has high torque at low speeds. 11. A gripping device in accordance with claim 10, wherein the ultrasonic motor is driven by electrical pulses at ultrasonic frequencies and has high torque at low speeds. 12. A gripping device in accordance with claim 10, wherein the ultrasonic motor is non-backdrivable, which allows the two opposable digits to remain stationary unless driven by the ultrasonic motor. 13. A gripping device in accordance with claim 10, further comprising a pulley to connect the ultrasonic motor to the drive linkage. 14. A gripping device in accordance with claim 10, further comprising a two-speed transmission, coupled to the ultrasonic motor, configured to allow the hand to have high speed and low torque while free running, and high torque when loaded. 15. A gripping device in accordance with claim 10, wherein a plurality of ultrasonic motors are coupled together to power the drive linkage. 16. A gripping device in accordance with claim 15, wherein the plurality of ultrasonic motors are sequentially activated to power the drive linkage. 17. A gripping device in a prosthetic hand having at least two opposable digits and a drive linkage configured to enable the two opposable digits to grip, the drive linkage comprising: (a) an ultrasonic motor, having a motor housing with a plurality of stop holes formed therein; (b) a drive transmission coupled to the ultrasonic motor; (c) a spring-loaded pin, releasably mounted adjacent to the ultrasonic motor, configured to lock into the stop holes; and (c) a pin release fastened to the spring-loaded pin, wherein the spring-loaded pin is released from at least one locking hole when the pin release is triggered. 18. A gripping device in accordance with claim 17, further comprising a levered pin release fastened to the spring-loaded pin, wherein the spring-loaded pin is pulled out of at least one stop hole when the levered release is pressed. 19. A gripping device in accordance with claim 17, further comprising a backlock coupled to the drive transmission. 20. A gripping device in accordance with claim 17, further comprising a two-speed transmission coupled to ultrasonic motor, wherein the two-speed transmission provides greater speed under a reduced load and lower speed under an increased load. 21. A gripping device in accordance with claim 20, further comprising: (a) an output gear reduction assembly connected to the two-speed transmission; (b) a sector gear, coupled to the output gear reduction assembly, configured to drive the opposable digits of the prosthetic hand. 22. A gripping device as in claim 21 wherein the output gear reduction assembly further comprises a three toothed gear wherein the sector gear is driven by the three toothed gear. 