A method and system for inspecting a surface of a semiconductor workpiece comprises providing a surface inspection system and using the surface inspection apparatus to cause laser light to impinge upon a test location on the workpiece surface and thereby cause the laser light to emerge from the surface as returned light comprising at least one of reflected light and scatter light; collecting the returned light and generating a signal from the returned and collected light, the signal comprising a signal value representative of a characteristic of the workpiece surface at the test location; providing a plurality of threshold candidates and causing the surface inspection system to select a threshold from among the plurality of threshold candidates; comparing the threshold to the signal value to obtain a difference value; using the difference value to assess the characteristic of the workpiece surface at the test location; and using the surface inspection system to automatically cause the method to be repeated for a plurality of test locations on the workpiece surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for inspecting a surface of a semiconductor workpiece, the method comprising: providing a surface inspection system and using the surface inspection apparatus to cause laser light to impinge upon a test location on the workpiece surface and thereby cause the laser light to emerge from the surface as returned light comprising at least one of reflected light and scattered light; collecting the returned light and generating a signal from the returned and collected light, the signal comprising a signal value representative of a characteristic of the workpiece surface at the test location; providing a plurality of defect threshold candidates, the violation of which indicates the presence of a preexisting defect on the workpiece, receiving with the surface inspection system an input from a user, where the input represents a desired sensitivity for the inspection of the workpiece, causing the surface inspection system to automatically select a threshold from among the plurality of defect threshold candidates based on the input from the user and a plurality of prior signal values from secondary test locations, such that the threshold selected for the test location is different from the threshold selected for a different test location on the workpiece; comparing the threshold to the signal value to obtain a difference value; using the difference value to assess the characteristic of the workpiece surface at the test location; and using the surface inspection system to automatically cause the method to be repeated for a plurality of test locations on the workpiece surface. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the collected and returned light consists of scattered light. 3. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the collected and returned light consists of reflected light. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of threshold candidates comprises an estimate of the signal value. 5. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of threshold candidates comprises a statistical value based upon a plurality of signal values for a corresponding plurality of test locations on the workpiece surface. 6. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of threshold candidates comprises a value that is representative of a minimum size expected for the characteristic that is detectable given the sensitivity of the surface inspection system. 7. A method as recited in claim 6, further comprising using a constant sensitivity value to comprise the plurality of threshold candidates. 8. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of threshold candidates comprises a false alarm-based threshold that is representative of a minimum size expected for the characteristic that is detectable given the sensitivity of the surface inspection system and a desired maximum probability of false identifications of the characteristic in the signal value for the surface inspection system. 9. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of threshold candidates comprises a false alarm-based threshold that is representative of a maximum acceptable probability of false defect detection for the surface inspection system. 10. A system for inspecting a surface of a semiconductor workpiece, the system comprising: a laser source that causes a laser light to impinge upon a test location on the workpiece surface and thereby cause the laser light to emerge from the surface as returned light comprising at least one of reflected light and scattered light; a collection subsystem that collects the returned light and generates a signal from the returned and collected light, the signal comprising a signal value representative of a characteristic of the workpiece surface at the test location; a processing device that, receives an input from a user, where the input represents a desired sensitivity for the inspection of the workpiece, causes the system to automatically select a threshold from among a plurality of defect threshold candidates, the violation of which indicates the presence of a preexisting defect on the workpiece, based on the input from the user and a plurality of prior signal values from secondary test locations, such that the threshold selected for the test location is different from the threshold selected for a different test location on the workpiece, compares the signal value to the threshold to obtain a difference value, that uses the threshold using the difference value to assess the characteristic of the workpiece surface at the test location; and uses the surface inspection system to automatically analyze the workpiece surface at a plurality of test locations. 