A spray coating simulation for a robotic spray gun assembly imports a discretized model of an object geometry. Next, the simulator imports a numerically characterized spray pattern file and a robot motion file having a plurality of motion positions, dwell times and orientations defining a motion path of the spray gun. The individual motion positions within the motion file are read and a determination is made as to which portions of the object geometry are visible at each motion position. Next, a coating thickness at each visible portion of the object geometry is computed, based on the specified spray pattern data, the dwell time and the orientation of the robot motion path, for each motion position. Finally, the total coating thickness over the object geometry is calculated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spray coating simulation for a robotic spray gun assembly comprising the steps of: importing a discretized model of an object geometry to be coated; importing a numerically characterized spray pattern file; importing a robot motion file comprising a plurality of motion positions, dwell times and orientations defining a spray direction of said robot spray gun; reading each motion position within said motion file; determining which portions of said object geometry are visible at each motion position; computing a coating thickness at each visible portion of said object geometry based on said spray pattern data, said dwell time and said orientation of said spray direction for each motion position; and calculating total coating thickness on portions of said object geometry for said complete motion step. 2. A spray coating simulation for a robotic spray gun assembly in accordance with claim 1, wherein said step of importing a discretized model of an object geometry to be coated comprises: creating a three-dimensional model of an object to be coated; enveloping said three-dimensional model with a finite element mesh having a plurality of facets; and enriching said plurality of facets with additional mathematical identifiers. 3. A spray coating simulation for a robotic spray gun assembly in accordance with claim 1, wherein said step of importing spray pattern file comprises: spraying a plurality of test plates to identify respective spray gun pattern distribution characteristics of respective spray patterns; numerically characterizing each respective spray pattern; and generating a spray pattern database comprising said plurality of numerically characterized spray patterns. 4. A spray coating simulation for a robotic spray gun assembly in accordance with claim 1, wherein said step of importing a motion step file comprising a plurality of motion positions, dwell times and orientations, comprises: generating a plurality of robot motion files; translating each respective motion file into x-y-z coordinates of said spray gun, a dwell time at each position, and a vector defining the orientation of said spray gun relative to said object geometry; and generating a robot motion database containing a plurality of motion step files. 5. A spray coating process in accordance with claim 2, wherein said three dimensional model is created using a computer aided design software application. 6. A spray coating process in accordance with claim 2, wherein said additional mathematical identifiers comprise an area, a centroid location, and a facet normal. 7. A spray coating process in accordance with claim 1, wherein said process is in algorithm form loaded within a computer. 8. A spray coating process in accordance with claim 3, wherein said spray patterns are numerically characterized as a series of nth degrees polynomials representing thickness at various slices through said test plate, a cone angle, and the height of characterization. 9. A spray coating process in accordance with claim 2, wherein said step of determining which portions of said object geometry are visible at each motion step comprises: determining which facets fall within the spray pattern by determining which facet centroids are within the spray pattern at the current position; and subjecting these facets to a shadowing test to exclude all facets occluded by facets closer to said spray gun by using the barycentric coordinates of one facet relative to another. 10. A spray in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: using a glancing factor on a convex surface geometry to account for spray coating that stick to a flat surface but scatter from a curved surface. 11. A spray in accordance with claim 1, further comprising: using a rebounding factor on a concave surface geometry to account for spray coating that scatter off of a portion of a curved surface but are captured by another portion. 12. A system for predicting spray-coating thickness in a robotic spray-gun process, comprising: an importer for importing a discretized model of an object geometry; a spray pattern database containing a plurality of numerically characterized spray pattern files; a robot motion database containing a plurality of robot motion files; and a geometric tracking module for computing a spray coating thickness at each position in a respective robot motion file by reading each position, determining which portions of said object geometry are visible at each position, computing a coating thickness at each visible portion of said object geometry based on said spray pattern data, said dwell time and said orientation of said robot motion path for each motion position and calculating total coating thickness for said complete motion step file. 13. A system in accordance with claim 12, wherein a system user selects and imports a motion path file from said robot motion database and a spray pattern file from said spray pattern database for use within said geometric tracking module. 14. A system in accordance with claim 12, wherein said system is utilized in algorithm form in a computer. 15. A system in accordance with claim 12, wherein said algorithm is programmed in C++. 