A mechanism controller for controlling power to motors of a mechanism having several motors, such as a robot. Each motor has a resolver for indicating the motor position. A driver unit is associated with each motor to supply power to the motor. Each driver unit includes a monitoring unit to monitor indications from the resolver of the associated motor. In one embodiment a control unit is connected to the driver units in a series circuit to control power to the motors and to receive the monitored indications from the monitoring units. In a second embodiment, the control unit is connected to the driver units in a ring circuit, rather than in a series circuit. Preferably, each driver unit also includes a memory device, and the control unit can send commands to the driver units and receive data from the driver units in sets equal in number to the number of driver units so that the commands and data do not need to include the addresses of the specific driver units. Alternatively, the commands and data can include a driver unit address so that the commands and data can be individually sent, rather than sent in sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for supplying power to motors of a mechanism having a plurality of motors, said apparatus comprising: a like plurality of driver units, each driver unit adapted to be connected to a uniquely associated one of the motors to supply power thereto, each driver unit having a shift register memory; a control unit; and a communication line interconnecting said control unit and the shift register memories in said plurality of driver units in a ring circuit to permit said control unit and said driver units to communicate with each other by transmitting a group of a like plurality of communications in the form of commands and/or data to be simultaneously stored in respective ones of the shift register memories for execution of the commands by corresponding ones of said driver units. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein: each motor has a resolver; each of said driver units includes a monitoring unit for monitoring indications from the resolver of the associated motor; and said communication line permits said control unit to receive the monitored indications from said monitoring units. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said communication line comprises symmetrical pairs of wires or optical waveguides. 4. A mechanism controller, comprising: a plurality of motor units for controlling a mechanism, each motor unit including a motor for moving a movable part of the mechanism; a like plurality of driver units, each driver unit connected to a uniquely associated one of the motors to supply power thereto, each driver unit having a shift register memory; a control unit; and a communication line interconnecting said control unit and the shift register memories in said plurality of driver units in a ring circuit to permit said control unit and said driver units to communicate with each other by transmitting a group of a like plurality of communications in the form of commands and/or data to be simultaneously stored in respective ones of the shift register memories for execution of the commands by corresponding ones of said driver units. 5. A mechanism controller as claimed in claim 4, wherein: each of said motor units further includes a resolver for indicating the motor position; each of said driver units includes a monitoring unit for monitoring indications from the associated resolver; and said communication line permits said control unit to receive the monitored indications from said monitoring units. 6. A mechanism controller according to claim 4, wherein said communication line comprises symmetrical pairs of wires or optical waveguides. 7. A mechanism controller as claimed in claim 4, wherein said plurality of motor units control a robotic mechanism. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: each of said driver units includes a monitoring unit for monitoring an indication of the motor position of the associated motor; and said control line permits said control unit to receive the monitored indications from said monitoring units. 