A method and an apparatus are disclosed for controlling a motional sequence of a first movable component of a plastic material injection molding machine having a first trajectory spatially overlapping at least partially a second trajectory of a second movable component of the plastic material injection molding machine. Motion of the first movable component is initiated depending on an enabling signal indicative for a motional state of the second movable component. The method comprises the steps of: a) determining a first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) between a first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR) when the enabling signal is generated and a second moment in time (t.sub.6 ; t.sub.3) when the first movable component enters the second trajectory; b) determining a second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) between the first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR) and a third moment in time (t.sub.10 ; t.sub.8) when the second movable component leaves the first trajectory; c) comparing the first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) with the second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) and generating a difference signal therebetween; and d) controlling motion of the first movable component as a function of this comparison of the first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) with the second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) such that the difference signal is smaller than a predetermined minimum tolerance value (T.sub.2 ; T.sub.1).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a motional sequence of a first movable component of a plastic material injection molding machine having a first trajectory spatially overlapping at least partially a second trajectory of a second movable component of said plastic material injection molding machine, wherein motion of said first movable component is initiated depending on an enabling signal indicative for a motional state of said second movable component, the method comprising the steps of: a) determining a first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) between a first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR) when said enabling signal is generated and a second moment in time (t.sub.6 ; t.sub.3) when said first movable component enters said second trajectory; b) determining a second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) between said first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR) and a third moment in time (t.sub.10 ; t.sub.8) when said second movable component leaves said first trajectory; c) comparing said first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) with said second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) and generating a difference signal therebetween; and d) controlling motion of said first movable component as a function of said comparison of said first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) with said second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) such that said difference signal is smaller than a predetermined minimum tolerance value (T.sub.2 ; T.sub.1). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein one of said movable components is a first mold portion executing an opening movement and a closing movement, respectively, relative to a second mold portion, and the other one of said movable components is a gripper being adapted to be moved into and out of, respectively, a gap between said mold portions. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said periods of time (T.sub.WA, T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.RE, T.sub.WEmax) is measured by means of a sensor. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein another one of said periods of time (T.sub.WA, T.sub.WEmax) is stored as a parameter in a control unit of said plastic material injection molding machine. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein at least one of said periods of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.RE) is indicative for a motion of said gripper. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein another one of said periods of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.WEmax) is indicative for a motion of said mold portion. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said periods of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.RE) is set depending on a change in acceleration, a displacement and/or a delay time (t.sub.R) of at least one of said movable components. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said enabling signal is generated when said second movable component has reached a predetermined trigger position (S.sub.FW ; S.sub.FR), said trigger position (S.sub.FW ; S.sub.FR) being set as a function of said first (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) and said second (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) period of time. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) is determined by way of a simulation simulating a failure of a drive associated with said second movable component occurring at said first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR). 10. The method of claim 1, wherein an error signal (F.sub.R ; F.sub.W) is generated upon a failure of a drive associated with said second movable component, and motion of said first movable component is stopped or suppressed upon generation of said error signal (F.sub.R ; F.sub.W). 11. The method of claim 1, wherein an error signal (F.sub.R ; F.sub.W) is generated as soon as a motional sequence of said second movable component is outside a predetermined tolerance band and motion of said first movable component is stopped or suppressed upon generation of said error signal (F.sub.R ; F.sub.W). 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said tolerance band is determined empirically by executing said motional sequence several times under production conditions prior to productively operating said injection molding machine. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said tolerance band is measured under production conditions in predetermined time intervals and is adjusted accordingly. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one period of time (T.sub.WA, T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.RE, T.sub.WEmax) is determined repeatedly during the carrying out of the method. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein a supply voltage for a drive associated with said second movable component is buffered such that a drive for said second movable component may be maintained even upon failure of said supply voltage until said second movable component has left said first trajectory. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said said first movable component is braked down at maximum deceleration rate upon a malfunction within said motional sequence of said second movable component. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said first movable component is braked with a first brake means under normal operational conditions and is braked down with a second brake means at an increased deceleration rate in case of a malfunction. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said frist movable component is first accelerated at a lower rate of acceleration upon receipt of said enabling signal, and is then accelerated at a maximum rate of acceleration upon passing a last possible collision-free stop point (SL) at least until entering into said second trajectory. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the trajectory of one of said movable components is directed essentially vertically, said one movable component entering the trajectory of the other movable component from above, said one movable component being secured from falling down by a stop means in case of a malfunction. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein a common control unit is provided for said first and said second movable component, said motional sequences of said movable components being compared within said control unit and a malfunction signal being generated in case of a malfunction. 21. A plastic material injection molding machine comprising a first and a second movable component, said components having a first and a second trajectory, respectively, overlapping each other at least partially, a control unit for generating an enabling signal for the motion of said first movable component depending on the motional state of said second component, said machine having: a) means for determining a first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) between a first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR) when said enabling signal is generated and a second moment in time (t.sub.6 ; t.sub.3) when said first movable component enters said second trajectory; b) means for determining a second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) between said first moment in time (t.sub.FW ; t.sub.FR) and a third moment in time (t.sub.10 ; t.sub.8) when said second movable component leaves said first trajectory; c) means for comparing said first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) with said second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) and generating a difference signal therebetween; and d) means for controlling motion of said first movable component as a function of said comparison of said first period of time (T.sub.WA ; T.sub.RE) with said second period of time (T.sub.RAmax ; T.sub.WEmax) such that said difference signal is smaller than a predetermined minimum tolerance value (T.sub.2 ; T.sub.1). 22. The machine of claim 21, wherein at least one external brake means is provided for braking down at least one of said movable components in case of a malfunction. 23. The machine of claim 22, wherein said brake means is configured as a friction brake. 24. The machine of claim 22, wherein said brake means is configured as a bumper. 