A semiconductor workpiece holder used in electroplating systems for plating metal layers, such as copper, onto a semiconductor workpiece. The workpiece holder includes electrodes which extend and are partially submerged in a liquid plating bath. The electrodes have a contact face which bears against the workpiece and conducts current therebetween. The submersible portions of the electrodes are partially covered with a dielectric layer or surface and partially covered with a conductive layer or surface. The conductive surface is preferably spaced from the contact face and placed in direct contact with the plating bath to allow diversion of some of the plating current directly between the electrode and plating bath. Associated methods are also described.
Claims We claim: 1. An electrochemical processing apparatus, comprising: a processing container adapted to hold an amount of an electrochemical processing fluid; at least one electrode disposed in the processing container in electrical contact with the electrochemical processing fluid; a workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece and positioned so that at least one surface of the workpiece is in electrical contact with the electrochemical processing fluid; at least one workpiece electrode forming an electrically conductive path for conducting processing power to a surface of a workpiece disposed on the workpiece support, said at least one workpiece electrode comprising a submersible portion which is shaped and arranged to be submerged within the electrochemical processing fluid during an electrochemical process, the at least one workpiece electrode also including a contact portion adapted to engage a surface of the workpiece to conduct processing power thereto, the contact portion approximately defining a boundary limit; the at least one workpiece electrode further comprising one or more non-thieving sections having a non-conductive material at the external surface thereof, and one or more thieving sections distal said contact portion, the one or more thieving sections including one or more conductive surfaces that extend beyond the boundary limit in the direction of the electrode disposed in the processing container. 2. An electrochemical processing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said workpiece electrode is in the form of a finger contact and wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprise over 25 percent of the submersible portion of said finger contact. 3. An electrochemical processing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprise between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said at least one workpiece electrode. 4. An electrochemical processing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said submersible portion of said at least one workpiece electrode comprises a non-thieving section immediately adjacent the contact portion. 5. An electrochemical processing apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said submersible portion of said at least one workpiece electrode comprises: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said electrochemical processing apparatus is adapted to electroplating a workpiece. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said processing fluid is an electroplating bath. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said non-thieving section is immediately adjacent said contact portion. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said apparatus is adapted to electrochemically process a semiconductor wafer. 10. An apparatus for electrochemically processing a workpiece comprising: a processing base for holding an amount of electrochemical processing fluid; a first electrode disposed in the processing base for electrical contact with the processing fluid; a workpiece support mounted to support a workpiece with respect to the processing base so that the workpiece is positioned with at least one surface thereof in contact with the processing fluid of the processing base; a second electrode adapted to provide an electrically conductive path between a workpiece held by the workpiece support and a source of electrical processing power, said at least one electrode comprising a submersible portion arranged to extend from the workpiece support and to be submerged within the processing fluid of the processing base during electrochemical processing of the workpiece, the second electrode also including a contact portion adapted to engage a surface of the workpiece to conduct processing power thereto, the contact portion and the first electrode defining a processing region therebetween; means for partially covering said second electrode along said submersible portion to provide one or more non-thieving sections proximate to said contact portion and at least one thieving section distal to said contact portion, said means for partially covering said second electrode so that the at least one thieving section extends into the processing region. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprise over 25 percent of the submersible portion of said second electrode. 12. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprise between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said second electrode. 13. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said submersible portion of said second electrode comprises one of said non-thieving sections immediately adjacent the contact portion. 14. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said submersible portion of said second electrode comprises: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 15. An apparatus for electroplating a semiconductor wafer, comprising: a processing base adapted to hold an amount of electroplating fluid; an anode disposed in the processing base in electrical contact with the electroplating fluid; a workpiece support mounted with respect to the processing base to place at least one surface of the semiconductor wafer in contact with the electroplating fluid of the processing base; at least one cathode contact electrode adapted to provide an electrically conductive path for conducting processing power to the semiconductor wafer, said at least one cathode contact electrode comprising a submersible portion which extends from the workpiece support and terminates at a contact portion that is adapted to electrically engage a surface of the semiconductor wafer; a dielectric material partially covering said at least one cathode contact electrode along said submersible portion to divide said submersible portion into one or more non-thieving sections proximate to said contact portion and at least one thieving section distal to said contact portion, said at least one thieving section extending into a region at or beyond a plane formed by a surface of the semiconductor wafer and in a direction toward the anode. 16. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprise over 25 percent of the submersible portion of said at least one cathode contact electrode. 17. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprise between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said at least one cathode contact electrode. 18. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said submersible portion of said at least one cathode contact electrode comprises a non-thieving section immediately adjacent the contact portion. 19. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said submersible portion of said at least one cathode contact electrode includes: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 20. An apparatus for electrochemically processing a generally planar surface of a workpiece comprising: a processing base adapted to hold an amount of an electrochemical processing fluid therein; a first electrode disposed in the processing base for electrical contact with the electrochemical processing fluid; a workpiece support mounted with respect to the processing base to support a workpiece so that at least the generally planar surface of the workpiece is placed in contact with the electrochemical processing fluid during electrochemical processing of the workpiece; a second electrode adapted to provide an electrically conductive path between a source of processing power and a workpiece held by the workpiece support, said second electrode comprising a submersible portion which extends from the workpiece support for submersion within the electrochemical processing fluid, said second electrode also including a contact portion adapted to engage a surface of the workpiece to conduct processing power thereto; means for conducting portions of the processing power supplied to or from the second electrode directly to the processing fluid along one or more thieving sections of the second electrode, the one or more thieving sections being adjacent to one or more dielectric non-thieving sections and being spaced distal from said contact portion and extending to a position at or beyond a plane formed by the generally planar surface of a workpiece under process in a direction toward the first electrode. 21. The apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said means for conducting comprises one or more non-thieving sections provided over 25 percent of the submersible portion of said second electrode. 22. The apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said means for conducting comprises one or more non-thieving sections which provide between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said second electrode. 23. The apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said submersible portion comprises at least one non-thieving section immediately adjacent the contact portion. 24. The apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said submersible portion includes: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 25. A method for electrochemically processing a workpiece, comprising: contacting a surface of the workpiece with a first electrode at a contact face forming a part of the electrode; submersing a portion of the first electrode into a processing fluid along with a surface of the workpiece that is to be processed; wetting the surface of the workpiece with the processing fluid; applying processing power between the first electrode and a second electrode disposed in electrical contact with the processing fluid, to thereby generate an electrical current through the processing fluid whereby an electrochemical reaction occurs upon the wetted surface of the workpiece; diverting a portion of the electrical current to at least one thieving section of the first electrode which is distal from said contact face and adjacent to at least one dielectric non-thieving section, and that extends to a position at or beyond a plane formed by the wetted surface of the workpiece under process in a direction toward the first electrode. 26. A method for electroplating a material onto the surface of a workpiece, comprising: contacting a surface of the workpiece with a cathode electrode at a contact face forming a part of the cathode electrode; submersing a portion of the cathode electrode into an electroplating bath; wetting a surface of the workpiece with the electroplating bath; providing a flow of electrical current between the cathode electrode and an anode in contact with the electroplating bath to thereby cause electroplating to occur upon the wetted surface of the workpiece; diverting a portion of the electrical current to at least one thieving section of the cathode electrode which is distal from said contact face and adjacent to a dielectric non-thieving section, the at least one thieving section including a conductive surface at or extending beyond the contact face in a direction toward the anode; and limiting the flow of electrical current from the electroplating solution to sections of the cathode electrode proximate the contact face by covering the cathode electrode with a dielectric material proximate the contact portion thereof, thereby forming said non-thieving section. 27. An apparatus for electrochemically processing a generally planar surface of a workpiece comprising: a processing base adapted to hold an amount of an electrochemical processing fluid therein; a first electrode disposed in the processing base for electrical contact with the electrochemical processing fluid; a second electrode adapted to provide an electrically conductive path between a source of processing power and the generally planar surface of a workpiece that is to be electrochemically processed, said second electrode comprising a submersible portion that is positioned to be submerged within the electrochemical processing fluid during processing of the workpiece, said submersible portion including a contact portion adapted to engage a surface of the workpiece to conduct processing power thereto, a dielectric section, one or more thieving sections distal the contact portion and adapted to divert electrical current away from the contact portion, the one or more thieving sections extending to a position at or beyond a plane formed by the generally planar surface of the workpiece in a direction toward the first electrode, the dielectric section being disposed along the second electrode between the contact portion and one of the one or more thieving sections. 28. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said second electrode is in the form of a finger contact and wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprises over 25 percent of the submersible portion of the finger contact. 29. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprises between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said second electrode. 30. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said submersible portion of said second electrode comprises: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 31. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein at least one of the one or more thieving sections comprises a conductive surface having a face that is exposed to the first electrode. 32. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein at least one of the one or more thieving sections comprises a conductive surface having a face that is shielded from direct exposure to the first electrode by a dielectric covering. 33. An apparatus for electroplating a material onto the surface of a workpiece, comprising: a processing container adapted to hold an amount of an electroplating fluid, the electroplating fluid terminating at a fluid surface; at least one anode disposed in electrical contact with the electroplating fluid; at least one cathode contact electrode adapted to provide an electrically conductive path between a source of electroplating power and a surface of a workpiece that is to be electroplated, the cathode contact electrode including a contact portion adapted to engage a surface of the workpiece to conduct electroplating power thereto, the contact portion approximately defining a submersion boundary plane at or slightly below the fluid surface of the electroplating fluid, the at least one anode lying in a plane that is below and generally parallel to the submersion boundary plane, the cathode contact electrode further comprising one or more dielectric sections, and one or more thieving sections formed by conductive surfaces of the cathode contact electrode that are distal said contact portion and at or below the submersion boundary plane, at least one of the one or more dielectric sections being disposed along the cathode contact electrode between the contact portion and at least one of the one or more thieving sections. 34. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said cathode contact electrode is in the form of a finger contact and wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprises over 25 percent of the submersible portion of the finger contact. 35. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprises between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said cathode contact electrode. 36. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein said submersible portion of said cathode contact electrode comprises: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 37. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein at least one of the one or more thieving sections comprises a conductive surface that faces the anode. 38. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein at least one of the one or more thieving sections comprises a conductive surface having a face that is shielded from direct exposure to the anode by a dielectric covering. 39. An apparatus for electrochemically processing a workpiece, comprising: a processing container adapted to hold an amount of an electrochemical processing fluid; at least one counter-electrode disposed in electrical contact with the electrochemical processing fluid; at least one workpiece contact electrode adapted to provide an electrically conductive path between a source of electrical processing power and a surface of a workpiece that is to be processed, said at least one workpiece contact electrode comprising a submersible portion which is arranged to be submerged within the electrochemical processing fluid during an electrochemical process, the workpiece contact electrode also including a contact portion adapted to engage a surface of the workpiece to conduct electrical power thereto, the workpiece contact electrode further comprising one or more dielectric sections, and one or more thieving sections formed by conductive surfaces of the workpiece contact electrode, at least one of the thieving sections being distal said contact portion and spaced from the counter-electrode at a distance that is the same or less than the distance between the contact portion and the counter-electrode, at least one of the one or more dielectric sections being disposed along the workpiece contact electrode between the contact portion and at least one of the one or more thieving sections. 40. The apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said workpiece contact electrode is in the form of a finger contact and wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprises over 25 percent of the submersible portion of the finger contact. 41. The apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said one or more non-thieving sections comprises between about 25 percent to about 75 percent of the submersible portion of said workpiece contact electrode. 42. The apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said submersible portion of said workpiece contact electrode comprises: a first non-thieving section adjacent to the contact portion; a first thieving section adjacent to said first non-thieving section; a second non-thieving section adjacent to said first thieving section and distal the first non-thieving section. 43. The apparatus according to claim 39 wherein at least one of the one or more thieving sections comprises a conductive surface that faces the counter-electrode. 44. The apparatus according to claim 39 wherein at least one of the one or more thieving sections comprises a conductive surface having a face that is shielded from direct exposure to the counter-electrode by a dielectric covering. 