Image tracking systems, and corresponding methods, are described. In some embodiments, conventional imaging components are placed on a platform having wheels, thereby providing a mechanism for imaging a moving subject. In other embodiments, conventional imaging components are situated on non-parallel rails, and moved along those rails, thereby providing a mechanism for imaging an anatomical region of a subject as that region moves in two dimensions. For yet other embodiments, image recognition and tracking approaches are provided to track the movement of a non-stationary anatomical region. The tracking of the non-stationary anatomical region permits imaging of a moving anatomy. For some embodiments, the anatomy moves within its normal range of motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An image tracking system, comprising: a first bracket; a second bracket; a source mounted to the first bracket; a detector mounted to the second bracket, the source and the detector, in combination, being configured to define a field-of-view, wherein the first bracket and the second bracket are reconfigurable in at least two axes of movement to reposition the detector and the source; the source and the detector utilized to obtain an image of an anatomical region of interest located within the defined field-of-view; and a motor-driven portable ground carriage that includes carriage control circuitry configured to automatically control repositioning of the ground carriage responsive to movement of the anatomical region of interest; wherein the first bracket and the second bracket are mounted to the portable ground carriage. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: image processing logic configured to process the image; and image identification logic configured to identify a predefined anatomical feature within the anatomical region of interest. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising: image tracking circuitry configured to track movement associated with the predefined anatomical feature; and bracket control circuitry configured to control reconfiguring of the first bracket and movement of the source, the movement of the source being correlated to the movement of the predefined anatomical feature within the defined field-of-view. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the source is pivotally mounted to the first bracket. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the source is translationally mounted to the first bracket. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector comprises a solid-state detector array. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector comprises an imageintensifier. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector is translationally mounted to the second bracket. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein: the first bracket is reconfigurable to allow vertical and horizontal movement of the source; the second bracket is reconfigurable to allow vertical and horizontal movement of the detector; and, the source and the detector are configured to move substantially synchronously with each other. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a source motor operatively coupled to the source, the source motor is configured to control the movement of the source; and a detector motor operatively coupled to the detector, the detector motor is configured to control the movement of the detector; and wherein the source motor and the detector motor are configured to move substantially synchronously with each other. 11. An image tracking system, comprising: a first bracket including a first guide and a second guide, where the first guide includes a range of motion non-parallel to a range of motion of the second guide; a second bracket including a third guide and a fourth guide, where the third guide includes a range of motion non-parallel to a range of motion of the fourth guide; a source mounted to at least one of the guides of the first bracket, the first guide and the second guide cooperating with each other to allow at least two-dimensional translational motion of the source; a detector mounted to at least of the guides or the second bracket, the third guide and the fourth guide cooperating with each other to allow at least two-dimensional translational motion of the detector; a field-of-view position controller for controlling movement of the source and the detector responsive to dynamic motion of an anatomical region of interest. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a motor-driven portable ground carriage that includes carriage control circuitry configured to automatically control repositioning of the ground carriage responsive to movement of the anatomical region of interest; wherein the first bracket and the second bracket are mounted to the portable ground carriage. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the source includes an x-ray fluoroscopic source. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the detector includes an x-ray fluoroscopic source. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the first guide includes a vertical rail. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the second guide includes a horizontal rail. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the third guide includes a vertical rail. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the fourth guide includes a horizontal rail. 19. The system of claim 11, wherein the two-dimensional translational motion comprises: motion in at least two axes of a three-dimensional coordinate system including vertical motion in a Y-axis, lateral motion in a X-axis, and depthwise motion in a Z-axis. 20. An imaging system, comprising: a first bracket; a second bracket; a source mounted to the first bracket, the source configured to travel vertically along the first bracket, the source further configured to travel horizontally along the first bracket; a detector mounted to the second bracket, the detector configured to travel vertically along the second bracket, the detector further configured to travel horizontally along the second bracket, the source and the detector configured to move substantially synchronously with each other; an image acquisition circuit for dynamically acquiring images over time; an image identifying circuit for identifying a region of interest within the acquired images; an image tracking controller for tracking the region of interest over time; a source controller for controlling the movement of the source, the source controller configured to move the source as a function of the tracked region of interest over time; and a detector controller for controlling the movement of the detector, the detector controller configured to move the detector as a function of movement of the tracked region of interest over time. 21. An image tracking system, comprising: a source configured to emit radiation; a detector located opposite the source to include a field of view therebetween, the detector configured to detect emitted radiation from the source; image circuitry operatively coupled to the detector, the image circuitry using outputs from the detector to generate images of an anatomical region of interest responsive to the anatomical region of interest dynamically occupying at least a portion of the field-of-view; and control circuitry operative to automatically control repositioning of the detector and the source to substantially preserve the anatomical region of interest within the field-of-view as the anatomical region of interest is repositioned under load within the field-of-view. 22. A method of generating images of an anatomical region of interest, the method comprising: configuring a radiation source and a radiation detector to establish a field of view between the radiation source and the radiation detector for an anatomical region of interest; repositioning at least one of the radiation source and the radiation detector to maintain the anatomical region of interest within the field of view while the anatomical region of interest is moving through at least a portion of its range of motion under loaded conditions; emitting radiation from the radiation source at least substantially simultaneously with the act of repositioning at least one of the radiation source and the radiation detector; detecting at least a portion of the radiation emitted from the radiation source as the anatomical region of interest is moved through at least a portion of its range of motion under loaded conditions; generating detection data in response to the act of detecting the radiation emitted from the radiation source while the anatomical region of interest is moved through at least a portion of its range of motion under loaded conditions; and dynamically generating images of the anatomical region of interest based upon the detection data generated. 23. A method of initializing an image tracking system, the method comprising: acquiring an initial image of an anatomical feature; manipulating the initial image to generate identification data that identifies an anatomical region of interest; processing the identification data to establish processed identification data for use by an image recognition algorithm; and initializing a controller operative to reposition at least one of a radiation source and a radiation detector, based upon the processed identification data and a changing position of the anatomical feature during loaded dynamic movement of the anatomical feature, where the controller includes the image recognition algorithm. 24. The system of claim 2, further comprising: image tracking logic configured to track movement associated with the predefined anatomical feature; and control circuitry configured to control reconfiguring of the second bracket and movement of the detector, where movement of the detector is correlated to movement of the predefined anatomical feature. 25. The system of claim 12, further comprising a combination controller including the field-of-view position controller and the carriage control circuitry. 26. A method of generating images of an anatomical region of interest, the method comprising: configuring a radiation source and a radiation detector to establish a field of view therebetween for an anatomical region of interest; emitting radiation from the radiation source while the anatomical feature of interest is dynamically repositioned under load within the field of view; detecting at least a portion of the radiation emitted from the radiation source while the anatomical feature of interest is dynamically repositioned under load within the field of view, where the detected emitted radiation comprises detection data; repositioning the radiation source and the radiation detector to maintain the anatomical region of interest within the field of view while the anatomical region of interest is dynamically repositioned under load; and generating images of the anatomical region of interest using the detection data. 