A multilayered suspension having a slider end and a termination end, the suspension being suitable for use in an information storage system slider-suspension assembly is provided. The suspension comprises a conductive lead structure having at least one conductor line contained in a patterned conductive layer formed over one or more layers. The conductive lead structure is suitable on the slider end for connection to transducer leads of a slider, and on the termination end for connection to arm-electronics termination pads. The suspension further comprises a fixture, formed from one or more layers, being substantially in the same plane as the termination end of the conductive lead structure and having one or more anchor tabs laminated to a layer of the conductive lead structure. The fixture is suitable for aligning the conductor lines to the termination pads by rotating the termination end of the conductive lead structure in the plane of the termination end.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A single-piece multilayered suspension having a slider end and a termination end, said single-piece multilayered suspension being suitable for use in an information storage system slider suspension assembly, said single-piece multilayered suspension comprising: a single body formed of a plurality of laminated layers, said plurality of laminated layers including: a base layer; a patterned conductive layer formed over said base layer, said patterned conductive layer having a pattern of voids therein that define a conductive lead structure including at least one conductive line, said conductive lead structure being suitable on the slider end for connection to transducer leads of a slider, wherein at said termination end, a portion of said conductive lead structure extends beyond said base layer for connection to arm-electronics termination pads; and a polyimide insulating layer disposed between said base layer and said patterned conductive layer, wherein only said polyimide insulating layer underlies said portion of said conductive lead structure extending beyond said base layer. 2. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 1, wherein said base layer is stainless steel and said patterned conductive layer is copper. 3. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 1, wherein said conductive lead structure has a bend region at which said conductive lead structure is bent substantially perpendicular to a bend axis extending between said slider end and said termination end. 4. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 3, wherein said bend region is located in said portion of said conductive lead structure extending beyond said base layer. 5. An actuator arm assembly for an information storage system, said actuator arm assembly comprising an actuator arm having at least one arm-electronics termination pad and a single-piece multilayered suspension according to claim 1, said single-piece multilayered suspension being mechanically attached to said actuator arm, wherein said at least one conductive line is terminated at said at least one arm-electronics termination pad. 6. The actuator arm assembly of claim 5, wherein said conductive lead structure has a bend region at which said conductive lead structure is bent substantially perpendicular to a bend axis extending between said slider end and said termination end. 7. The actuator arm assembly of claim 6, wherein said bend region is located in said portion of said conductive lead structure extending beyond said base layer. 8. The actuator arm assembly of claim 5, said actuator arm having a first end proximate said slider end of said multilayered suspension and a second end distal said slider end of said multilayered suspension, said actuator arm being mechanically attached to said multilayered suspension at one or more attachment points, wherein an attachment point among said one or more attachment points that is nearest said second end of said actuator arm is intermediate said slider end of said multilayered suspension and an end of said conductive lead structure proximate said termination end. 9. An information storage system, comprising: a storage medium having a plurality of tracks for recording data; a slider having a read and/or write transducer formed therein and transducer leads; an actuator arm having at least one arm-electronics termination pad; and a single-piece multilayered suspension according to claim 1 that is mechanically attached to said actuator arm, said suspension maintaining said transducer in a closely spaced position relative to said storage medium, wherein said conductive lead structure is connected to said transducer leads at said slider end and to said at least one arm-electronics termination pad at said termination end. 10. The information storage system of claim 9, wherein said conductive lead structure has a bend region at which said conductive lead structure is bent substantially perpendicular to a bend axis extending between said slider end and said termination end. 11. The information storage system of claim 10, wherein said bend region is located in said portion of said conductive lead structure extending beyond said base layer. 12. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 1, wherein said plurality of laminated layers includes at most three layers. 13. A single-piece multilayered suspension having a slider end, a termination end, and one or more attachment points for attachment to an actuator arm, said single-piece multilayered suspension being suitable for use in an information storage system slider suspension assembly, said single-piece multilayered suspension comprising: a single body formed of a plurality of layers laminated together, said plurality of layers including: a base layer; and a patterned conductive layer formed over said base layer, said patterned conductive layer having a pattern of voids therein that define a conductive lead structure including at least one conductive line, said conductive lead structure being suitable on the slider end for connection to transducer leads of a slider, wherein said conductive lead structure extends from said slider end, past an attachment point among said one or more attachment points that is nearest said termination end and toward said termination end wherein a portion of said conductive lead structure extending toward said termination end extends beyond said base layer and said plurality of layers further includes a polyimide insulating layer disposed between said base layer and said patterned conductive layer, wherein only said polyimide insulating layer underlies said portion of said conductive lead structure extending beyond said base layer. 14. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 13, wherein said base layer is stainless steel and said patterned conductive layer is copper. 15. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 13, wherein said conductive lead structure has a bend region at which said conductive lead structure is bent substantially perpendicular to a bend axis extending between said slider end and said termination end. 16. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 15, wherein said attachment point nearest said termination end is intermediate said bend region and said slider end. 17. An actuator arm assembly for an information storage system, said actuator arm assembly comprising an actuator arm having at least one arm-electronics termination pad and a single-piece multilayered suspension according to claim 13, said single-piece multilayered suspension being mechanically attached to said actuator arm at said one or more attachment points, wherein said at least one conductive line is terminated at said at least one arm-electronics termination pad. 18. The actuator arm assembly of claim 17, wherein said conductive lead structure has a bend region at which said conductive lead structure is bent a substantially perpendicular to a bend axis extending between said slider end and said termination end. 19. The actuator arm assembly of claim 18, wherein said attachment point nearest said termination end is intermediate said bend region and said slider end. 20. An information storage system, comprising: a storage medium having a plurality of tracks for recording data; a slider having a read and/or write transducer formed therein and transducer leads; an actuator arm having at least one arm-electronics termination pad; and a single-piece multilayered suspension according to claim 16 that is mechanically attached to said actuator arm at said one or more attachment points, said single-piece multilayered suspension maintaining said transducer in a closely spaced position relative to said storage medium, wherein said conductive lead structure is connected to said transducer leads at said slider end and to said at least one arm-electronics termination pad at said termination end. 21. The single-piece multilayered suspension of claim 13, wherein said plurality of layers includes at most three layers. 