A reactor for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece is set forth. The reactor comprises a reactor bowl including an electroplating solution disposed therein and an anode disposed in the reactor bowl in contact with the electroplating solution. A contact assembly is spaced from the anode within the reactor bowl. The contact assembly includes a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece to provide electroplating power to the surface of the workpiece. The contacts execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith. The contact assembly also including a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts. The barrier includes a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to assist in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. In one embodiment, the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures while in another embodiment the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. A flow path may be provided in the contact assembly for providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. The purging gas may be used to assist in the formation of the barrier of the contact assembly. A combined electroplating/electroless plating tool and method are also set forth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A contact assembly for providing electrical contact between a workpiece and a source of electrical power, the contact assembly comprising: a body member having an inner wall defining an open region sized larger than the workpiece; a contact system having a plurality of cantilevered spring contacts extending at least generally radially inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location in the open region; and a barrier member having a radially transverse portion projecting inwardly from the body and into the open region, the barrier having a lip radially inwardly from the spring contacts defining a processing aperture sized smaller than the workpiece, wherein the lip is configured to contact the workpiece. 2. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contact are in the form of discrete flexure contacts. 3. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein the flexure contacts extend radially inward toward the center. 4. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the spring contacts extend inward at an angle with respect to a radius of the processing aperture. 5. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein some of the flexure contacts have a greater length than the remaining flexure contacts. 6. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein at least some of the plurality of flexure contacts each include an upstanding portion, a transverse portion, a vertical portion, and a wafer contact portion. 7. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contacts are adapted for executing a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement with the contacts. 8. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a contact support member for captivating at least a portion of the plurality of contacts within a channel defined between the contact support member and the outer body member, the contact support member being disposed radially interior of the outer body member. 9. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 8 wherein the contact support member includes a groove, and the contact assembly further comprises a wedge member disposed to engage said groove along with the discrete flexures to thereby secure the contacts with the contact support member. 10. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 9 wherein at least a portion of the wedge member assists in stiffening the flexing of the contacts as a workpiece is brought into engagement with the contact assembly. 11. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contacts are comprised of platinized titanium. 12. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the outer body is comprised of a dielectric material. 13. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of flexure contacts are integrated with a corresponding common ring. 14. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. 15. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the barrier member comprises a lip formed integrally with the outer body member adapted for engaging the surface of the workpiece. 16. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the barrier member comprises an elastomeric seal member supported by the outer body member, the elastomeric seal member adapted for engaging the surface of the workpiece. 17. The contact assembly of claim 1 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring and the cantilevered spring contacts of the contact system comprise fingers integral with the conductive ring that project radially inwardly along a radius of the open region and upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the open region of the body. 18. The contact assembly of claim 1 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring and the cantilevered spring contacts of the contact system comprise fingers integral with the conductive ring that project generally radially inwardly from the conductive ring at an angle with respect to a radius of the open region and upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the open region of the body. 19. The contact assembly of claim 1 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring and the cantilevered spring contacts of the contact system comprise fingers integral with the conductive ring that project radially inwardly from the conductive ring along a radius of the open region. 20. The contact assembly of claim 1 wherein the cantilevered spring contacts of the contact system comprise individual flexure members attached to the body by a wedge, the flexure members having a cantilevered finger projecting radially inwardly from the body to an interior portion of the open region. 21. A contact assembly for providing electrical contact between a workpiece and a source of electrical power in electroplating applications, the contact assembly comprising: a conductive mount member having a generally annular shape with an opening sized to receive the workpiece, the mount member being the primary support structure of the contact assembly; a dielectric outerbody attached to the mount member, the outerbody having a barrier section projecting inwardly with respect to the mount member to an interior lip sized to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece; and a plurality of flexing contact members electrically coupled to the mount member, the flexing contact members having a first end at least proximate to the mount member and a second end projecting inwardly from the first end to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the mount member, the first end of the contact members defining contact points that engage the workpiece and elastically couple the workpiece to the mount member. 22. A contact assembly for providing electrical contact between a workpiece and a source of electrical power in electroplating applications, the contact assembly comprising: a primary support structure, the primary support structure being a conductive ring having an outer annular surface, an inner annular surface, a top surface and a bottom surface, the inner annular surface being sized to allow the workpiece to pass through the primary support structure; an outerbody attached to the primary support structure, the outerbody having an annular barrier section projecting radially inwardly with respect to the inner annular surface of the primary support structure to an interior lip sized to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece; and a contact system having a plurality of contact members electrically coupled to the primary support structure, the contact members having a first end at least proximate to the inner annular surface of the primary support structure and a second end defining a contact point to electrically engage the workpiece, the first ends of the contact members being generally stationary relative to the primary support structure and the second ends of the contact members projecting inwardly from the first ends to locations between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner annular surface. 23. The contact assembly of claim 22 wherein the plurality of contact members comprises individual flexure members spaced apart from one another around the primary support structure, each flexure member having an upstanding portion contacting the support structure and a transverse portion projecting inwardly from the upstanding portion to extend inwardly with respect to the inner annular surface of the primary support member. 24. The contact assembly of claim 22 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive arcuate member and the contact members comprise a plurality of generally flat fingers projecting inwardly from the conductive arcuate member, the conductive arcuate member being coupled to the primary support structure so that the fingers extend generally radially inwardly with respect to the inner annular surface of the primary support structure upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the bottom surface of the primary support structure. 25. A contact assembly for providing electrical contact between a workpiece and a source of electrical power, the contact assembly comprising: a primary support structure having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectric workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller than the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact system attached to the primary support structure, the contact system having plurality of contact members that have a base end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall, wherein the contact members flex about the base ends toward the barrier section when the workpiece engages the contact ends and moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 26. The contact assembly of claim 25 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 27. The contact assembly of claim 25 wherein the contact system further comprises an annular conductive ring having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of cantilevered tabs projecting inwardly from the conductive ring toward the opening. 28. The contact assembly of claim 25 wherein the contact system comprises a plurality of individual flexure members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 29. A contact assembly for providing electrical contact between a workpiece and a source of electrical power in electroplating applications, the contact assembly comprising: a primary support structure having an inner wall defining an open region sized larger than the workpiece; and a contact system coupled to the primary support structure, the contact system having a plurality of cantilevered spring contacts extending at least generally radially inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location in the open region, the cantilevered spring contacts having a pivoting end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end in the open region, wherein the cantilevered spring contacts flex as a workpiece engages the contact ends and moves through the open region causing the contact ends to move laterally across a front surface of the workpiece. 30. The contact assembly of claim 29 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project radially inwardly from the conductive ring along a radius of the open region. 31. The contact assembly of claim 29 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project generally radially inwardly from the conductive ring at an angle with respect to a radius of the open region. 32. The contact assembly of claim 29 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project radially inwardly from the conductive ring along a radius of the open region and upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the open region. 33. The contact assembly of claim 29 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project generally radially inwardly from the conductive ring at an angle with respect to a radius of the open region and upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the open region. 34. The contact assembly of claim 29, further comprising a barrier having a transverse section projecting radially inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip radially inward of the contact ends of the contact members, wherein the lip of the barrier is configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece. 35. The contact assembly of claim 34 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a flexible dielectric outer-body having a first section attached to the primary support structure and a second section extending transverse to the first section, the second section of the dielectric outer-body defining the transverse section of the barrier. 36. The contact assembly of claim 35 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project radially inwardly from the conductive ring along a radius of the open region. 37. The contact assembly of claim 35 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project generally radially inwardly from the conductive ring at an angle with respect to a radius of the open region. 38. The contact assembly of claim 35 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project radially inwardly from the conductive ring along a radius of the open region and upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the open region. 39. The contact assembly of claim 35 wherein the contact system further comprises a conductive ring, and wherein the pivoting ends of the spring contacts are integral with the conductive ring and the contact ends of the spring contacts project generally radially inwardly from the conductive ring at an angle with respect to a radius of the open region and upwardly at an acute angle with respect to a plane defined by the open region. 