Shape of a long reach device, e.g., a welding torch, suitable for use within a portion of an object along a joint curve, e.g., a weld joint, is determined by dissecting the long reach device into a discrete number of portions, identifying ranges of movement between each of the portions, and discretizing the ranges of movement into a predetermined number of intervals. A total number of possible shapes is determined based on the total portions of the long reach device having the first movement range discretized into a predetermined number of intervals. A representation of the long reach device having one of the possible shapes is compared with the representation of the portion of the object. A possible shape is deemed acceptable if less than a predetermined portion of the representation of the long reach device interferes with the representation
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining and physically replicating a shape for a long reach device having a length suitable for use within a portion of an object along a joint curve, said method comprising: (a) dissecting said long reach device into number of portions L; (b) assigning a first degree of freedom having a first movement range between each of said L portions; (c) discretizing said first movement range into a predetermined number of intervals; (d) determining a total number of shapes M based on said L portions having said first movement range; (e) generating a representation of the joint curve including the portion of the object; (f) comparing a representation of said long reach device having one of said M shapes with said representation of the portion of the object, wherein said one of said M shapes is deemed acceptable if less than a predetermined portion of said representation of said long reach device interferes with said representation of the portion of the object; and (g) physically replicating the shape determined by steps (a)-(f). 2. The method as in claim 1, wherein if said one of said M shapes is not deemed acceptable, then further comprising; (h) comparing a representation of said long reach device having another of said M shapes with said representation of the portion of the object, wherein said another one of said M shapes is deemed acceptable if less than said predetermined portion of said representation of said long reach device having said another of said M shapes interferes with said representation of the portion of the object, and wherein said physical replication is of the shape determined by steps (a)-(f) and (h). 3. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: (h) assigning a second degree of freedom having a second movement range between each of said L portions of said long reach device; and (i) discretizing said second movement range into a predetermined number of intervals, wherein said physical replication is of the shape determined by steps (a)-(f), (h), and (i). 4. The method as in claim 1, wherein said first degree of freedom is in an azimuth direction and said first movement range is discretized into NA intervals and said second degree of freedom is in an elevation direction and said second movement range is discretized into NE intervals. 5. The method as in claim 4, wherein said total number of shapes M is determined by the equation: 6. The method as in claim 1, wherein said representation of said long reach device includes a representation of a filler wire. 7. A welding system comprising: a robot having a long reach device depending from a portion of said robot, said long reach device comprising a welding torch including a welding tip; a software system comprising a path planning program and a torch shape program, said torch shape program being configured to determine a shape of said torch according to steps (a)-(f) of claim 1; and a computer interfacing said robot for controlling said robot, said computer being configured to employ said software system, including running said path planning program, wherein said torch has a shape determined by said computer employing said torch shape program. 8. The welding system as in claim 7, wherein said robot has up to 6 degrees of freedom. 9. The welding system as in claim 7, further comprising: a positioner for supporting and positioning said object, said computer interfacing with said positioner for controlling said positioner. 10. The welding system as in claim 9, wherein said robot has up to 6 degrees of freedom and said positioner has 2 degrees of freedom. 11. The welding system as in claim 7, further comprising at least one of a group consisting of a torch guide device attached to said welding tip and an image pickup device attached to said welding tip. 12. A method for determining and physically replicating a shape of a long reach device having a length suitable for use within a portion of an object along a joint curve comprising the steps of: (a) dissecting said long reach device into a number of portions L; (b) assigning an azimuth degree of freedom having an azimuth movement range between each of said L portions and an elevation degree of freedom having an elevation movement range between each of said L portions of said long reach device; (c) discretizing said azimuth movement range into NA intervals and said elevation movement range into NE intervals; (d) determining a total number of shapes M based on said L portions by the equation: M=[NA*NE].sup.L ; (e) generating a representation of the joint curve including said portion of said object; (f) comparing with said representation of said portion of the object, a first representation of said long reach device having one of said M shapes, wherein said one of said M shapes is deemed acceptable if less than a predetermined portion of said representation of said long reach device interferes with said representation of said portion of the object and is deemed unacceptable if more than a predetermined portion of said representation of said long reach device interferes with said representation of said portion of the object; (g) comparing with said representation of said portion of the object, a second representation of said long reach device having another of said M shapes if said first representation is deemed unacceptable, wherein the step of comparing with said representation of said-portion of the object continues for subsequent representations of said long reach device having other of said M shapes until at least one acceptable representation of said long reach device is determined; and (h) physically replicating the shape determined by steps (a)-(g). 13. The method as in claim 12, further comprising: (i) assigning a figure of merit to an acceptable representation of said long reach device, wherein said figure of merit is based on an average distance between said acceptable representation of said long reach device and said representation of said portion of the object, wherein said physical replication is of the shape determined by steps (a)-(g) and (i). 14. The method of claim 12, wherein in step (g), the step of comparing with said representation of said portion of the object continues for subsequent representations of said long reach device having other of said M shapes until all representations of said long reach device having M shapes have been compared to said representation of said portion of the object. 