A robot control apparatus has keys for input/output control and an execution key for permitting execution therefor. A key can be allocated for a reservation sequence stored beforehand. When an operation program is taught for a robot, the reservation sequence allocated to the key can be executed when the key is pressed while the execution is pressed. Then, an operation program can be programmed more correctly by controlling the robot, and time for programming a sequence program is shortened. Execution of an input/output operation due to unintentional or erroneous operation is prevented. Two input/output control sequences can be allocated to one key.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot control apparatus comprising: an input/output device operable to communicate input/output signals with a robot; a teaching device operable to program an operation program for a robot, said teaching device comprising a plurality of first keys, each of said plurality of first keys operable to instruct the robot with a plurality of input/output controls through said input/output device, and at least one second key operable to initiate performance of a series of input/output controls after the series of input/output controls have been instructed by said plurality of first keys; and a controller operable to control the robot through said input/output device according to the input/output controls. 2. The robot control apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an allocator which allocates the series of input/output controls to one of said at least one second key. 3. The robot control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said teaching device further comprises a third key which permits operation of said input/output device, and wherein said controller is operable to perform the series of input/output controls only when one of said at least one second key is pressed at the same time as said third key while programming the operation program. 4. The robot control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said teaching device further comprises: a storage device operable to store a character array allocated to one of said at least one second key; and a display device operable to display the character array when only said one of said at least one second key is pressed while programming the operation program. 5. The robot control apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: a storage device operable to store data corresponding to the character array; and a cell operable to store the data correspondingly to the character array while a control power supply of said robot controller is turned off. 6. The robot control apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising an allocator operable to allocate one of a plurality of the series of input/output controls to one of said at least one second key. 7. The robot control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said teaching device further comprises at least one lighting device corresponding to said at least one second key, respectively, and wherein said teaching device is operable to turn on one of said at least one lighting device when the series of input/output controls allocated to a corresponding one of said at least one second key is completed after said corresponding one of said at least one second key is pressed by a user. 8. The robot control apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a storage device operable to store data corresponding to the input/output controls allocated to one of said at least one second key; and a cell operable to store said data corresponding to the input/output controls allocated to said one of said at least one second key while a control power supply of said robot controller is turned off. 9. The robot control apparatus, according to claim 1, wherein said at least one second key comprises a plurality of second keys. 10. The robot control apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said teaching device further comprises: a third key operable to permit operation of said input/output device; and wherein said controller is operable to perform the series of input/output controls only when one of said plurality of second keys is pressed concurrently with said third key. 11. The robot control apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said teaching device further comprises: a display device; and a storage device operable to store a character array corresponding to each second key of said plurality of second keys; wherein said teaching device displays the character array corresponding to one of said plurality of second keys in said display device when only said one of said plurality of second keys is pressed. 12. The robot control apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said teaching device further comprises a plurality of lighting devices corresponding to said plurality of second keys, respectively, and wherein said teaching device is operable to turn on one of said plurality of lighting devices corresponding to a respective one of said plurality of second keys when one of the series of input/output controls corresponding to said respective one of said plurality of second keys is completed after said respective one of said plurality of second keys is pressed by the user while programming the operation program. 13. The robot control apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said teaching device further comprises: a fourth key for allocating two series of input/output controls for one of said at least one second key; and at least one lighting device corresponding to said at least one second key, respectively; wherein said controller is operable to execute a first series of the two series of input/output controls when said one of said at least one second key is pressed while the programming the operation program, and is operable to turn on a corresponding one of said at least one lighting device when execution of the first series is completed; and wherein said controller is operable to execute a second series of the two series when said one of at least one second key is pressed while said corresponding one of at least one lighting device is lighted, and is operable to turn off said corresponding one of at least one lighting device when execution of the second series is completed. 14. The robot control apparatus according to claim 13, further comprising: a storage device which stores data corresponding to the two series of input/output controls; and a cell provided for backup of the data in said storage device while a control power supply of said robot controller is turned off. 