Method and apparatus for combining a plurality of overlapping policy-based controllers. System also applicable to policy-based process servers. System combines controllers by combining the respective policy information. System combines a plurality of policy-based sub-controllers by combining the associated distributional information contained in the associated sub-policies. An iterative mixture mechanism with temporal persistence regulates the relative contribution of the sub-policies smoothly over time thereby allowing smooth transition of control from one control regime to another. The system provides for modular detection and resolution of conflicts that may arise as a result of combining otherwise incompatible sub-policies. Preferred embodiment performs mixture method in policy space. Another embodiment applies mixture method to value functions associated with each sub-server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of combining a plurality of input control policies, comprising: (a.) providing a first input information transmitting device representing an input control stimulus, (b.) providing a second input information transmitting device representing a plurality of input control policies, (c.) providing an output information transmitting device representing an output control policy, (d.) combining said input control policies into said output control policy, such that more than one said input control policy may simultaneously influence said output control policy for said input control stimulus, (e.) transmitting said output control policy via said output information transmitting device, whereby said method will combine said input control policies by functional composition to obtain a single output control policy, whereby more than one said input control policies are able to simultaneously influence the said output control policy for the said input control stimulus, whereby said method can iterate over time, whereby said method will allow said output control policy to smoothly transition control from being influenced substantially by one of said input control policies to being influenced by substantially another of said input control policies, whereby said method will allow said output control policy to smoothly transition control from being influenced substantially by one particular functional composition of said input control policies to being influenced substantially by another functional composition of said input control policies, whereby said method will allow the combination of a plurality of input control policies for the purpose of consolidating that information into a form suitable for use by a policy-based "action selection executive" (i.e., a policy-based "controller"). 2. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) providing an information storage device which is able to store the plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1, (b.) means for storing the plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 into said information storage device, (c.) retrieving the plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 from said information storage device and making this information available to the method recited in claim 1 via the second input information transmitting device recited in claim 1, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of input control policies and the information generating devices that generated the input control policies. 3. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) providing an information storage device which is able to store the input control stimulus recited in claim 1, (b.) storing the input control stimulus recited in claim 1 into said information storage device, (c.) retrieving said input control stimulus from said information storage device and making this information available to the method recited in claim 1 via the first input information transmitting device recited in claim 1, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of input control stimuli and the information generating devices that generated the input control stimuli. 4. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) providing an information storage device which is able to store the output control policy recited in claim 1, (b.) storing said output control policy into said information storage device, (c.) retrieving said output control policy from said information storage device and making this information available externally via said output information transmitting device representing a persistent copy of the output control policy recited in claim 1, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of the method and the information processing devices that utilize the output control policy. 5. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) providing an action distribution input information transmitting device capable of identifying a plurality of actions, (b.) providing an information processing device capable of applying a control policy to said plurality of actions and selecting a single output action from said plurality of actions, (c.) providing an action output information transmitting device capable of describing or identifying an action, (d.) utilizing said information processing device to the task of selecting an output action from said plurality of actions via said action distribution input information transmitting device according to the output control policy recited in claim 1, (e.) transmitting said action via said output information transmitting device, whereby said method may be utilized to select said output action from said plurality of actions described or identified by said input information transmitting device, whereby the said selection of output a from the said plurality of actions depends upon the output control policy, whereby said selection can occur repeatedly over time, whereby said method may be utilized as a controller by using it to select said output action in a fashion dependant upon said input control policies and make this selection externally available, whereby said method may be utilized as a stochastic controller. 6. The method recited in claim 5, further including (a.) providing an action distribution input information storage device capable of containing a description of a plurality of actions, (b.) storing a description of said plurality of actions into said action distribution input information storage device, (c.) retrieving said descriptions of said plurality of actions from said action distribution input information storage device and making this information available to the method recited in claim 5, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of the method and the information processing devices that utilize said method as a controller, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of the method and the information processing devices that generate input control policy information that is provided as input to the method, whereby information representing or identifying actions referred to by the method or controlled by the method can be maintained and utilized internally within the method, whereby said method may be utilized as a stochastic controller and cleanly encapsulated as a distinct information processing system. 7. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) providing an action distribution input information transmitting device capable of identifying a plurality of input actions, (b.) providing an information processing device capable of applying the output control policy recited in claim 1 to said plurality of input actions and selecting a plurality of output actions from said plurality of input actions, (c.) providing a fuzzy action distribution output information transmitting device capable of describing a plurality of output actions, (d.) utilizing said information processing device to the task of selecting a plurality of output actions from said plurality of input actions via said action distribution output information transmitting device according to the output control policy recited in claim 1, (e.) transmitting said plurality of output actions via said fizzy action distribution output information transmitting device, whereby said method may be utilized to select a plurality of output actions from a plurality of input actions described or identified by said action distribution input information transmitting device, whereby the said selection of plurality of output actions from the said plurality of input actions depends upon the output control policy recited in claim 1, whereby said selection can occur repeatedly over time, whereby said method may be utilized as a controller by using it to select a plurality of output actions in a fashion dependant upon said input control policies and make this selection externally available, whereby said method can be utilized as a fuzzy controller. 8. The method recited in claim 7, further including (a.) providing an input information storage device capable of containing a description of a plurality of stored input actions, (b.) storing a description of said plurality of stored input actions into said information storage device, (c.) retrieving said descriptions of said plurality of stored input actions from said information storage device and making this information available to the method recited in claim 7, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of the method and the information processing devices that utilize said method as a controller, whereby said method may be encapsulated thereby allowing physical separation of the method and the information processing devices that generate input control policy information that is provided as input to the method, whereby information representing or identifying actions referred to by the method or controlled by the method can be maintained and utilized internally within the method, whereby said method can be utilized as a fuzzy controller and cleanly encapsulated as a distinct information processing system. 9. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) detecting potential conflicts that may arise from use of output control policy to drive action selection policy, such that such conflicts can be determined by processing information available within said output control policy, (b.) resolving said potential conflicts by modification of the output control policy, whereby said method will detect conflicts that may arise from combining said plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 and which are evident by examining the output control policy, whereby said method will modify said output control process to free of said conflicts. 10. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) detecting potential conflicts that may arise from use of output control policy to drive action selection policy in the presence of ongoing actions detectable by the method, (b.) resolving said potential conflicts by modification of the output control policy, whereby said method will detect conflicts that may arise from combining said plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 and which could trigger conflicts with ongoing actions, whereby said method will modify said output control process to be free of said conflicts. 11. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) detecting potential conflicts that may arise from use of output control policy to drive action selection policy given actions previously triggered by the method as a result of operation thereof over previous iterations, (b.) resolving said potential conflicts by modification of the output control policy, whereby said method will detect conflicts that may arise from combining said plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 and which could trigger conflicts with actions previously triggered by the method or as a result of its operation, whereby said method will modify said output control process to be free of said conflicts. 12. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) detecting potential conflicts that may arise from use of output control policy to drive action selection policy in the presence of ongoing actions detectable by the method, (b.) resolving said potential conflicts by aborting or modifying one or more ongoing actions, whereby said method will detect conflicts that may arise from combining said plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 and which could trigger conflicts with ongoing actions, whereby said method will resolve said conflicts by modifying or aborting the offending ongoing actions. 13. The method recited in claim 1, further including (a.) detecting potential conflicts that may arise from use of output control policy to drive action selection policy given actions previously triggered by the method as a result of operation thereof, (b.) resolving said potential conflicts by modifying or aborting previously triggered actions, whereby said method will detect conflicts that may arise from combining said plurality of input control policies recited in claim 1 and which could trigger conflicts with actions previously triggered by the method or as a result of its operation, whereby said method will resolve such conflicts by modifying or aborting offending previously triggered actions. 14. The method recited in claim 5, further extending the method to apply to a multitude of actions, (a.) providing an input information storage device capable of containing a plurality of descriptions of policy information for a multitude of actions, each said description of policy information contained in said plurality of descriptions of policy information represented as a compact statistic, (b.) storing said plurality of input control policies into said information storage device, (c.) retrieving said compact statistics from said information storage device and transmitting to said method, (d.) combining said plurality of compact statistics such that the plurality of input control policies represented as compact statistics can be combined, whereby said method can be applied to large action sets. 15. The method recited in claim 6, further extending the method to apply to a multitude of actions, (a.) providing an input information storage device capable of containing a plurality of descriptions of policy information over a multitude of actions, each said description of policy information contained in said plurality of descriptions of policy information represented as a compact statistic, (b.) storing said input control policies into said information storage device, (c.) retrieving said compact statistics from said information and transmitting to said method, (d.) combining said plurality of compact statistics such that the plurality of input control policies represented as compact statistics can be combined, whereby said method can be applied to large action sets. 16. The method recited in claim 1 further extending the method to apply hierarchically to the results of a plurality of applications of the method, (a.) providing a plurality of server information processing devices capable of implementing said method, (b.) providing a master information processing device capable of implementing said method, (c.) interconnecting said server information processing devices to said master information processing device, whereby said method can be applied by using as input the plurality of outputs as computed by distinct instances of said method in a hierarchical manner, whereby said method can be applied in a hierarchical fashion using a plurality of hierarchical levels, whereby said method can apply different embodiments of the invention at different levels within the hierarchy. 17. The method recited in claim 1 further extending the method to apply recursively to the results of a plurality of applications of the method, (a.) providing an information processing device capable of implementing said method, (b.) providing an information storage device capable of storing output results of said information processing device as applied to computing said method, (c.) storing said output results from information processing device into said information storage device, (d.) retrieving said output results from said information storage device into said information processing device, (e.) applying information storage device to the task of computing a plurality of implementations of the method, whereby said method can be applied recursively to compute a plurality of instances of said method, whereby said plurality of instances of said method can be computed and stored for subsequent use as input to a subsequent instance of said method. 18. An article of manufacture comprising a data storage medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform method steps for combining policy information, the method steps comprising: (a.) Identifying v sub-policies at time t: {.pi..sup.m,i.sub.t }, i=1,2, . . . ,v, where .pi..sup.m,i.sub.t is the policy function for the i.sup.th sub-policy at time t, for t=0, 1, 2, . . . , (b.) Specifying a set of actions A where the number of actions in A is denoted by #A and actions in A are denoted by a.epsilon.A, and specifying a stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S, (c.) Specifying a set of permissible mature distributions over v-dimensional policy space: E.OR right.I.sup.v, where I is the real-valued interval from 0 to 1 inclusive (i.e., including 0 and 1 as endpoints), and I.sup.v is the v-dimensional space obtained by taking cross-products of I, (d.) Specifying a v-dimensional "recursive mixing function" g.sup.m : S.times.E.fwdarw.E, such that for the stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S, and mixing value h.epsilon.E, g.sup.m (s.sub.t,h).epsilon.E, where each dimension of said g.sup.m ({character pullout}) is denoted by g.sup.m.sub.i ({character pullout}), i=1,2,. . . ,v, (e.) Specifying a value of the recursive mixing function at the previous time step t-1 represented by the recursive function h.sub.t =g.sup.m (s.sub.t-1,h.sub.t-1), such that the recursion is finite such that for t=0, h.sub.t =h.sub.0 and h.sub.0 is defined to take a value in E, (f.) Computing a functional composition of the v sub-policies {.pi..sup.m,i.sub.t }, i=1,2, . . . ,v, and the v-dimensional recursive mixing function g.sup.m (s.sub.t, h.sub.t), given the stimulus s.sub.t and the previous mixing value h.sub.t, whereby the plurality of v sub-policies can be subsequently combined according to said mixture distributions. 19. The article of claim 18 further specifying: (a.) Specifying a nonrecursive mixing function g.sup.f : S.fwdarw.E, such that for the stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S, g.sup.f (s.sub.t).epsilon.E, where each dimension of said v-dimensional g.sup.f ({character pullout}) is denoted by g.sup.f.sub.i ({character pullout}), i=1,2, . . . ,v, (a.) Computing a linear weighted sum of the v sub-policies: 20. The article of claim 18, further specifying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform method steps for combining policy information, the method steps comprising: (a.) Specifying a recursive mixing function g.sup.m : S.times.E.fwdarw.E , such that for stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S, and mixing value r.epsilon.E, g.sup.m (s.sub.t,r).epsilon.E, (b.) Specifying a nonrecursive mixing function g: S.fwdarw.E, such that for stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S, g(s.sub.t).epsilon.E, (c.) Specifying a value of the mixing function at the previous time step t-1 represented by the recursive function h.sub.t =g.sup.m (s.sub.t-1,h.sub.t-1), such that the recursion is finite such that h.sub.0 is defined to take a value in E, (d.) Specifying at time t a scalar value x.epsilon.I and a scalar value y=1-x, (e.) Specifying a function q.sub.t : E.sup.t.fwdarw.E such that q.sub.t (h.sub.t, h.sub.t-1, h.sub.t-1, . . . , h.sub.1) .epsilon.E, (f.) Computing a recursive update function such that given stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S at time t, 21. The medium recited in claim 20 further specifying (a.) Computing a moving average update of the mixing function such that given stimulus s.sub.t.epsilon.S at time t, 22. The article of claim 18 wherein computing the functional composition of the v sub-policies {.pi..sup.m,i.sub.t }, i=1,2, . . . ,v, and the v-dimensional recursive mixing function g.sup.m (s.sub.t, h.sup.t), given the stimulus s.sub.t and the previous mixing value h.sub.t according to the following: 23. The article of claim 22 further specifying (a.) A linear weighted sum of the v sub-policies: 24. A method of combining a plurality of input value functions, comprising: (a.) providing an input information transmitting device representing an input control stimulus, (b.) providing an input information transmitting device representing a plurality of input value functions, (c.) providing an output information transmitting device representing an output value function, (d.) combining said input value functions into said output value function, such that more than one said input value function may simultaneously influence said output value function for said input control stimulus, (e.) transmitting said output value function via said output information transmitting device, whereby said method will combine said input value function by functional composition to obtain a single output value function, whereby more than one said input value function are able to simultaneously influence the said output value function for the said input control stimulus, whereby said method can iterate over time, whereby said method will allow said output value function to smoothly transition control from being influenced substantially by one of said input value functions to being influenced by substantially another of said input value functions, whereby said method will allow said output value function to smoothly transition control from being influenced substantially by one particular functional composition of said input value functions to being influenced substantially by another functional composition of said input value functions, whereby said method will allow the combination of a plurality of input value functions for the purpose of consolidating that information into a form suitable for use by a policy-based "action selection executive" (i.e., a policy-based "controller") that is able to convert a value function into a control policy, and then use that control policy to automate the execution of action selection. 