Integrated systems, apparatus, software, and methods for performing biochemical analysis, including DNA sequencing, genomic screening, purification of nucleic acids and other biological components and drug screening are provided. Microfluidic devices, systems and methods for using these devices and systems for performing a wide variety of fluid operations are provided. The devices and systems of are used in performing fluid operations which require a large number of iterative, successive or parallel fluid manipulations, in a microscale, or sealed and readily automated format.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of genotyping a sample material in a microscale device, the method comprising: flowing a sample comprising a nucleic acid into a microscale chamber or channel in the microscale device, the microscale chamber or channel having at least one reaction region having a cross sectional dimension of between about 0.1 .mu.m and about 500 .mu.m; amplifying a plurality of sequences from the sample in the reaction region of the device to form an amplified sample; and detecting a plurality of polymorphisms in the amplified sample. 2. A method of genotyping a sample material in a microfluidic device, the method comprising: flowing a sample comprising a nucleic acid into a microscale chamber or channel in the microscale device, the microscale chamber or channel having at least one reaction region with a cross sectional dimension of between about 0.1 .mu.m and about 500 .mu.m; modifying the complexity of the sample in the reaction region of the device to form an modified sample; and, detecting a plurality of polymorphisms in the modified sample. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the microscale device comprises a main sample channel and one or more parallel analysis channels intersecting the main sample channel; and wherein flowing the sample comprises introducing the sample into the main sample channel and aliquoting the sample into the one or more parallel analysis channels. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the microscale device comprises between about one and about 500 parallel analysis channels. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more parallel analysis channels are intersected by one or more reagent introduction channels. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more parallel analysis channels further comprise terminal reservoirs opposite the main sample channel. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein amplifying the plurality of sequences comprises introducing one or more reagents from one or more reagent introduction channels into one or more parallel analysis channels, wherein the reagents comprise a polymerase, dNTPs, and ddNTPs. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises performing size-based electrophoretic separation. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises sequencing the amplified sample. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein sequencing the amplified sample comprises performing the Sanger method of oligonucleotide sequencing. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises hybridizing the amplified sample to one or more members of an oligonucleotide array. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises digesting the amplified sample with a nuclease to produce digested fragments, separating the digested fragments by a size-based separation technique to generate a nuclease digestion pattern, and correlating the nuclease digestion pattern to a presence or absence of a particular marker sequence. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the microscale device comprises a main sample channel and one or more parallel analysis channels intersecting the main sample channel; and wherein flowing the sample comprises introducing the sample into the main sample channel and aliquoting the main sample into the one or more parallel analysis channels. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the microscale device comprises between about one and about 500 parallel analysis channels. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more parallel analysis channels are intersected by one or more reagent introduction channels. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more parallel analysis channels further comprise terminal reservoirs opposite the main sample channel. 17. The method of claim 2, wherein modifying the complexity of the sample comprises concentrating one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences in the sample. 18. The method of claim 2, wherein modifying the complexity of the sample comprises purifying one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences in the sample. 19. The method of claim 2, wherein modifying the complexity of the sample comprises amplifying one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences in the sample using preselected primers that flank the one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein amplifying the one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences comprises introducing one or more reagents from one or more reagent introduction channels into one or more parallel analysis channels, wherein the reagents comprise a polymerase, one or more selected primers, dNTPs, or ddNTPs. 21. The method of claim 2, wherein modifying the complexity of the sample comprises hybridizing one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences in the sample with a predefined probe that is complementary to the one or more subsets of nucleic acid sequences. 22. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises performing size-based electrophoretic separation. 23. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises sequencing the amplified sample. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein sequencing the amplified sample comprises performing the Sanger method of oligonucleotide sequencing. 25. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises hybridizing the amplified sample to one or more members of an oligonucleotide array. 26. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting the plurality of polymorphisms comprises digesting the amplified sample with a nuclease to produce digested fragments, separating the digested fragments by a size-based separation technique to generate a nuclease digestion pattern, and correlating the nuclease digestion pattern to a presence or absence of a particular marker sequence. 27. A system for determining a sequence of nucleotides in a target nucleic acid sequence, comprising: a microfluidic device comprising at least a first analysis channel and at least a first probe introduction channel, wherein the analysis channel intersects and is in fluid communication with the probe introduction channel; a source of the target nucleic acid sequence in fluid communication with the analysis channel; a plurality of separate sources of oligonucleotide probes in fluid communication with the probe introduction channel, each of the plurality of separate sources containing an oligonucleotide probe having a different nucleotide sequence of length n; a sampling system for separately transporting a volume of each of the oligonucleotide probes from the sources of oligonucleotide probes to the probe introduction channel and injecting each of the oligonucleotide probes into the analysis channel to contact the target nucleic acid sequence; and a detection system for identifying whether each oligonucleotide probe hybridizes with the target nucleic acid sequence. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the plurality of separate sources includes all possible oligonucleotide sequences of length n. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein n comprises between five and six. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein n comprises an integer greater than six. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein n comprises between fifteen and twenty. 32. The system of claim 27, wherein the plurality of separate sources of oligonucleotide probes comprise at least about 70% of all possible oligonucleotides having a length of n nucleotides. 33. The system of claim 27, wherein the plurality of separate sources of oligonucleotide probes comprise at least about 90% of possible oligonucleotides having a length of n nucleotides. 34. The system of claim 27, wherein the plurality of separate sources of oligonucleotide probes comprise essentially all possible oligonucleotides having a length of n nucleotides. 35. A microfluidic system, comprising: a microfluidic device comprising at least two intersecting microscale channels; a storage element separable from the microfluidic device and comprising a reagent storage substrate and one or more reagents; and a sampling element operationally coupled to the storage element and at least one of the intersecting microscale channels; wherein the one or more reagents comprise at least about 70% of all possible oligonucleotides having a length of n nucleotides. 36. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents comprise at least about 90% of possible oligonucleotides having a length of n nucleotides. 37. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents comprise essentially all possible oligonucleotides having a length of n nucleotides. 38. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein n comprises between five and six. 39. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein n comprises an integer greater than six. 40. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein n comprises between fifteen and twenty. 41. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein at least one of the microscale channels comprises at least one cross-sectional dimension of between about 0.1 .mu.m and 500 .mu.m. 42. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the at least two intersecting microscale channels comprise between about 10 and about 1000 intersecting microscale channels. 43. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the microfluidic device further comprises a mixing zone fluidically coupled to the at least two intersecting channels, and a size separation zone fluidically coupled to the mixing zone. 44. The microfluidic system of claim 43, wherein the sampling element is operationally coupled to the mixing zone. 45. The microfluidic system of claim 43, wherein the sampling element is operationally coupled to the size separation zone. 46. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the sampling element comprises an electropipettor. 47. The microfluidic system of claim 46, wherein the electropipettor comprises a resolubilization pipettor. 48. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the sampling element comprises a micromachined chip having three capillaries and a sample cup in fluidic communication with the three capillaries, and wherein application of a voltage to one of the capillaries directs fluid flow within the three capillaries and the sample cup. 49. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the sampling element comprises a bottom solvent -supply capillary positioned on a first side of the storage element, and the microfluidic device further comprises a chip capillary positioned on a second side of the storage element and in fluidic communication with one or more of the at least two intersecting microscale channels, and wherein application of a voltage to the bottom solvent-supply capillary directs a fluid to flow from the bottom solvent-supply capillary, through the storage element, and into the chip capillary. 50. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the storage element comprises containers, containers with separate compartments, plates with wells, microtiter plates, matrices, arrays, or polymers. 51. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the reagent storage substrate comprises a cellulose, nitrocellulose, PVDF, polysulfone, nylon, or nytran membrane. 52. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the reagent storage substrate comprises a porous matrix, a charged matrix, a hydrophobic matrix, or a hydrophilic matrix. 53. the microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the reagent storage substrate comprises a flexible matrix. 54. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents comprise fluid samples, dried samples, lyophilized samples, immobilized samples, or combinations thereof. 55. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents are applied to the storage element by spotting the reagents onto the reagent storage substrate. 56. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents are applied to the storage element by ink-jet printing. 57. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents are applied to the storage element by applying the reagents to predefined reagent localization areas on the reagent storage substrate. 58. The microfluidic system of claim 57, wherein the predefined reagent localization areas on the reagent storage substrate comprise indented wells, hydrophilic regions surrounded by hydrophobic areas, or hydrophobic regions surrounded by hydrophilic areas. 59. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents are attached to the reagent storage substrate by one or more cleavable linkers. 60. The microfluidic system of claim 59, wherein the one or more cleavable linkers comprise acid cleavable linkers, base cleavable linkers, or photocleavable linkers. 61. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents comprise oligonucleotide primers. 62. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the one or more reagents comprises a library of probes. 63. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the reagent storage substrate comprises a set of reagent wells fluidically coupled to the at least two intersecting microscale channels. 64. The microfluidic system of claim 63, wherein the set of reagent wells comprises at least 4,096 wells. 65. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the storage element comprises one or more dried primers; wherein the sampling system comprises an electropipettor; and wherein during operation, the electropipettor rehydrates a dried primer to produce a rehydrated primer, and electrophoretically transports the rehydrated primer to at least one of the two or more intersecting microscale channels. 66. The microfluidic system of claim 63, wherein the one or more dried primers comprise an array of nucleic acids. 67. The microfluidic system of claim 63, wherein the one or more dried primers comprise 1024 primers that are five nucleotides in length. 68. The microfluidic system of claim 63, wherein the one or more dried primers comprise 4096 primers that are six nucleotides in length. 69. The microfluidic system of claim 35, further comprising an electrokinetic direction system, wherein the electrokinetic direction system moves the one or more reagents through at least one of the at least two intersecting microscale channels. 70. The microfluidic system of claim 35, further comprising a sequence detector operationally coupled to one or more of the at least two intersecting microscale channels. 71. The microfluidic system of claim 35, wherein the sampling element comprises an automated robot coupled to a pipetting station. 72. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more parallel analysis channels comprise one or more separation channels. 73. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more parallel analysis channels comprise one or more separation channels. 