An automated system is provided for servicing a vehicle and its occupants. An identification signal is communicated either while the vehicle is approaching the terminal or upon arrival and a control signal is then generated beginning and terminating the requested servicing and maintaining control over the operation. Vehicle servicing, such as fueling and washing can be provided robotically to the vehicle without the vehicle occupants being required to emerge from the vehicle or become physically involved in its implementation. Payment is automatically charged to the customers account. Other services, such as sales to the vehicle occupants can be obtained using a single identification and control unit either in the vehicle or outside of it.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for allowing an occupant of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely servicing of the vehicle and its occupants, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving servicing of the vehicle and its occupants in response to a communicated identification signal from the vehicle; an automatic servicing unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for servicing the vehicle and its occupants upon receipt of an authorization signal and the approval signal from the identification and processing unit; and signal communicator means for communicating said identification signal and for producing said authorization signal and controlling said servicing. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said signal communicator means is a single unit. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said servicing unit includes means for refueling the vehicle and said signal communicator includes means for initiating and terminating said refueling and selecting a grade of fuel for said refueling. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said means for initiating and terminating refueling and said fuel grade selection are controlled by one of said vehicle occupants. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein said identification signal is communicated from said communicator means. 6. The system of claim 2 wherein said communicator means is configured to be controlled by one of said vehicle occupants. 7. The system of claim 2 wherein said identification signal is communicated from said communicator means. 8. The system of claim 2 wherein said communicator means automatically communicates said identification signal and said authorization signal within a predetermined distance from the customer identification and processing unit. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said signal communicator means comprises a first signal communicator for transmitting said identification signal and a second signal communicator controlled by one of the vehicle occupants. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said second signal communicator produces said authorization signal and controls said servicing. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said second signal communicator also produces said identification signal. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein said servicing includes means for initiating and terminating refueling and selecting fuel grade. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein said servicing includes means for initiating and terminating refueling and selecting fuel grade. 14. A system for allowing an occupant of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely refueling of the vehicle from the vehicle, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for retaining and transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving refueling of the vehicle in response to an identification signal communicated continuously from the vehicle; an automatic refueling unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for refueling the vehicle upon receipt of a control signal from the vehicle and the approval signal from the identification and processing unit; a first signal communicator for transmitting said identification signal that is receivable by said identification and processing unit when the vehicle is within a predetermined range of the identification and processing unit; a second signal communicator, controlled by the occupant of said vehicle, for producing said control signal to select a grade of fuel and initiate and terminate said refueling; and said identification and processing unit including means for receiving said identification signal transmitted from said first signal communicator. 15. A system for allowing an occupant of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely refueling of the vehicle, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for retaining and transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving refueling of the vehicle in response to a communicated identification signal from a vehicle occupant; an automatic refueling unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for refueling the vehicle and servicing of its occupants upon receipt of a control signal occupant and the approval signal from the identification and processing unit; a signal communicator for transmitting said identification signal to said identification and processing unit and including means for producing said control signal to initiate and terminate refueling and select a grade of fuel; and said identification and processing unit including means for receiving said identification signal transmitted from said signal communicator. 16. A system for allowing an occupant of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely refueling of the vehicle and providing services to its occupants, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for retaining and transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving refueling of the vehicle and servicing of its occupants in response to an identification signal communicated continuously from the vehicle; an automatic refueling unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for refueling the vehicle upon receipt of a control signal from the vehicle and the approval signal from the identification and processing unit; a signal communicator for transmitting said identification signal that is receivable by said identification and approval and processing unit and including means controlled by the vehicle's occupant for producing said control signal to initiate and terminate refueling and select a grade of fuel; and said identification and processing unit including means for receiving said identification signal transmitted from said signal communicator. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein said communicator means automatically communicates said identification and authorization signal within a predetermined distance from the customer identification and processing unit. 18. A system for allowing an occupant of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely refueling of the vehicle from the vehicle, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for retaining and transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving refueling of the vehicle and sales to its occupants in response to an identification signal transmitted continuously from the vehicle; an automatic refueling unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for refueling the vehicle upon receipt of a control signal from the vehicle and the approval signal from the identification and processing unit; a first signal communicator for transmitting said identification signal that is receivable by said identification and processing unit when the vehicle is within a predetermined range of the identification and processing unit; a second signal communicator controlled by the vehicle occupant for transmitting said identification signal and for producing said authorization signal to initiate and terminate refueling and select a grade of fuel; and said identification and processing unit including means for receiving said identification signal transmitted from said first signal communicator. 19. A system for allowing occupants of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely refueling of the vehicle and providing services to the occupants, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for retaining and transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving refueling of the vehicle and services to its occupants in response to a communicated identification signal; an automatic refueling unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for refueling the vehicle upon receipt of an authorization signal and approval signal from the identification and processing unit; and signal communicator means for communicating said identification signal and for producing said authorization signal and controlling said refueling. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein said signal communicator means is a single unit. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein said automatic refueling unit includes means for initiating and terminating said refueling and selecting a grade of fuel for said refueling. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein said means for initiating and terminating refueling and said fuel grade selection are controlled by one of said vehicle occupants. 23. The system of claim 21 wherein said identification signal is communicated continuously from said communicator means. 24. The system of claim 20 wherein said identification signal is communicated from said communicator means in response to a signal received by the communicator means from the customer identification and processing unit. 25. The system of claim 20 wherein said communicator means is controlled by one of said vehicle occupants. 26. The system of claim 19 wherein said signal communicator means comprises a first signal communicator for transmitting said identification signal and a second signal communicator controlled by one of the vehicle occupants. 27. The system of claim 26 wherein said second signal communicator produces said authorization signal and controls said servicing. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein said second signal communicator also produces said identification signal. 29. The system of claim 28 wherein said servicing includes initiating and terminating refueling and selecting fuel grade. 30. The system of claim 27 wherein said servicing includes initiating and terminating refueling and selecting fuel grade. 31. The system of claim 19 wherein said automatic refueling unit includes an automatic fuel dispenser for supplying said fuel to said vehicle which includes means for transferring fuel from bulk storage to an inlet of a fuel tank in the vehicle, said means for transferring including a moveable dispensing head and associated nozzle, guidance means for directing said dispensing head and nozzle toward the fuel tank inlet and engagement means for engaging and disengaging said nozzle and said fuel tank inlet. 