A robotic vehicle system for terrain navigation mobility provides a way to climb stairs, cross crevices, and navigate across difficult terrain by coupling two or more mobile robots with a coupling device and controlling the robots cooperatively in tandem.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic vehicle system for terrain navigation mobility, comprising. a) two robots, comprising a first robot and a second robot, wherein each of the two robots has dual tracks; and b) a coupling device, comprising: i) a connector, mounted with the first robot; and ii) a companion receiver, mounted with the second robot, mate-able with the connector to form the coupling device to connect the two robots in tandem, wherein the companion receiver substantially limits angular motion in the horizontal plane relative to the first robot and the second robot wherein, the coupling device has remote de-couple capability. 2. The robotic vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the coupling device comprises a powered device having a plurality of stop-positions. 3. The robotic vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the coupling device has remote de-couple cabability. 4. The robotic vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the coupling device has remote couple capability. 5. The robotic vehicle system of claim 1, wherein one or more of the two robots has modular payload capabilities. 6. The robotic vehicle system of claim 1, further comprising a control unit, in communication with each of the two robots, the control unit comprising: a) an input-output system, adapted to receive input from an operator and generate tandem robot commands; and b) a communication system, adapted to transmit the tandem robot commands to the robotic vehicle system. 7. The robotic vehicle system of claim 6, wherein the control unit comprises a linked robot control mode, operably controlling the two robots in tandem from the tandem robot commands. 8. The robotic vehicle system of claim 6, wherein the control unit comprises a repeater control mode, communicating the tandem robot commands between the robots using the repeater control mode, and cooperative controlling the two robots in synergy. 9. The robotic vehicle system of claim 6, wherein the input-output system comprises: a) a motion command device, proportionally responsive to the operator input; and b) a mode selector, adapted to receive mode-input from the operator and modify operation of the control unit. 10. The robotic vehicle system of claim 6, each robot comprising a robot data transmitter, wherein the communication system comprises a control unit data receiver responsive to each robot data transmitter. 11. The robotic vehicle system of claim 10, wherein the communication system further comprises a video receiver. 12. The robotic vehicle system of claim 6, each robot comprising a robot data receiver, wherein the communication system comprises a control unit data transmitter, wherein each robot data receiver is responsive to the control unit data transmitter. 13. The robotic vehicle system of claim 12, wherein the robot further comprises a robot video unit. 14. The robotic vehicle system of claim 6, each robot comprising a robot data transceiver, wherein the communication system comprises a control unit data transceiver capable of communication bi-directionally with each robot data transceiver. 15. The robotic vehicle system of claim 14, wherein the robot further comprises a robot video unit and wherein the communication system further comprises a video receiver. 16. A robotic system for terrain navigation mobility comprising: a) a plurality of coupling devices; and b) a plurality of robots, connectable with the plurality of coupling devices to form the robotic system, wherein each robot has dual tracks, wherein each coupling device in the plurality of coupling devices operably connects each robot to another robot to substantially limit angular motion in the horizontal plane, wherein each coupling device has remote de-couple capability. 17. The robotic system of claim 16, further comprising a control unit, in communication with each robot in the plurality robots, the control unit comprising: a) an input-output system, adapted to receive input from an input-generator and generate robot commands; and b) a communication system, adapted to transmit the robot commands to the robotic system. 18. The robotic system of claim 17, wherein the input-generator is an autonomous controller. 19. The robotic system of claim 16, wherein each coupling device has remote couple capability. 20. A robotic vehicle system for navigation mobility, comprising: a) two robots, each robot comprising: i) a robot data transceiver; ii) a robot video unit; and iii) dual tracks; b) a coupling device, operably connecting the two robots in tandem, wherein the coupling device substantially limits angular motion in the horizontal plane relative to the two robots, wherein the coupling device has remote de-couple capability; c) an input-output system, comprising: i) a motion command device, generating multiple-axis commands proportionally responsive to input from an operator; and ii) a mode selector, adapted to receive mode-input from the operator and modify operation of the robotic vehicle system; d) a control unit data transceiver, capable of bi-directional communication with each robot data transceiver; e) a video receiver, responsive to each robot video unit; f) a video display apparatus, responsive to the video receiver; g) a microprocessor, responsive to the input-output system and responsive to the control unit data transceiver; and h) a power source, powering the robotic vehicle system except for the two robots and the coupling device. 21. The robotic system of claim 20, wherein the coupling device has remote couple capability. 