The present invention describes a novel nucleic acid sequencing reagent which consists of a capture moiety, a spacer region and a sequence specific hybridizing region of 4-8 bases. The nucleic acid sequencing reagent of the present invention can also contain an attachment moiety. The nucleic acid sequencing reagent can be arranged into a nested array. This array configuration can then be used to sequence a given template without prior knowledge (de novo) of the wild type or expected sequence in conjunction with primer extension in the presence of a labeled chain terminating nucleotide.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule on a combinatorial array comprising the steps: A) immobilizing a sequencing reagent to a solid surface, wherein said sequencing reagent comprises: i) a capture moiety which can form a stable complex with a capture region of a template nucleic acid molecule; ii) a spacer region; and iii) a sequence specific hybridizing region, wherein said sequence specific hybridizing region comprises 4-8 bases, which are bound to the spacer region and which can hybridize to a complementary region on the template nucleic acid molecule; B) hybridizing said capture region of the template nucleic acid molecule to the capture moiety of the sequencing reagent; C) hybridizing said sequence specific hybridizing region to said complementary region on the template nucleic acid molecule thereby forming a hybridized sequence specific region; D) extending said hybridized sequence specific region by a polymerase with a chain terminating nucleotide thereby forming an extended sequence; and E) determining the identity of said extended sequence. 2. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said sequencing reagent further comprises an attachment moiety which permits for attachment of the sequencing reagent to the solid surface. 3. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said capture moiety is on a first reagent and said sequence specific hybridizing region is on a second reagent. 4. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 3, wherein said first reagent is co-attached to the solid surface and effectively brings the template nucleic acid molecule into close proximity to the sequence specific hybridizing region of the second reagent. 5. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 2, wherein said attachment moiety is at or near the 5' terminus of the sequencing reagent. 6. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 5, wherein said attachment moiety is an amino, thiol, disulfide or biotin group. 7. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said capture moiety comprises a sequence of 8-24 C bases. 8. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said capture moiety comprises a specific sequence complementary to a PCR primer or portion thereof. 9. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said spacer region is at least 10 .ANG. in length. 10. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said spacer region is a region of random, pseudo-random or non-random bases or analogs thereof. 11. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said spacer region is designed to minimize template independent noise. 12. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said solid surface is selected from the group consisting of glass and plastic. 13. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 12, wherein said solid surface is fashioned as a 96-well or 384-well plate. 14. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 12, wherein said plastic is polystyrene plastic. 15. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said solid surface is selected from the group consisting of a glass plate, a quartz wafer, a nylon membrane, a nitrocellulose membrane and a silicon wafer. 16. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, wherein said chain terminating nucleotide is a detectably labeled chain terminating nucleotide. 17. The method of sequencing a template nucleic acid molecule according to claim 16, wherein said detectably labeled chain terminating nucleotide is fluorescently labeled. 