A material delivery system is disclosed which is particularly useful for filtered environments, such as clean rooms, minienvironments, or the like. In one embodiment, the material delivery system is disposed below a work area in a clean room-like environment to store parts to be used at the work area. In another embodiment, the material delivery system includes a material delivery elevator for transporting parts to a desired elevational level. In yet another embodiment, the material delivery system includes a cover which is detachably interconnected with a body to define an enclosed material storage area An assembly is provided to lock the cover down onto the body with a gasket therebetween to appropriately seal this interconnection. This same assembly lifts the cover up and away from the body so as to not damage this gasket. Finally, this same assembly also allows the cover to be rolled off of the body without exposing the gasket to any shear-like forces so as to further reduce the potential for damage to the gasket during removal of the cover from the body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable clean cart that comprises: a body that comprises a first open end; a plurality of wheels interconnected with said body; a cover removably interconnected with said body to close said first open end when said cover is disposed on said body, wherein said cover comprises a lower surface that projects toward said body when said cover is disposed on said body, and wherein said cover further comprises a plurality of rollers that extend beyond said lower surface; and a cover lifting assembly interconnected with said body and engageable with said cover when disposed over said first open end of said body. 2. A cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said lower surface of said cover comprises a gasket, wherein said cover lifting assembly comprises means for displacing said cover away from said body along an at least substantially axial path and in an upward direction to dispose said gasket at a predetermined position above said body. 3. A cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said body comprises at least one cover support surface, wherein said lower surface of said cover comprises a gasket which is sealingly engageable with said at least one cover support surface, wherein said cover lifting assembly comprises means for displacing said cover away from said body along an at least substantially axial path and in an upward direction to dispose said gasket at a predetermined position above said at least one cover support surface of said body. 4. A cart, as claimed in claim 3, wherein: said means for lifting comprises means for reducing degradation of said gasket by operation of said means for lifting. 5. A cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said cover lifting assembly comprises means for pushing said cover at least generally vertically upwardly and away from said body. 6. A cart as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said body comprises at least one cover support surface, wherein each said cover support surface comprises a plurality of roller apertures, wherein each said roller of said cover is disposable downwardly through one of said roller apertures in one of said at least one cover support surface of said body. 7. A cart, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said cover lifting assembly comprises said plurality of rollers on said cover. 8. A cart, as claimed in claim 7, wherein: said cover further comprises a gasket attached to said lower surface of said cover, wherein said gasket extends a first distance away from said lower surface and said plurality of rollers each extend a second distance away from said lower surface, wherein said second distance is greater than said first distance whereby when each of said plurality of rollers is engaged with at least one of said at least one cover support surface, said plurality of rollers maintain said gasket and each said cover support surface of said body in spaced relation. 9. A cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said body further comprises first and second cover support surfaces that are disposed on opposite sides of said body, wherein a first portion of said plurality of rollers are disposed on a first side of said cover, wherein a second portion of said plurality of rollers are disposed on a second side of said cover that is opposite said first side, wherein said first portion of said plurality of rollers interface with said first cover support surface, and wherein said second portion of said plurality of rollers interface with said second cover support surface. 10. A cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said body further comprises at least one cover support surface. 11. A cart, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said at least one cover support surface comprises at least one latch aperture, wherein said cover comprises at least one first latch member, wherein each said first latch member extends downwardly through its own said latch aperture, wherein said cart further comprises at least one second latch member, and wherein each said second latch member is interconnected with said body and is lockingly engageable with its own said first latch member. 12. A cart, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said at least one cover support surface comprises at least one first aperture, wherein said cover comprises at least one first cover dismount member, wherein each said first cover dismount member extends downwardly through its own said first aperture, wherein said cart further comprises at least one second cover dismount member, wherein each said second cover dismount member is movably interconnected with said body and is engageable with its own said first cover dismount member, and wherein said cover lifting assembly comprises each of said first and second cover dismount members. 13. A cart, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: each said second cover dismount member is movable to dispose its corresponding said first cover dismount member out of its corresponding said first aperture by engagement therewith. 14. A cart, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said at least one cover support surface comprises at least one first aperture, wherein said cover comprises at least one first extension, wherein each said first extension extends downwardly through its own said first aperture, wherein said cart further comprises means for engaging each said first extension to retain said cover on said body, and wherein said cover lifting assembly comprises means for pushing each said first extension out of its corresponding said first aperture to remove said cover from said body. 15. A cart, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said at least one cover support surface comprises at least one first aperture, wherein said cover comprises at least one first extension, wherein each said first extension extends downwardly through its own said first aperture and comprises a first latching member and a first camming member, and wherein said cart further comprises a second latching member for each said first latching member and a second camming member for each said first camming member, wherein each said second latching member and said second camming member is movably interconnected with said body. 16. A cart, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: each said first latching member is fixedly disposed in relation to its corresponding said first camming member to define a first latch/cam pair, wherein each said second latching member is fixedly disposed in relation to its corresponding said second camming member to define a second latch/cam pair, wherein each second latch/cam pair is movable from a first position to a second position, wherein when each said second latch/cam pair is in said first position, each said first latching member is lockingly engaged with its corresponding said second latching member, and wherein when each said second latch/cam pair is moved from said first position at least toward said second position, each said first latching member becomes disengaged from its corresponding said second latching member and each said second camming member exerts an at least generally upwardly directed force on its corresponding first camming member to dispose said first latch/cam pair out of its corresponding said first aperture. 17. A cart, as claimed in claim 16, wherein: each said first camming member comprises one of said plurality of rollers, and wherein each said second camming member comprises a first planar surface which is disposed at least substantially parallel with its corresponding said cover support surface by each said second camming member being pivoted through its corresponding said first aperture. 18. A cart, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said first open end projects vertically upwardly. 19. A portable clean cart that comprises: a body that comprises a first open end, as well as first and second cover support surfaces that are disposed on first and second sides, respectively, of said body, wherein each of said first and second cover support surfaces comprise a plurality of roller apertures; a plurality of wheels interconnected with said body; a cover removably interconnected with said body to close said first open end, wherein said cover comprises a lower surface that projects toward said body when said cover is disposed on said body, wherein said cover further comprises a first plurality of rollers that extend beyond said lower surface on a first side of said cover and a second plurality of rollers that extend beyond said lower surface on a second side of said cover, wherein said first plurality of rollers interface with said first cover support surface of said body when said cover is disposed on said body, and wherein said second plurality of rollers interface with said second cover support surface of said body when said cover is disposed on said body; and a cover lifting assembly interconnected with said body and engageable with said cover when disposed over said first open end of said body, wherein said cover lift assembly comprises a plurality of first lifters pivotally interconnected with said body and disposed on said first side of said body, as well as a plurality of second lifters pivotally interconnected with said body and disposed on said second side of said body, wherein each of said plurality of first lifters is engageable with one of said first plurality of rollers on said cover and each of said plurality of second lifters is engageable with one of said second plurality of rollers on said cover. 20. A cart, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: each of said plurality of first lifters and said plurality of second lifters comprises a planar portion and arcuate portion. 21. A cart, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said arcuate portion of each of said plurality of first and second lifters engages its corresponding roller when said cover lifting assembly moves said cover away from said first open end of said body, and wherein said planar portion of each of said plurality of first and second lifters is disposed in coplanar relation with its corresponding first and second cover support surface after said cover lifting assembly has moved said cover away from said first open end of said body to allow said cover to be rolled off of said body. 22. A cart, as claimed in claim 19, further comprising: a cover locking member fixedly interconnected with each of said plurality of first and second lifters. 23. A cart, as claimed in claim 22, wherein: said cover comprises a plurality of cover locking apertures, wherein each of said cover locking members on said body is engageable with its own said cover locking aperture on said cover. 24. A cart, as claimed in claim 23, wherein: each of said first and second pluralities of rollers and one of said cover locking apertures is mounted on a common assembly. 25. A cart, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: said cover comprises a plurality of first latch members, wherein each said first latch member extends downwardly through its own said roller aperture when said cover is disposed on said body, wherein said cart further comprises a plurality of second latch members, and wherein each said second latch member is movably interconnected with said body and is lockingly engageable with its corresponding said first latch member. 26. A cart, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: said cover comprises a plurality of first extensions, wherein each said first extension extends downwardly through its own said roller aperture and comprises a first latching member and a first camming member, and wherein said cart further comprises a second latching member for each said first latching member and a second camming member for each said first camming member, wherein each said second latching member and said second camming member is movably interconnected with said body. 27. A cart, as claimed in claim 26, wherein: each said first camming member comprises one of said first and second plurality of rollers. 28. A cart, as claimed in claim 26, wherein: each said first latching member is fixedly disposed in relation to its corresponding said first camming member to define a first latch/cam pair, wherein each said second latching member is fixedly disposed in relation to its corresponding said second camming member to define a second latch/cam pair, wherein each second latch/cam pair is movable from a first position to a second position, wherein when each said second latch/cam pair is in said first position, each said first latching member is lockingly engaged with its corresponding said second latching member, and wherein when each said second latch/cam pair is moved from said first position at least toward said second position, each said first latching member becomes disengaged from its corresponding said second latching member and each said second camming member exerts an at least generally upwardly directed force on its corresponding first camming member to dispose said first latch/cam pair out of its corresponding said first aperture. 29. A cart, as claimed in claim 28, wherein: each said first camming member comprises one of said plurality of rollers, and wherein each said second camming member comprises a first planar surface which is disposed at least substantially parallel with its corresponding said cover support surface by each said second camming member being pivoted through its corresponding said first aperture. 30. A method for removing a cover from over an open end of a body of a portable clean cart, comprising the steps of: pushing said cover away from said open end of said body of said portable clean cart; and rolling said cover off of said body after said pushing step. 31. A method, as claimed in claim 30, wherein: said pushing step comprising moving said cover away from said open end of said body along an at least substantially axial path. 32. A method, as claimed in claim 30, further comprising the steps of: locking said cover onto said body before said pushing step; and unlocking said cover from said body simultaneously with said pushing step. 