An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece is set forth. The apparatus comprises a first assembly and a second assembly, disposed opposite one another, with an actuator disposed to provide relative movement between the first assembly and second assembly. More particularly, the actuator provides relative movement between at least a loading position in which the first assembly is in a state for loading or unloading of the microelectronic workpiece, and a thermal processing position in which the first assembly and second assembly are proximate one another and form a thermal processing chamber. A thermal transfer unit is disposed in the second assembly and has a workpiece support surface that is heated and cooled in a controlled manner. As the first assembly and second assembly are driven to the thermal processing position by the actuator, an arrangement of elements bring a surface of the microelectronic workpiece into direct physical contact with the workpiece support surface of the thermal transfer unit. In a preferred embodiment, the thermal transfer unit is comprised of a low thermal mass heater and a high thermal mass cooler disposed to controllably cool the low thermal mass heater.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a first assembly; a second assembly disposed opposite the first assembly; one or more elements arranged to support the microelectronic workpiece on the either the first or second assemblies, the one or more elements further being arranged to facilitate automatic loading and unloading of the microelectronic workpiece; an actuator disposed to provide relative movement between the first assembly and second assembly between at least a loading position in which the first assembly and the second assembly are in a state for loading or unloading of the microelectronic workpiece, and a thermal processing position in which the first assembly and second assembly are proximate one another and form a thermal processing chamber; a thermal transfer unit disposed in the second assembly, the thermal transfer unit having a workpiece support surface that is heated and cooled in a controlled manner, the one or more elements of the second assembly bringing a surface of the microelectronic workpiece into direct physical contact with the workpiece support surface of the thermal transfer unit as the first assembly and second assembly are driven to the thermal processing position by the actuator, the thermal transfer unit further comprising: a thick film heater assembly having a first surface forming the wafer support surface of the thick film heater, and a second surface opposite the first surface; and a cooling chuck having a surface proximate the second surface of the thick film heater. 2. An apparatus for thermally processing a microelectronic workpiece, the apparatus comprising: a first assembly; a second assembly disposed opposite the first assembly; one or more elements arranged to support the microelectronic workpiece on the either the first or second assemblies, the one or more elements further being arranged to facilitate automatic loading and unloading of the microelectronic workpiece; an actuator disposed to provide relative movement between the first assembly and second assembly between at least a loading position in which the first assembly and the second assembly are in a state for loading or unloading of the microelectronic workpiece, and a thermal processing position in which the first assembly and second assembly are proximate one another and form a thermal processing chamber; a thermal transfer unit disposed in the second assembly, the thermal transfer unit having a workpiece support surface that is heated and cooled in a controlled manner, the one or more elements of the second assembly bringing a surface of the microelectronic workpiece into direct physical contact with the workpiece support surface of the thermal transfer unit as the first assembly and second assembly are driven to the thermal processing position by the actuator, the thermal transfer unit further comprising: a low thermal mass heater; and a high thermal mass cooler disposed to controllably cool the low thermal mass heater. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the thick film heater comprises: a ceramic layer substrate having a first side thereof forming the wafer support surface; a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces in high thermal communication with the ceramic layer substrate; a layer of dielectric overglaze disposed between and over the high electrical resistance traces and forming the second surface of the heating chuck; and a plurality of vacuum apertures disposed through all layers of the thick film heater. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising a layer of material disposed between and concurrently in physical contact with both the thick film heater and the cooling chuck. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein the layer of material comprises a ceramic fabric. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the surface of the cooling chuck physically contacts the second surface of the thick film heater when cooling the thick film heater. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the cooling chuck is movable with respect to the thick film heater between a first position in which the surface of the cooling chuck is physically disengaged from the second surface of the thick film heater and a second position in which the surface of the cooling chuck directly contacts the second surface of the thick film heater. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein a flow of a low thermal conductivity gas is provided between the surface of the cooling chuck and the second surface of the thick film heater while in the first position. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cooling chuck is movable with respect to the thick film heater between a first position in which the surface of the cooling chuck is physically disengaged from the second surface of the thick film heater and a second position in which the surface of the cooling chuck directly contacts the second surface of the thick film heater, and wherein a vacuum circuit facilitates suction contact force between the surface of the cooling chuck and the second surface of the thick film heater while in the second position. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the cooling chuck is movable with respect to the thick film heater between a first position in which the surface of the cooling chuck is physically disengaged from the second surface of the thick film heater and a second position in which a surface of the cooling chuck directly contacts the second surface of the thick film heater, and wherein a vacuum circuit facilitates suction contact force between the surface of the cooling chuck and the second surface of the thick film heater while in the second position. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the surface of the cooling chuck and the second surface of the thick film heater are separated from one another by a flow channel during heating and cooling sub-cycles of an overall thermal processing cycle. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein a low thermal conductivity fluid and/or gas is provided in the flow channel during the heating sub-cycle and a high thermal conductivity fluid and/or gas is provided in the flow channel during the cooling sub-cycle. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, further comprising the low thermal conductivity fluid and/or gas, and wherein the low thermal conductivity fluid and/or gas comprises nitrogen or argon, or a mixture thereof. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, further comprising the high thermal conductivity fluid and/or gas, and wherein the high thermal conductivity fluid and/or gas comprises helium. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the surface of the cooling chuck is provided with a plurality of apertures through which an impinging, high-speed flow of a heat transfer fluid is provided during a cooling sub-cycle into the flow channel for contact with the second surface of the thick film heater. 16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15, further comprising the heat transfer fluid, and wherein the heat transfer fluid comprises a fluid selected from the group consisting of water and glycol. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thick film heater comprises: one or more ceramic substrate layers; and a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces, arranged according to the shape of the microelectronic workpiece and to optimize the temperature uniformity of the microelectronic workpiece during the thermal processing cycle; and vacuum channels for suction of the microelectronic workpiece contact surface onto the microelectronic workpiece support surface of the thermal transfer unit. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thick film heater comprises: a ceramic layer substrate; a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces in high thermal communication with the ceramic layer substrate; a layer of dielectric overglaze disposed between and over the high electrical resistance traces; and a plurality of vacuum apertures disposed through all layers of the thick film heater. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thick film heater comprises: first and second ceramic layers; a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces disposed between and in high thermal communication with the first and second ceramic layers; and one or more vacuum circuit channels disposed between the high electrical resistance traces, and connected to a plurality of apertures in the first ceramic layer. 20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thick film heater comprises: first and second ceramic layers; a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces disposed between and in high thermal communication with the first and second ceramic layers; and a plurality of vacuum apertures disposed through all layers of the thick film heater. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thick film heater comprises: first and second ceramic layers; a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces disposed in thermal communication with the first and second ceramic layers; a layer of dielectric overglaze disposed between and over the high electrical resistance traces; and one or more vacuum circuit channels disposed between the first and second ceramic layers, and connected to a plurality of apertures in the first ceramic layer. 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the thick film heater comprises: first, second and third ceramic layers, the second ceramic layer being disposed between the first and third ceramic layers; a circuit pattern of high electrical resistance traces disposed in high thermal communication with the first, second and third ceramic layers; a layer of dielectric overglaze disposed between and over the high electrical resistance traces; and one or more vacuum circuit channels disposed in the second ceramic layer, and connected to a plurality of apertures in the first ceramic substrate layer. 