A system includes a rotary device, a rotary absolute position (RAP) sensor generating encoded pairs of voltage signals describing positional data of the rotary device, a host machine, and an algorithm. The algorithm calculates calibration parameters usable to determine an absolute position of the rotary device using the encoded pairs, and is adapted for linearly-mapping an ellipse defined by the encoded pairs to thereby calculate the calibration parameters. A method of calibrating the RAP sensor includes measuring the rotary position as encoded pairs of voltage signals, linearly-mapping an ellipse defined by the encoded pairs to thereby calculate the calibration parameters, and calculating an absolute position of the rotary device using the calibration parameters. The calibration parameters include a positive definite matrix (A) and a center point (q) of the ellipse. The voltage signals may include an encoded sine and cosine of a rotary angle of the rotary device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a rotary device; a pair of rotary absolute position (RAP) sensors positioned with respect to the rotary device, and operable for generating respective encoded pairs of voltage signals describing positional data of the rotary device; and a host machine in communication with the pair of RAP sensors, wherein the host machine is configured to derive calibration parameters and to determine an absolute position of the rotary device using the derived calibration parameters by: recording a plurality of the encoded pairs of voltage signals from the RAP sensors, wherein the recorded plurality of the encoded pairs of voltage signals forms an ellipse; using an ellipse-of-best fit to map the ellipse of the recorded plurality of the encoded pairs of voltage signals to sine/cosine pairs; deriving the calibration parameters from the ellipse-of-best-fit, wherein the calibration parameters map each of the sine/cosine pairs to a respective one of the encoded pairs of voltage signals; and determining the absolute position of the rotary device using the derived calibration parameters. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the calibration parameters include a matrix (A) defined as: .function..times. ##EQU00008## where R is an arbitrary rotation matrix, q is a centerpoint of the ellipse-of-best-fit, P is a symmetric, positive definite matrix, e=c-q.sup.TPq, and c is a scalar value. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes a humanoid robot having a robotic joint, and wherein the rotary device is a rotary portion of the robotic joint. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the encoded pair of voltage signals includes a first voltage signal encoding the cosine of a rotary angle of the rotary device, and a second voltage signal encoding the sine of the rotary angle. 5. A calibration module configured to calibrate a pair of rotary absolute position (RAP) sensors for a system having a rotary device, wherein the pair of RAP sensors are configured to measure a rotary position of the rotary device and output encoded pairs of voltage signals describing the rotary position, the calibration module comprising: a host machine in communication with the RAP sensors, wherein the host machine receives the encoded pairs of voltage signals from the RAP sensors and records the received encoded pairs of voltage signals as data points forming an ellipse and is operable for deriving calibration parameters for determining an absolute position of the rotary device using the encoded pairs of voltage signals; wherein the host machine is configured to: use an ellipse-of-best fit to map the ellipse of the recorded encoded pairs of voltage signals to corresponding sine/cosine pairs; derive the calibration parameters from the ellipse-of-best-fit, wherein the calibration parameters relate the sine/cosine pairs to the encoded voltage signals; and determine the absolute position of the rotary device using the derived calibration parameters. 6. The calibration module of claim 5, wherein the calibration parameters include a matrix (A) defined as: .function..times. ##EQU00009## where R is an arbitrary rotation matrix, q is a centerpoint of the ellipse-of-best-fit, P is a symmetric, positive definite matrix, e=c-q.sup.TPq, and c is a scalar value. 7. The calibration module of claim 5, wherein the encoded pairs of voltage signals each include a first voltage signal encoding the cosine of a rotary angle, and a second voltage signal encoding the sine of the rotary angle. 8. The calibration module of claim 5, wherein the rotary device includes a motor. 9. A method of calibrating a pair of rotary absolute position (RAP) sensors used for measuring a rotary position of a rotary device, the method comprising: measuring the rotary position over time as encoded pairs of voltage signals using the pair of RAP sensors; recording a plurality of the encoded pairs of voltage signals as an ellipse, wherein each of the data points forming the ellipse describes a respective one of the encoded pairs of voltage signals; using the ellipse defined by the encoded pairs of voltage signals to calculate calibration parameters suitable for calibrating the RAP sensor using a host machine, including: using an ellipse-of-best fit to map the ellipse of the recorded encoded pairs of voltage signals, via a host machine, to corresponding sine/cosine pairs; deriving the calibration parameters from the ellipse-of-best-fit via the host machine, wherein the calibration parameters relate the sine/cosine pairs to the encoded voltage signals; and determining the absolute position of the rotary device using the derived calibration parameters. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein measuring the rotary position as encoded pairs of voltage signals includes transmitting a first voltage signal that encodes the cosine of a rotary angle of the rotary device, and transmitting a second voltage signal that encodes the sine of the rotary angle. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein using the ellipse-of-best includes mapping the ellipse of best fit to a unit circle defined by a plurality of the sine/cosine pairs. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein deriving the calibration parameters includes deriving a matrix (A) defined as: .function..times. ##EQU00010## where R is an arbitrary rotation matrix, q is a centerpoint of the ellipse-of-best-fit, P is a symmetric, positive definite matrix, e=c-q.sup.TPq, and c is a scalar value. 