The simultaneous synthesis of diverse organic compounds is performed in stackable modules which are moveable among nesting sites located on work station platform. The reactor module includes a block adapted to receive an array of tube-like reactor vessels. The vessels are sized to optionally accept porus polyethelyene microcannisters with radio frequency transmitter tags. Each vessel has a bottom port connected to an outlet tube. A valve block located below the reactor vessels simultaneously controls discharge through the outlet tubes. The valves block includes plates with aligned, relatively moveable sets of rib surfaces which act through Teflon encapsulated silicone O-ring cord sections to simultaneously close rows of outlet tubes. By first utilizing reactor vessels in one set of 48 positions, out of the possible 52 reactor vessel positions in the reactor block, and then utilizing reactor vessels in the other set of 48 positions and shifting the relative position of the collection plate, a single reactor can be employed to discharge into all of the wells of a standard 96 well microtiter collection plate. The apparatus can be used to perform the entire synthesis or only the final cleavage step of radio frequency tagged synthesis.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus useful for the synthesis of multiple organic compounds, the apparatus comprising means for receiving an array of X number of individual reactor vessels in at least Y number of different positions, wherein Y is a number greater than X, each of said vessels having a port connected to an outlet tube through which fluids discharge, collection means comprising an array of 2.times. number of collection wells, and means for mounting said collection means below said reactor vessel receiving means in one of two positions relative to said reaction vessel receiving means, such that by selecting different sets of the Y number of positions in which the X number of reactor vessels are received, and changing the collection means position, all 2.times. number of collection wells in said collection means can receive discharge from said outlet tubes. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said collection means comprises a standard 96 well microtiter plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein X equals 48. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein Y equal 52. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said collection means mounting means comprises a locator plate and a vacuum adapter with a collection means receiving opening. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising means for aligning said adapter in one of two positions relative to said locator plate. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said reactor vessels comprises a porus polyethlyene microcannister with a radio frequency transmitter tag. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising valve means interposed between said reactor vessels and said collection means for simultaneously regulating the discharge of fluids through said outlet tubes. 