An apparatus for automated milking of animals which comprises a milking compartment and a milking robot that is provided with teat cups and a mechanism for connecting the teat cups to the animals being milking in milking compartment. A carrier element for the teat cups is disclosed which is movable in three dimensions while being supported and moved by three sets of controlled piston and cylinder elements, each set of said elements having one end on ends thereof connected to the milking compartment and the other end thereof connected to the carrier element, the connections to the carrier element (as seen in plan) not being aligned. Each set of controlled piston and cylinder elements consists of two controlled piston and elements which are in "V" configurations so that there are three non-aligned connections of each set to the carrier element and six non-aligned connections to the milking compartment.
Claims Having thus disclosed our invention, what we claim as new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States of America is: 1. A construction for automatically milking animals, said construction comprising a milk box (1) with a milking robot (2), which is provided with teat cups and with means for connecting the teat cups to the teats of an animal to be milked, characterized in that the teat cups are disposed on a carrier element (3) that is movable in three dimensions by means of at least three control cylinders (4), each of which having one end connected with the milk box (1). 2. A construction as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the at least three control cylinders (4) are not disposed in one plane. 3. An apparatus for the automated milking of animals which comprises: a milking compartment for receiving an animal to be milked; a milking robot that is provided with teat cups and connecting means for connecting said teat cups to an animal in said milking compartment; a carrier element included in said milking robot, said teat cups being disposed on said carrier element; and at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements, each of said controlled piston and cylinder elements being connected on one end to said milking compartment and being linked on their respective opposite ends to said carrier element, whereby said carrier element is selectively movable by said controlled piston and cylinder elements in three dimensions. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements are not all disposed in any single plane which also contains the longitudinal axis of any one of said at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 which further comprises spatial orientation means for spatially orientating said carrier element. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 which comprises a further controlled piston and cylinder element. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 which comprises a further controlled element which is operatively associated with said at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said further controlled element comprises a stepper motor. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements comprises six controlled piston and cylinder elements. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 9 wherein said carrier element comprises three contact points, at least one of said contact points not being in alignment with the other two of said contact points, each of said contact points being connected with two of said six controlled piston and cylinder elements. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein at least three ball joints mounted on said milking compartment, each of said controlled piston and cylinder elements being connected to a corresponding said ball joint. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 which comprises at least three ball joints mounted on said carrier element, each of said controlled piston and cylinder elements being separately connected to a corresponding one of said ball joints. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said carrier element is selectively movable by said at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements substantially parallel to an underlying floor milking compartment. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said teat cups are disposed on said carrier element so as to be movable relative to the remainder of said carrier element, said at least three controlled piston and cylinder elements being linked to said remainder of said carrier element. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said carrier element comprises a rotatable platform for said teat cups. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said carrier element comprises a shiftable platform for said teat cups. 17. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said carrier element comprises a platform for said teat cups which is pivotable. 18. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein said carrier element comprises a platform for said teat cups, said platform consisting of rotatable means or shiftable means or pivotable means or any combination thereof. 19. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said carrier element comprises a lifting device for said teat cups. 20. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein said carrier element comprises means for connecting said teat cups to an animal being milked in said milking compartment. 21. An apparatus for automated milking of animals which comprises: a milking compartment for receiving an animal to be milked; a milking robot that is provided with teat cups and connecting means for connecting said teat cups to an animal in said milking compartment; a carrier element included in said milking robot, said teat cups being disposed on said carrier element; and at least three sets of controlled piston and cylinder elements, each of said sets being connected on one end to said milking compartment and being connected on their opposite respective ends to said carrier element, whereby said carrier element is selectively movable by said sets in three dimensions and substantially parallel to a floor that underlies said milking compartment. 