Method for preventing the formation of coating defects in polymeric coated surfaces in a coating process comprising a plurality of steps that occur prior to the polymeric coating of said surfaces and that contact organic and metal surfaces with a plurality of aqueous compositions in which accumulate in suspension resin particles released from said metal surfaces. Suspended resin particles are prevented from re-depositing on the organic surfaces by converting said surfaces to hydrophilic character by means of oxidizing said surfaces prior to contacting the oxidized surfaces with said suspensions.
Claims We claim: 1. A method form maintaining hydrophobic particles in aqueous suspension when said aqueous suspension is in contact wit organic surfaces, comprising oxidizing said organic surfaces to form oxidized surfaces, contacting said oxidized surfaces with said aqueous suspension of hydrophobic particles, and removing said oxidized surfaces from said aqueous suspension that maintains said particles in suspension, wherein said particles comprise uncured resin particles. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said organic surfaces are contacted with a flame at a temperance, distance and length of time to oxidize said organic surfaces to convert any hydrophobic character thereof to a hydrophilic character. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said organic surfaces comprise thermoset polymeric surfaces. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein said aqueous suspension is repeatedly placed in contact with said thermoset polymeric surfaces. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein said uncured resin particles are comprised of a vinyl plastisol. 6. A method according to claim 2 wherein said organic surfaces having hydrophilic character are contacted with an aqueous alkaline composition prior to contacting with said aqueous suspension of hydrophobic particles. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein said organic surfaces having hydrophilic character are subjected to conditions that degrade the hydrophilic character thereof prior to said contacting. 8. A method according to claim 6 wherein said contacting with said aqueous alkaline composition refreshes the hydrophilic character of said surface. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein said organic surfaces comprise polyurethane or polyester. 10. A method according to claim 2 wherein said aqueous suspension comprises an alkaline composition. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein said organic surfaces having hydrophilic character are subjected to conditions that degrade the hydrophilic character thereof prior to said contacting. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein said organic surfaces comprise polyurethane or polyester. 13. A method of preventing the formation of coating defects in polymeric coated organic surfaces in a coacting process comprising a plurality of steps, which steps occur prior to the polymeric coating of said surfaces and, which steps contact thermoset polymeric organic surfaces and metal surfaces, to which metal surfaces uncured resin particles have been applied, with a plurality of aqueous compositions in which resin particles released from said metal surfaces accumulate in suspension, said steps comprising (1) treating said thermoset polymeric organic surfaces with a flame, (2) contacting said flame treated surfaces with said plurality of aqueous compositions containing said particles, and (3) removing said surfaces from said plurality of aqueous compositions. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said plurality of aqueous compositions includes a first cleaner composition in which sealer particles are suspended. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said plurality of aqueous compositions is contacted with sealer resin on portions of said metal surface. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said aqueous compositions are used repeatedly in said process. 17. A method according to claim 15 wherein said sealer resin comprises a vinyl plastisol. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said vinyl plastisol resin particles are uncured and present in a first aqueous composition during power washing, in a second aqueous composition used in phosphate coating and in a third aqueous composition used for electrocoating said metal surfaces. 19. A method according to claim 17 wherein said first aqueous composition is alkaline. 20. In a process for the assembly line coating of an assembly of pans comprising metal surfaces and thermoset polymeric organic surfaces, said process comprising the application of a hydrophobic sealer resin onto portions of metal surface parts combined in said assembly, contacting said assembly with a plurality of aqueous compositions, applying one or more finish coats to said metal surfaces and thermoset polymeric organic surfaces of said assembly, and curing said coating, the improvement comprising (1) flame treating the surfaces of said thermoset polymeric organic surface parts, (2) contacting said assembly, comprising said flamed treated organic surface parts and said metal pans on which hydrophobic sealer resin has been applied, with a plurality of said aqueous compositions, (3) after contacting said aqueous compositions with said assembly, recovering said plurality of aqueous compositions, and (4) reusing said plurality of aqueous compositions with additional assemblies comprising said flame treated organic surface parts and said metal parts having metal surfaces on which hydrophobic sealer resin has been applied. 21. In a process of assembly line coating of hydrophobic resin materials onto assemblies consisting essentially of parts having thermoset polymeric organic surfaces and metal surfaces, said process including applying hydrophobic sealer resin compositions to portions of metal surfaces, power washing said organic surfaces and hydrophobic sealer treated metal surfaces with a first aqueous composition, phosphate-treating said power-washed surfaces with a second aqueous composition, and electrocoating said phosphate-treated surfaces with a third aqueous composition, wherein sealer resin particles having an affinity for hydrophobic surfaces accumulate in suspension in said aqueous compositions, the improvement comprising, (1) prior to contacting said thermoset polymeric organic surfaces with any of said aqueous compositions, oxidizing said organic surfaces in a manner sufficient to convert any hydrophobic character thereof to hydrophilic character; and (2) wherein after contacting with said third aqueous composition, said oxidized thermoset polymeric organic surfaces of said electrocoated assemblies are substantially free of uncured resin particles. 22. The improved process according to claim 21 wherein said oxidized organic surfaces are contacted with an aqueous alkaline composition prior to contacting with said first, second or third aqueous compositions. 23. The improved process according to claim 21 wherein said hydrophobic sealer particles comprise uncured resin particles of less than about 1 cm in size. 24. The method according to claim 21 wherein said oxidation comprises contacting said thermoset polymeric organic surfaces with a flame at a temperate, distance and length of time to oxidize said surfaces such that any hydrophobic character thereof is converted into a substantially hydrophilic character. 25. A method according to claim 24 wherein said oxidation affects the organic surfaces to a depth of about 40 to about 90 angstroms. 