A control device for a vehicle or mechanism includes a portable displacement controller which permits a non-technical user to achieve effective control of the vehicle or mechanism, by moving the portable displacement controller intuitively with little learning effort. A first sensing device, attached to the displacement controller, detects the user's controlling motion. A second sensing device, attached to the object being controlled, detects motion thereof. An interface device receives signals from the sensing devices, processes those signals to determine relative motion of the controlling motion and the object's motion and outputs a control signal in accordance with the processed signals. The sensing devices each detect motion in six degrees of freedom; the sensing devices each include a three-axis accelerometer, a three-axis gyroscope, and a three-axis magnetometer. In specific embodiments, the accelerometers, gyroscopes, and magnetometers include micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for controlling an entity, comprising: a displacement controller operable by a user of the device; a first sensing device attached to said displacement controller, the first sensing device configured to detect a controlling motion performed by the user; a second sensing device attached to the entity, the second sensing device configured to detect motion of the entity; and an interface device operatively connected to the first sensing device and the second sensing device, the interface device configured to receive signals from the first sensing device and from the second sensing device, process said signals to determine a relative motion of the controlling motion and the motion of the entity, and output a control signal for controlling the entity in accordance with the processed signals. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device is configured to detect motion in a plurality of degrees of freedom. 3. A device according to claim 2, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device comprises a three-axis accelerometer and a three-axis gyroscope. 4. A device according to claim 3, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device further comprises a three-axis magnetometer, the first sensing device detects the controlling motion relative to a first reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the first sensing device, and the second sensing device detects the motion of the entity relative to a second reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the second sensing device. 5. A device according to claim 4, wherein the accelerometers, the gyroscopes, and the magnetometers include micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) devices. 6. A device according to claim 4, wherein the displacement controller further comprises at least one switch, and the first sensing device is configured to perform a calibration procedure relative to the geomagnetic field and earth gravitational field local to the first sensing device in accordance with activation of said switch. 7. A device according to claim 6, wherein said calibration procedure includes scaling motions of the user in accordance with dynamic properties of the entity. 8. A device according to claim 1, wherein the entity includes a mounting base having a cradle portion, and the displacement controller includes an adapter portion configured to mechanically connect to the cradle portion. 9. A device according to claim 1, wherein the displacement controller further comprises a wireless communication device, so that the first sensing device communicates wirelessly with the interface device. 10. A device according to claim 1, wherein the displacement controller further comprises a switch, and the first sensing device is configured so that the signals from the first sensing device are processed only while the switch is activated. 11. A device according to claim 1, wherein the displacement controller further comprises a switch, and the first sensing device is configured so that while said switch is activated, the displacement controller may be moved without altering a current displacement or orientation of the entity. 12. A device according to claim 1, wherein the displacement controller further comprises a switch, and the first sensing device is configured so that activation of said switch is effective to reestablish a reference frame of at least one of said first sensing device and said second sensing device. 13. A device according to claim 1, wherein said device is configured to perform a dynamic calibration procedure in accordance with motions performed by the user and detected by at least one of the first sensing device, the second sensing device, and the entity. 14. A device according to claim 1, wherein the second sensing device and the interface device are combined into one module. 15. A device according to claim 1, further comprising an additional sensing device mounted on the user and configured to detect motion of the user relative to the displacement controller. 16. A device according to claim 15, wherein said interface device is combined with said additional sensing device mounted on the user. 17. A device according to claim 1, wherein the entity is a weapon, an unmanned aerial vehicle, an unmanned ground vehicle, an unmanned surface water vehicle, an unmanned subsurface water vehicle, or a robotic device. 18. A device according to claim 1, wherein the displacement controller is a single-handle controller or a dual-handle controller configured for handling by the user. 19. A device according to claim 1, wherein the displacement controller is configured to be worn by the user. 20. A device according to claim 19, wherein the displacement controller is configured to be secured to a body member of the user, so that the user performs said controlling motion by movement of that body member. 21. A system for controlling a mechanism, comprising: an operating device connected to the mechanism and configured to operate the mechanism; a displacement controller operable by a user of the system; a first sensing device attached to said displacement controller, the first sensing device configured to detect a controlling motion performed by the user; a second sensing device attached to the mechanism, the second sensing device configured to detect motion of the mechanism; and an interface device operatively connected to the first sensing device, the second sensing device, and the operating device, the interface device configured to receive signals from the first sensing device and from the second sensing device, process said signals to determine a relative motion of the controlling motion and the motion of the mechanism, and output a control signal to the operating device so as to control the mechanism in accordance with the processed signals. 22. A system according to claim 21, wherein the operating device is a host computing device included in the mechanism. 23. A system according to claim 22, wherein the mechanism has the second sensing device, the interface device, and the host computing device located therein, and the mechanism further includes a mounting base to which the displacement controller is mechanically connected. 24. A system according to claim 22, wherein the mechanism includes a mounting base having a cradle portion, and the displacement controller includes an adapter portion configured to mechanically connect to the cradle portion, the displacement controller thereby being attachable to and detachable from the mounting base. 25. A system according to claim 21, wherein at least one of the operating device and the interface device includes a non-volatile memory and a display device, the non-volatile memory is configured to store information relating to calibration motions of the user, and the system is configured to control said mechanism in accordance with calibration motions of said user, in accordance with said user logging on to the system or selecting said user's name from a list of users displayed on the display device. 26. A system according to claim 25, further comprising a device for signaling to the user when the user executes a motion outside a range of calibrated motions. 27. A system according to claim 25, wherein the non-volatile memory is configured to store information relating to a security status of the user, and the system is configured to alter an effect of a motion performed by the user in accordance with said security status. 28. A system according to claim 21, wherein the mechanism is a weapon, an unmanned aerial vehicle, an unmanned ground vehicle, an unmanned surface water vehicle, an unmanned subsurface water vehicle, or a robotic device. 29. A system according to claim 21, wherein the displacement controller further comprises a wireless communication device, so that the first sensing device communicates wirelessly with the interface device. 30. A system according to claim 29, wherein the mechanism is a vehicle; the second sensing device, the interface device, and the operating device are located on the vehicle; and the displacement controller has the first sensing device disposed therein and is remote from the vehicle. 31. A system according to claim 21, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device comprises at least one of an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and a magnetometer, each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device thereby configured to detect motion in a plurality of degrees of freedom. 32. A system according to claim 21, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device comprises an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and a magnetometer, each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device thereby configured to detect motion in a plurality of degrees of freedom, the first sensing device detects the controlling motion relative to a first reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the first sensing device, and the second sensing device detects the motion of the mechanism relative to a second reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the second sensing device. 33. A system according to claim 21, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device comprises a three-axis accelerometer, a three-axis gyroscope, and a three-axis magnetometer, each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device thereby configured to detect motion in six degrees of freedom, the first sensing device detects the controlling motion relative to a first reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the first sensing device, and the second sensing device detects the motion of the mechanism relative to a second reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the second sensing device. 34. A system according to claim 21, further comprising an additional sensing device mounted on the user and configured to detect motion of the user relative to the displacement controller. 35. A system according to claim 21, wherein the displacement controller is configured to be worn by the user. 36. A system according to claim 35, wherein the displacement controller is configured to be secured to a body member of the user, so that the user performs said controlling motion by movement of that body member. 37. A system according to claim 21, further comprising a monitoring device for monitoring environmental conditions relating to control of the mechanism, and an indicating device for indicating a level of control performance to the user. 38. A system according to claim 37, wherein the monitoring device is configured to detect a magnetic disturbance, and the indicating device is configured to indicate a loss of performance related to the magnetic disturbance. 39. A method comprising: detecting a controlling motion by a first sensing device attached to a displacement controller, the controlling motion performed by a user of said controller; detecting motion of an entity by a second sensing device attached to the entity; receiving signals from the first sensing device and the second sensing device at an interface device; processing said signals at the interface device to determine a relative motion of the controlling motion and the motion of the entity; and outputting a control signal from the interface device to control the entity in accordance with the processed signals. 40. A method according to claim 39, wherein each of the first sensing device and the second sensing device includes a three-axis magnetometer, the first sensing device detects the controlling motion in six degrees of freedom relative to a first reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the first sensing device, and the second sensing device detects the motion of the entity in six degrees of freedom relative to a second reference frame in accordance with a geomagnetic field local to the second sensing device. 41. A method according to claim 40, wherein the displacement controller includes at least one switch, and further comprising the step of performing a calibration procedure relative to the geomagnetic field local and earth gravitational field local to the first sensing device in accordance with activation of said switch. 42. A method according to claim 41, wherein said calibration procedure includes scaling motions of the user in accordance with dynamic properties of the entity. 43. A method according to claim 40, further comprising monitoring movement of the entity, monitoring motions performed by the user, and performing a dynamic calibration procedure in accordance with said movement of the entity and said motions performed by the user. 44. A method according to claim 39, wherein the displacement controller includes a switch, and said processing step further comprises processing the signals from the first sensing device only while the switch is activated. 45. A method according to claim 39, wherein the entity is a weapon, an unmanned aerial vehicle, an unmanned ground vehicle, an unmanned surface water vehicle, an unmanned subsurface water vehicle, or a robotic device. 46. A method according to claim 39, wherein the controlling motion is performed by the user handling a single-handle controller or a dual-handle controller. 47. A method according to claim 39, wherein the displacement controller is configured to be worn by the user. 48. A method according to claim 47, wherein the displacement controller is configured to be secured to a body member of the user, so that the user performs said controlling motion by movement of that body member. 49. A method according to claim 39, further comprising monitoring environmental conditions relating to control of the mechanism, and indicating a level of control performance to the user. 50. A method according to claim 49, wherein said monitoring includes detecting a magnetic disturbance, and said indicating includes indicating a loss of performance related to the magnetic disturbance. 