A microelectronic element is provided with small meniscus-shaped solder masses, and these masses are connected to deformable connecting elements such as flexible leads. The connections can be made under vacuum in a chamber or in a space enclosed in part by a flexible film. Atmospheric pressure on the flexible film can urge the components together during bonding. Temporary securements such as adhesive bonds between the microelectronic element and the component can hold the microelectronic element in place relative to the component while electrical connections are made by conductive bonding material such a solder.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making bumped semiconductor chips comprising the steps of: (a) providing a unit including one or more semiconductor chips each having a front surface with a plurality of contacts thereon wettable by a bonding material and a passivation layer surrounding said contacts, said passivation layer being non wettable by said bonding material; and (b) contacting the front surfaces of said chips in said unit with molten bonding material, whereby said bonding material contacts both the passivation layer and the contacts, but adheres only to the contacts. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said unit is a wafer including a plurality of semiconductor chips. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said contacting step is performed by wave-soldering. 4. A method as claimed in as claimed in claim 1 wherein said contacts are less than about 100 .mu.m in diameter. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said bonding material is a solder. 6. A unit made by a process as claimed in claim 1 or claim 4 or claim 5. 7. A method of making connections to a microelectronic component having contacts thereon and having a surface surrounding said contacts which is not wettable by a bonding material comprising the steps of: (a) contacting the surface and contacts with said bonding material in a liquid state, whereby said bonding material adheres only to the contacts; (b) activating the bonding material to form bonds between the contacts and conductive features on a connection component; and (c) providing flexible connections between said conductive features and body of the connection component. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said conductive features of said connection component include tip ends of leads, said leads having terminal ends fixed to the body of the connection component, said tip ends of said leads being releasably attached to the connection component body, said providing flexible connections including the step of moving said microelectronic component and said connection component body away from one another to thereby detach the tip ends of the leads from the connection component body and bend said leads towards a vertically-extensive disposition. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein said contacts are less than about 100 .mu.m in diameter. 10. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said bonding material is a solder. 11. A method of preparing a microelectronic unit comprising: (a) providing a microelectronic element having a plurality of contacts arranged in a first row and spaced apart from one another in a first row direction; and (b) applying a liquifiable bonding material on said element in elongated strips extending across said contacts transverse to said first row direction. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said strips of bonding material have widthwise dimensions in said first row direction less than the dimensions of said contacts in said first row direction. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12 wherein at most one said strip of bonding material is applied to each said contact. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step of applying bonding material further includes applying said bonding material to form bulbous tips on said elongated strips, said bulbous tips on strips extending across mutually-adjacent contacts being disposed on opposite sides of said first row of contacts. 15. A method as claimed in claim 13 further comprising bringing said bonding material to a liquid condition, said bonding material wetting said contacts preferentially and not substantially wetting a surface of the microelectronic element surrounding said contacts, so that surface tension in the liquid bonding material forms the bonding material in each said strip into a mass covering the contact associated with such strip. 16. A method as claimed in claim 15 wherein each said mass includes a volume of bonding material about .pi.d.sup.3 /6 or less, where d is the minimum dimension of the contact covered by such mass. 17. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step of applying bonding material includes applying a solder paste. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said step of applying solder paste includes applying said solder paste through a stencil overlying said microelectronic element. 19. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said pads are spaced apart from one another at center-to-center distances of about 125 microns or less in said first row direction. 20. A method as claimed in claim 18 wherein each said strip is less than about 100 microns wide. 21. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said element has a second row of contacts extending in a second row direction transverse to said first row direction, said step of applying bonding material being performed so as to apply said bonding material in strips extending in a common strip direction oblique to said first row direction and oblique to said second row direction. 22. A method as claimed in claim 21 wherein said first and second rows of contacts approach one another. 23. A method as claimed in claim 21 wherein said step of applying bonding material includes applying said bonding material through a stencil. 24. A method of preparing a microelectronic unit comprising: (a) providing a microelectronic element having a plurality of contacts arranged in a first row and spaced apart from one another in a first row direction so that the contacts in said first row define a row centerline; and (b) applying a liquifiable bonding material on said element in masses which touch individual contacts in the row but which have their centers of area offset from the row centerline, the masses touching alternate ones of said contacts in said first row having centers offset in opposite directions from the row centerline. 