Provided is a force-controlled hydro-elastic actuator, including a hydraulic actuator, having a connection to hydraulic fluid and including a mechanical displacement member positioned to be mechanically displaced by fluid flow at the actuator. A valve is connected at the hydraulic actuator connection and has a port for input and output of fluid to and from the valve. At least one elastic element is provided in series with the mechanical displacement member of the hydraulic actuator and is positioned to deliver, to a load, force generated by the hydraulic actuator. A transducer is positioned to measure a physical parameter indicative of the force delivered by the elastic element and to generate a corresponding transducer signal. A force controller is connected between the transducer and the valve to control the valve, based on the transducer signal, for correspondingly actuating the hydraulic actuator and deflecting the elastic element.
Claims We claim: 1. A force-controlled hydro-elastic actuator comprising: a hydraulic actuator having a connection to hydraulic fluid and including a mechanical displacement member positioned to be mechanically displaced by fluid flow at the actuator; a valve connected at the hydraulic actuator connection and having a port for input and output of fluid to and from the valve; at least one elastic element provided in series with the mechanical displacement member of the hydraulic actuator and positioned to deliver, to a load, force generated by the hydraulic actuator; a transducer positioned to measure a physical parameter indicative of the force delivered by the elastic element and to generate a corresponding transducer signal; and a force controller connected to accept an input indicative of a desired actuator output force to be delivered to the load, the force controller being further connected between the transducer and the valve to control the valve based on the transducer signal and the input, for correspondingly actuating the hydraulic actuator, by an amount that delivers to the load the desired actuator output force, and deflecting the elastic element. 2. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the transducer signal is based on deflection of the elastic element. 3. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the hydraulic actuator comprises a hydraulic actuation chamber in which the mechanical displacement member is disposed with respect to the fluid connection, comprising a fluid inlet and a fluid outlet of the chamber for control of displacement of the displacement member by fluid flow into and out of the chamber. 4. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 3 wherein the valve is connected to the fluid inlet and fluid outlet of the actuator chamber. 5. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 4 wherein the valve comprises a flow control valve. 6. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 5 wherein the force controller produces a valve control signal comprising an electrical current, directed to the valve, indicative of a controlled fluid flow to be produced through the valve. 7. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 6 wherein the valve control signal comprises an electrical current indicative of a controlled bi-state valve operation between a state of zero fluid flow and a state of maximum fluid flow. 8. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 7 wherein the force controller further produces a fluid source control signal directed to a fluid source connected to the valve port, the fluid source control signal indicating a controlled pulsed delivery of fluid to the valve in synchrony with the controlled bi-state valve operation. 9. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 6 wherein the valve control signal is based on proportional control of actuator output force. 10. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 6 wherein the valve control signal is based on proportional-integral control of actuator output force. 11. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 4 wherein the connection between the valve and the actuator chamber fluid inlet and fluid outlet is dimensionally fixed. 12. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 3 wherein the hydraulic actuation chamber comprises a linear piston chamber and wherein the displacement member of the chamber comprises a linear piston and a piston push rod extending out of the chamber. 13. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 12 wherein the piston comprises a double-acting piston. 14. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 12 wherein the hydraulic actuation chamber comprises a substantially non-leaky seal at a location where the piston push rod extends out of the chamber. 15. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 12 wherein the hydraulic actuation chamber comprises at least one leaky seal and at least one leakage scavenger seal at a location where the piston push rod extends out of the chamber. 16. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 12 wherein the piston comprises a single-acting piston. 17. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 3 wherein the hydraulic actuation chamber comprises a rotary piston chamber and wherein the displacement member of the chamber comprises a rotary vane and a rotary shaft extending out of the chamber. 18. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the elastic element comprises a nonlinear elastic element. 19. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the elastic element comprises at least one spring disposed in series with the hydraulic actuator displacement member. 20. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the elastic element comprises a plurality of springs positioned to together result in an elasticity provided in series with the hydraulic actuator displacement member. 21. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 further comprising at least one coupling element provided in series with and between the elastic element and the hydraulic actuator displacement member. 22. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 further comprising an output element provided in series with and between the elastic element and the load. 23. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the transducer comprises a potentiometer. 24. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the transducer comprises a strain gauge. 25. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the transducer comprises a magnetic position sensor. 26. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the transducer comprises an optical position sensor. 27. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the valve port includes a connection for receiving fluid pumped by a fluidic pump. 28. The hydro-elastic actuator of claim 1 wherein the elastic element comprises a linear elastic element. 