An apparatus 20 and process for treating and conditioning an etching chamber 30, and cleaning a thin, non-homogeneous, etch residue on the walls 45 and components of the etching chamber 30. In the etching step, a substrate 25 is etched in the etching chamber 30 to deposit a thin etch residue layer on the surfaces of the walls and components in the chamber. In the cleaning step, cleaning gas is introduced into a remote chamber 40 adjacent to the etching chamber 30, and microwave or RF energy is applied inside the remote chamber to form an activated cleaning gas. A short burst of activated cleaning gas at a high flow rate is introduced into the etching chamber 30 to clean the etch residue on the walls 45 and components of the etching chamber. The method is particularly useful for cleaning etch residue that is chemically adhered to ceramic surfaces in the chamber, for example surfaces comprising aluminum nitride, boron carbide, boron nitride, diamond, silicon oxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium oxide, titanium carbide, yttrium oxide, zirconium oxide, or mixtures thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of etching a substrate and treating surfaces in an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) etching the substrate in the etching chamber thereby depositing etch residue on the surfaces in the etching chamber; and (b) transporting the substrate out of the etching chamber while providing activated cleaning gas in the etching chamber under process conditions selected to treat the surfaces of the etching chamber. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein in step (b) the activated cleaning gas is provided in the etching chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of from about 200 to about 2000 sccm for a chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3 and for a time period of from about 0.5 to about 100 seconds. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the activated cleaning gas is introduced into the etching chamber for from about 0.5 to about 24 seconds. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the activated cleaning gas is activated by microwaves applied in a remote chamber by a microwave plasma generator operated at a power level of from about 500 to about 4000 Watts and the cleaning gas is then introduced into the etching chamber. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein the etching chamber is maintained at a lower pressure than the remote chamber. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein the etching chamber is maintained at a pressure of from about 0.1 to about 80 mTorr, and the remote chamber is maintained at a pressure of from about 500 to about 3000 mTorr. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein the surfaces in the etching chamber comprise one or more of aluminum nitride, boron carbide, boron nitride, diamond, silicon oxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium oxide, titanium carbide, yttrium oxide, and zirconium oxide. 8. A method for treating an etching chamber to remove etch residue deposited on surfaces in the etching chamber during the etching of a substrate, the method comprising the steps of providing a burst of activated cleaning gas in the etching chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of from about 200 to about 2000 sccm for an etching chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3 and for a time period of from about 0.5 to about 100 seconds under process conditions selected to clean the etch residue. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the activated cleaning gas is introduced into the etching chamber for from about 0.5 to about 24 seconds. 10. A method according to claim 8 wherein the cleaning gas is activated by microwaves applied in a remote chamber by a microwave plasma generator operated at a power level of from about 500 to about 4000 Watts. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein the etching chamber is maintained at a lower pressure than the remote chamber. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the etching chamber is maintained at a pressure of from about 0.1 to about 80 mTorr, and the remote chamber is maintained at a pressure of from about 500 to about 3000 mTorr. 13. A method according to claim 8 wherein the surfaces in the etching chamber comprise one or more of aluminum nitride, boron carbide, boron nitride, diamond, silicon oxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, titanium oxide, titanium carbide, yttrium oxide, and zirconium oxide. 14. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of etching the substrate comprises etching a layer on the substrate, the layer comprising silicon oxide, silicon nitride, silicon, polysilicon, or other silicon containing materials. 15. A method according to claim 8 further comprising the step of etching a layer on the substrate, the layer comprising silicon oxide, silicon nitride, silicon, polysilicon, or other silicon containing materials. 16. A method according to claim 1 wherein the etch residue comprises a layer containing polymeric and silicon containing species that form on the surfaces during the etching of the substrate. 17. A method according to claim 8 wherein the etch residue comprises a layer containing polymeric and silicon containing species that form on the surfaces during the etching of the substrate. 18. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of etching the substrate comprises etching a dielectric layer on the substrate. 19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the dielectric layer contains silicon. 20. A method according to claim 8 further comprising the initial step of etching a substrate comprising a dielectric layer. 21. A method according to claim 20 wherein the dielectric layer contains silicon. 22. A method of etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) etching a substrate in the etching chamber and thereby depositing etch residue on surfaces in the etching chamber; (b) providing a cleaning gas in a remote chamber and maintaining the cleaning gas at a pressure of from about 500 to about 3000 mTorr; (c) activating the cleaning gas in the remote chamber to form an activated gas using a power of from about 1500 watts to about 2500 watts; and (d) flowing the activated gas from the remote chamber into the etching chamber under flow conditions selected to remove the etch residue from surfaces in the etching chamber without excessive erosion of the surfaces, and maintaining the activated cleaning gas at a pressure of from about 0.1 to about 80 mTorr. 23. A method according to claim 22 wherein the cleaning gas is selected from the group consisting of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, SF.sub.6, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, CCl.sub.4, C.sub.2 Cl.sub.6, and mixtures thereof. 24. A method according to claim 22 wherein the step of activating the cleaning gas comprises providing microwaves to the cleaning gas. 25. A method of cleaning a process chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a cleaning gas in a remote chamber, the remote chamber being maintained at a pressure of from about 500 mTorr to about 3000 mTorr; (b) activating the cleaning gas in the remote chamber at a power level of from about 1500 watts to about 2500 watts, thereby forming activated gas; and (c) flowing the activated gas from the remote chamber into the process chamber, the process chamber being maintained at a pressure of from about 0.1 mTorr to about 80 mTorr. 26. A method according to claim 1 wherein the surfaces are surfaces of walls and components in the etching chamber. 27. A method according to claim 1 wherein the etch residue is nonhomogeneous. 28. A method according to claim 1 wherein the activated cleaning gas is provided under process conditions selected to treat the surfaces of the etching chamber substantially without eroding the surfaces. 29. A method according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning gas is activated by RF energy provided by a capacitively or inductively coupled source. 30. A method according to claim 29 wherein the cleaning gas is activated in a remote chamber. 31. A method according to claim 8 wherein the surfaces are surfaces of walls and components in the etching chamber. 32. A method according to claim 8 wherein the etch residue is nonhomogeneous. 33. A method according to claim 8 wherein the burst of activated cleaning gas is provided under process conditions selected to treat the surfaces of the etching chamber substantially without eroding the surfaces. 34. A method according to claim 8 wherein the cleaning gas is activated by RF energy provided by a capacitively or inductively coupled source. 35. A method according to claim 34 wherein the cleaning gas is activated in a remote chamber. 36. A method of etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) etching a substrate in the etching chamber and thereby depositing etch residue on surfaces in the etching chamber; (b) providing a cleaning gas in a remote chamber; (c) activating the cleaning gas in the remote chamber to form an activated cleaning gas; and (d) cleaning the etch residue on the surfaces in the etching chamber by introducing the activated cleaning gas into the etching chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of from about 200 to about 2000 sccm for a chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3 and for a time period of from about 0.5 to about 100 seconds. 37. A method according to claim 36 wherein the activated cleaning gas is introduced into the etching chamber for from about 0.5 to about 24 seconds. 38. A method according to claim 36 wherein the cleaning gas is selected from the group consisting of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, SF.sub.6, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, CCl.sub.4, C.sub.2 Cl.sub.6, and mixtures thereof. 39. A method according to claim 36 wherein the step of etching the substrate comprises etching a layer on the substrate, the layer comprising silicon oxide, silicon nitride, silicon, polysilicon, or other silicon containing materials. 40. A method of etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) etching a substrate in the etching chamber, thereby depositing etch residue on surfaces in the etching chamber; and (b) cleaning the etch residue on the surfaces in the etching chamber by providing activated cleaning gas in the etching chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of from about 200 to about 2000 sccm for a chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3 and for a time period of from about 0.5 to about 100 seconds. 41. A method according to claim 40 wherein the activated cleaning gas is provided in the etching chamber for from about 0.5 to about 24 seconds. 42. A method according to claim 40 wherein the cleaning gas is selected from the group consisting of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, SF.sub.6, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, CCl.sub.4, C.sub.2 Cl.sub.6, and mixture thereof. 43. A method according to claim 40 wherein the cleaning gas comprises a fluorine species. 44. A method of etching a substrate and cleaning etch residue deposited on surfaces in an etching chamber, the method comprising the steps of: (a) etching a substrate in the etching chamber and thereby depositing etch residue on the surfaces in the etching chamber; (b) providing a cleaning gas in a remote chamber; (c) activating the cleaning gas inside the remote chamber to form an activated cleaning gas; and (d) cleaning the etch residue on the surfaces of walls and components of the etching chamber by introducing the activated cleaning gas into the etching chamber, wherein the etching chamber is maintained at a pressure of from about 0.1 to about 80 mTorr, and the remote chamber is maintained at a pressure of from about 500 to about 3000 mTorr. 45. A method according to claim 44 herein the activated cleaning gas is introduced into the etching chamber at a flow rate equivalent to a rate of from about 200 to about 2000 sccm for a chamber having a volume of about 40,000 cm.sup.3 and for a time period of from about 0.5 to about 100 seconds. 46. A method according to claim 44 herein the cleaning gas is selected from the group consisting of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, SF.sub.6, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, CCl.sub.4, C.sub.2 Cl.sub.6, and mixtures thereof. 47. A method according to claim 44 herein the cleaning gas comprises a fluorine species. 