A system for calibrating a robot used for inspecting a workpiece to maintain the accuracy of the robot during inspection of workpieces on a production basis, the system including means for storing a mathematical model of the robot, means for measuring the position of a target and then calibrating the robot based upon input from the mathematical model and the position of the target.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for calibrating a robot to be used for inspecting a workpiece said robot having a robot arm, said robot arm having an outer end, a camera and a laser light source mounted to said outer end of said robot arm for inspecting said workpiece, said system for calibrating said robot comprising: said outer end of said robot arm being movable within a working envelope; means for controlling the outer end of said robot to a plurality of positions within said working envelope; said laser light source generating a plane of laser light normal to said laser light source; said camera mounted on said outer end of said robot arm at an angle relative to said laser light source; a target positioned within said working envelope; said laser light source projecting said plane of laser light onto said target at each of said plurality of positions of said outer end of said robot arm, said camera generating a measurement of said target at each of said plurality of positions by viewing said projected laser light on said target; means for storing a mathematical model of said robot; and means for calibrating the position of said robot arm based upon said mathematical model of said robot, of said target and said plurality of measurements by said camera of said projected laser light on said target. 2. A system for calibrating a robot to be used for inspecting a workpiece utilizing a robot arm, said robot arm having an outer end, a measurement device mounted to said outer end of said robot arm for inspecting said workpiece, said system for calibrating said robot comprising: a target that can be measured by said measurement device; means for controlling said robot arm to move said measurement device to take a measurement of said target at each of a plurality of locations and orientations; means for storing a mathematical model of said robot; and means for calibrating said robot arm based upon said mathematical model of said robot, said target and said plurality of measurements. 3. The robot calibration system of claim 2 wherein said measurement device comprises a camera and a light source mounted at an angle relative to each other. 4. The system as defined in claim 2 and including at least two targets. 5. A method for calibrating a robot wherein said robot operates within an operating envelope and includes an end effector with an associated measurement device for inspecting a workpiece, said measurement device capable of determining position, the method of calibrating said robot comprising the steps of: storing a mathematical model of said robot having a predetermined number of parameters, each of said parameters containing a nominal value that is calibrated through mathematical optimization as close as possible to its actual value; positioning a target within said operating envelope; storing a sequence of robot operations, wherein said operations are functional to place said end effector and associated measurement device in a measurable location with respect to said target, determine the position of said target and store the position of said target; executing said stored sequence of robot operations; and calibrating said robot for absolute accuracy based on said sequence of said measured positions of said target and said mathematical model of said robot. 6. In the robot calibration method of claim 5, wherein said measurement device comprises a laser and a camera. 7. In a robot calibration system, where said robot operates within an operating envelope and includes an end effector with an associated measurement device for inspecting a workpiece said measurement device being capable of determining position, the system of calibrating said robot comprising: means for storing a mathematical model of said robot having a predetermined number of parameters, each of said parameters containing a nominal value, that is calibrated through mathematical optimization as closely as possible to its actual value; means for positioning a target within said operating envelope; means for storing a sequence of robot operations, wherein said operations are functional to place said end effector and associated measurement device in a measurable location with respect to said target, determine the position of said target and store the position of said target; means for executing said stored sequence of robot operations; and means for calibrating said robot for repeatability based on said calibration data structure and said mathematical model of said robot. 8. In the robot calibration system of claim 7, wherein said measurement device comprises a laser and a plurality camera. 9. A robot inspection system for inspecting a workpiece comprising: a robot having an outer end movable within a working envelope; means for controlling the robot to move said outer end of said robot to a plurality of positions within said working envelope; a measurement device for inspecting said workpiece mounted on said outer end of said, the output of which can be manipulated to provide positional measurement data: a target positioned within said working envelope; a fixture, which holds said workpiece in a location within said working envelope of said robot; means for calibrating said robot, the said measurement device, and the location of said fixture based upon measurements made by said measurement device at said target at each of a plurality of robot positions; means for using the calibration information for said robot, said measurement device, and said location of the fixture to insure that said robot reaches as accurately as possible each commanded position at which inspection of said workpiece can be performed. 10. A method for calibrating a robot device, utilizing the system as defined in claim 9, wherein said robot, the location of the measurement device, and the location of the fixture are calibrated periodically between completion of production measurement tasks whereby the need for further compensation for the effects of wear, temperature and other environmental factors that can affect the repeatability of the robot inspection system over time is eliminated. 11. The system as defined in claim 9 and including at least two targets. 