A method of determining the planar inclination of a surface is disclosed. Each of three lasers positioned within a sensor body are modulated with different sine wave frequencies based on stored values within a wave-table by superimposing onto the emitted light beam a respective sine wave frequency. The light beam is scattered from each laser onto a respective position sensitive detector after being emitted onto a surface to be analyzed. The light beam is then demodulated by producing electrical signals from each respective position sensitive detector and integrating the electrical signals and calculating the planar inclination on the surface based on demodulated values.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the planar inclination of a surface comprising the steps of: modulating each of three lasers positioned within a sensor body with a different sine wave frequency based on stored values within a wave-table by superimposing onto the emitted light beam from each laser the respective sine wave frequency; emitting the light beam from each laser onto a surface to be analyzed; scattering the light beam emitted from each laser onto a respective position sensitive detector formed from a semiconductor chip that is positioned within the sensor body; demodulating each light beam by: producing electrical signals from each respective position sensitive detector corresponding to the position of the scattered light beam, and integrating the electrical signals by values in the wave-table to obtain demodulated values; and calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the demodulated values. 2. A method according to claim 1, and further comprising the step of generating the sine wave frequencies within a digital signal processor. 3. A method according to claim 1, and further comprising the step of operating the digital signal processor in discrete time and phase locking with the scattered light beam signals. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of calculating further comprises the step of integrating over a base frequency. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the sine wave frequencies are produced as frequencies that are prime relative to each other. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of producing electrical signals further comprises the step of producing two signals corresponding to respective sides of the position sensitive detector. 7. A method of determining the planar inclination of a surface comprising the steps of: modulating each of three lasers positioned within a longitudinally extending sensor body with a different sine wave frequency based on stored values within a wave-table by superimposing onto the emitted light beam from each laser the respective sine wave frequency; emitting the light beam from each laser in a longitudinal direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis defined by the sensor body onto a surface to be analyzed; scattering the light beam emitted from each laser into a respective position sensitive detector formed from a semiconductor chip that is positioned within the sensor body; demodulating each light beam by: producing electrical signals from each respective position sensitive detector corresponding to the position of the scattered light beam, and integrating the electrical signals by values in the wave-table to obtain demodulated values; and calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the demodulated values. 8. A method according to claim 7, and further comprising the step of generating the sine wave frequencies within a digital signal processor. 9. A method according to claim 7, and further comprising the step of operating the digital signal processor in discrete time and phase locking with the scattered light beam signals. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein the step of calculating further comprises the step of integrating over a base frequency. 11. A method according to claim 7, wherein the sine wave frequencies are produced as frequencies that are prime to each other. 12. A method according to claim 7, wherein the step of producing electrical signals further comprises the step of producing two signals corresponding to respective sides of the position sensitive detector. 13. A method of determining the planar inclination of a surface for robot arm manipulation comprising the steps of: modulating each of three lasers positioned within a sensor body with a different sine wave frequency based on stored values within a wave-table by superimposing onto the emitted light beam from each laser the respective sine wave frequency; emitting the light beam from each laser onto a surface to be analyzed; scattering the light beam emitted from each laser into a respective position sensitive detector formed from a semiconductor chip that is positioned within the sensor body; demodulating each light beam by: producing electrical signals from each respective position sensor detector corresponding to the position of the scattered light beam, and integrating the signals by values in the wave-table to obtain demodulated values; calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the demodulated values; and controlling manipulation of a robot arm based on the calculated planar inclination. 14. A method according to claim 13, and further comprising the step of generating the sine wave frequencies within a digital signal processor. 15. A method according to claim 13, and further comprising the step of operating the digital signal processor in discrete time and phase locking with the returned light beam signals. 16. A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of calculating further comprises the step of integrating over a base frequency. 17. A method according to claim 13, wherein the sine wave frequencies are produced as frequencies that are prime to each other. 18. A method according to claim 13, wherein the step of producing electrical signals further comprises the step of producing two signals corresponding to respective sides of the position sensitive detector. 19. A method of determining the planar inclination of a surface for robot arm manipulation comprising the steps of: modulating each of three lasers positioned within a longitudinally extending sensor body with a different sine wave frequency based on stored values within a wave-table by superimposing onto the emitted light beam from each laser the respective sine wave frequency; emitting the light beam from each laser in a longitudinal direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis defined by the sensor body onto a surface to be analyzed; scattering the light beam emitted from each laser into a respective position sensitive detector formed from a semiconductor chip that is positioned within the sensor body; demodulating each light beam by: producing electrical signals from each respective position sensitive detector corresponding to the position of the returned light beam, and integrating top and bottom signals by values in the wave-table to obtain demodulated values; calculating the planar inclination of the surface based on the demodulated values; and controlling the manipulation of a robot arm based on the calculated planar inclination. 20. A method according to claim 17, and further comprising the step of generating the sine wave frequencies within a digital signal processor. 21. A method according to claim 19, and further comprising the step of operating the digital signal processor in discrete time and phase locking with the returned light beam signals. 22. A method according to claim 19, wherein the step of calculating further comprises the step of integrating over a base frequency. 23. A method according to claim 19, wherein the sine wave frequencies are produced as frequencies that are prime to each other. 24. A method according to claim 19, wherein the step of producing electrical signals further comprises the step of producing two signals corresponding to respective sides of the position sensitive detector. 