The invention provides methods for preparing a reaction substrate for use as assay devices comprising parallel printing of arrays of biosites on reaction substrates, wherein each biosite comprises a single type of capture probe bound to the reaction substrate and the array of biosites is deposited on the reaction substrate by a capillary bundle printer device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for preparing a reaction substrate for use as an assay device, comprising a step of parallel printing an array of biosites on said reaction substrate, wherein each biosite comprises a single type of capture probe bound to said reaction substrate, and wherein the array of biosites is deposited on the reaction substrate by a capillary bundle printer device, wherein the capillary bundle device comprises: a plurality of bundled capillary tubes, each tube having a proximal end and a distal end; an attachment site for holding the bundled capillary tubes at a point spaced from the distal ends of the capillary tubes; an array template for slidably holding each capillary tube near its distal end, and for allowing the distal end of each capillary tube to move with respect to the attachment site; at least one manifold for positioning the proximal end of each capillary tube within a corresponding supply chamber, wherein each supply chamber is capable of supplying a liquid reagent to at least one corresponding capillary tube; and a positioning device for precisely positioning the array template and the bundled capillary tubes with respect to the reaction substrate and depositing liquid reagents from the distal end of the capillary tubes onto the reaction substrates as biosites. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of bundled capillary tubes comprises about 2 to about 10,000 tubes, having a center-to center spacing of about 80 .mu.m to about 5 mm. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each supply chamber supplies only one capillary tube. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a supply chamber supplies the plurality of bundled capillary tubes. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the bundled capillary tubes comprise a stainless steel, a plastic, a rubber, a glass, a TEFLON.TM., a flexible metal, or a fused silica coated with polyimide. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the device includes a plurality of array templates. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising a positioning device for precisely positioning the reaction substrate. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the capillaries have an inside diameter of about 10 .mu.m to about 200 .mu.m and an outside diameter of about 80 .mu.m to about 500 .mu.m. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the array template comprises an array of sleeves, each sleeve having an inside diameter sufficient to permit a capillary to slide through, and a length sufficient to allow a precise pattern to be maintained while depositing fluids onto the reaction substrate. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the array template comprises a plurality of holes formed in a rigid material. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the array template comprises a rigidly formed or held mesh. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising a housing for containing the supply chambers. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the housing is capable of maintaining an inert atmosphere. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the housing is capable of maintaining an elevated or reduced temperature. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the housing may be pressurized to a predetermined pressure. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the pressure is modulated to control the flow of liquid reagents through the capillary tubes. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the supply chambers are positioned higher than the distal end of the capillary tubes to provide a pressure head. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein deposit of liquid reagent is controlled by a means for electrophoresis. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein supply of liquid reagent is controlled by a means for electro-osmosis. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the device includes multiple sets of supply chambers, each for supplying liquid reagent to a subset of the bundled capillary tubes. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the bundled capillary tubes are free to flex between the attachment site and the array template. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction substrate is pre-etched to define a pattern of reactive areas matching the geometry of the deposited biosites. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the biosites are deposited substantially simultaneously. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein each biosite is fluidically isolated from each other biosite. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the array of biosites is deposited on the reaction substrate in a single print step by the capillary bundle printer device. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the positioning device further comprises a Z-axis motion control. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction substrate is delivered to the capillary bundle by a robotic arm. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the capillary bundles are affixed to a robotic arm. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction substrate comprises a nylon membrane, a polypropylene, a polystyrene, a vinyl, a plastic, or a glass. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the array template comprises a metal grid, a mesh, a rigidly-held fabric mesh, a bundle of sleeve tubes having an inner diameter sufficient to admit the fluid delivery capillaries, or a solid block having holes or channels. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein each biosite comprises a spot of about 25 to about 200 .mu.m in diameter. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein said reaction substrate is optically clear and has a thickness of about 50 to about 300 .mu.m. 33. A method for preparing a reaction substrate for use as an assay device, comprising a step of parallel printing an array of biosites on said reaction substrate, wherein each biosite comprises a single type of capture probe bound to said reaction substrate, and wherein the array of biosites is deposited on the reaction substrate by a capillary bundle printer device, wherein the capillary bundle device comprises: a plurality of bundled capillary tubes, each tube having a proximal end and a distal end; an attachment site for holding the bundled capillary tubes at a point spaced from the distal ends of the capillary tubes; a structure for positioning the proximal end of each capillary tube within a corresponding supply chamber, each supply chamber capable of supplying a liquid reagent to at least one corresponding capillary tube; a print head for holding the plurality of bundled capillary tubes near their distal ends and for precisely positioning the distal ends of the capillary tubes with respect to the reaction substrate to deposit liquid reagents onto the reaction substrate as biosites. 34. The method of claim 33, where the print head includes an ink-jet deposition device. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein the liquid reagent comprises at lease one capture probe. 