A method for installing a vehicle window assembly in a vehicle includes selecting a vehicle interior accessory member from the group including a storage system, a lighting system, an instrument display system, an electrical power system, a temperature controlled air system, a system control panel, a window panel shade system, an interior trim component, a hand grip, and a sun visor assembly, forming the window assembly by securing the selected vehicle interior accessory to a predetermined area of the inner surface of a window panel, and installing the vehicle window assembly over or within a window opening of the vehicle after securing the interior accessory to the window panel such that the interior accessory is accessible to an occupant of the vehicle from the vehicle interior after installation.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method for installing a vehicle window assembly in a vehicle comprising the steps of: providing a window panel having a shape configured to fit at least one of over and within a window opening in the vehicle, said window panel having an inner surface configured to face the interior of the vehicle and an outer surface configured to face the exterior of the vehicle; providing a vehicle interior accessory member, said vehicle interior accessory member selected from the group including a storage system, a lighting system, an instrument display system, an electrical power system, a temperature controlled air system, a system control panel, a window panel shade system, an interior trim component, a hand grip, and a sun visor assembly; forming a vehicle window assembly by securing said vehicle interior accessory member at a predetermined area of said inner surface of said window panel; installing said vehicle window assembly over or within the window opening of the vehicle after said securing of said vehicle interior accessory to said window panel such that said vehicle interior accessory member is accessible to an occupant of the vehicle from the vehicle interior after installation. 2. The method of claim 1 including providing an opaque layer on the inner surface of said window panel covering said predetermined area of said inner surface prior to installation of said window panel on the vehicle, said forming step including securing said vehicle interior accessory member to said opaque layer on said predetermined area. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said securing step includes adhering said vehicle interior accessory member to said opaque layer with a suitable adhesive. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said securing step includes bonding an attachment member to said inner surface of said window panel and coupling said vehicle interior accessory member to said attachment member. 5. The method of claim 4 including selecting said attachment member from the group including a hook and loop fastener, an interlocking pin fastener, a threaded fastener, double-sided tape, a post, and a gasket attached to said window panel for attaching said vehicle window assembly in said vehicle window opening. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said securing step includes bonding said vehicle interior accessory member to said window panel with an adhesive selected from the group including single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives. 7. The method of any of claim 1, 2 or 3 including forming a gasket on at least one of the peripheral edge of said window panel and an area of said window panel proximate the peripheral edge prior to installing said vehicle window assembly in the vehicle. 8. The method of claim 2 including forming said opaque layer to correspond to the shape of a footprint of said vehicle interior accessory member prior to securing said accessory member to said opaque layer. 9. The method of claim 8 including forming said footprint to include at least one of an island, a peninsula, a perimeter margin, and a strip traversing said inner surface of said window panel. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said vehicle interior accessory member includes an electrical power system, said securing step including connecting said electrical power system of said interior accessory member to an electrical conductor in or on said assembly, said installation step including connecting the electrical conductor and electrical power system to the electrical system of the vehicle. 11. The method of claim 1 including providing said vehicle interior accessory member in a plurality of sections, and securing at least one of said sections to said window panel prior to installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle. 12. The method of claim 11 including securing said plurality of said sections to said window panel prior to installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle. 13. The method of claim 11 including securing at least one of said plurality of said sections to said window panel prior to installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle, and securing another of said plurality of said sections to said window panel after installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said forming step includes securing said vehicle interior accessory member at said predetermined area such that at least a portion of said accessory member extends beyond the periphery of said window panel. 15. A method for installing a vehicle window assembly in a vehicle comprising the steps of: providing a window panel having a shape configured to fit at least one of over or within a window opening in the vehicle, said window panel having an inner surface configured to face the interior of the vehicle and a outer surface configured to face the exterior of the vehicle, and said window panel having an opaque layer on said inner surface of said window panel covering a predetermined area of said inner surface; selecting at least one vehicle interior accessory member from the group including a storage system, a lighting system, an instrument display system, an electrical power system, a temperature controlled air system, a system control panel, a window panel shade system, an interior trim component, a hand grip, and a sun visor assembly; forming a vehicle window assembly by securing said vehicle interior accessory member at a predetermined area of said inner surface of said window panel; installing said vehicle window assembly over or within the window opening of the vehicle after said securing of said vehicle interior accessory to said window panel such that said vehicle interior accessory member is accessible to an occupant of the vehicle from the vehicle interior after installation. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said securing step includes adhering said vehicle interior accessory member to said opaque layer with a suitable adhesive. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said securing step includes bonding an attachment member to said opaque layer and coupling said vehicle interior accessory member to said attachment member. 18. The method of claim 17 including selecting said attachment member from the group including a hook and loop fastener, an interlocking pin fastener, a threaded fastener, double-sided tape, a post, and a gasket attached to said window panel for attaching said window panel in said vehicle window opening. 19. The method of any of claim 15, 16, 17 or 18 including selecting at least two of said vehicle interior accessory members from said group, and attaching both of said vehicle interior accessory members to different portions of said opaque layer. 20. The method of any of claim 15, 16 or 17 including forming a gasket on at least one of the peripheral edge of said window panel and an area of said window panel proximate the peripheral edge prior to installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle. 21. The method of claim 15 including forming said opaque layer to correspond to the shape of a footprint of said vehicle interior accessory member prior to securing said accessory member to said opaque layer. 22. The method of claim 21 including forming said footprint to include at least one of an island, a peninsula, a perimeter margin, and a strip traversing said inner surface of said window panel. 23. The method of claim 15 wherein said vehicle interior accessory member includes an electrical power system, said securing step including connecting said electrical power system of said interior accessory member to an electrical conductor in or on said assembly, said installation step including connecting the electrical conductor and electrical power system to the electrical system of the vehicle. 24. The method of claim 15 including providing said vehicle interior accessory member in a plurality of sections, and securing at least one of said sections to said window panel prior to installing said vehicle window assembly in the vehicle. 25. The method of claim 24 including securing said plurality of said sections to said window panel prior to installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle. 26. The method of claim 24 including securing at least one of said plurality of said sections to said window panel prior to installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle, and securing another of said plurality of said sections to said window panel after installing said vehicle window assembly on the vehicle. 27. The method of claim 18 wherein said forming step includes securing said vehicle interior accessory member at said predetermined area such that at least a portion of said accessory member extends beyond the periphery of said window panel. 