A robot with a base, a first link connected to the base by a shoulder joint, and a second link connected to the first link by an elbow joint. A shoulder motor drives the shoulder joint, and an elbow motor drives the elbow joint. An upper elbow pulley is coupled to the first link. An end effector pulley coupled to the upper elbow pulley, and a dual-bladed end effector driven by the end effector pulley. The diameter of the upper elbow pulley and the diameter of the end effector pulley are related by a 1:2 ratio. Ferro-fluid seals are used to seal each joint. A static seal joins the seams of the links. Each arm link has a particle filter. The robot can communicate electrical signals through the revolute joints with a conductive slip-ring assembly. Alternately, the joint may have an inner cylinder and an outer cylinder, and a cable may be coiled between the cylinders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a stationary base; a rotatable first link connected to the base by a shoulder joint; a rotatable second link connected to the first link by an elbow joint; a shoulder motor located inside the base to drive the shoulder joint; a shoulder drive shaft extending from the shoulder motor and non-rotatably secured to the first link; an elbow motor located inside the base to drive the elbow joint; a first elbow pulley positioned in the shoulder joint; an elbow drive shaft extending from the elbow motor and secured to the first elbow pulley; a second elbow pulley positioned in the elbow joint, the second elbow pulley coupled to the first elbow pulley by a first metal drive belt and driven thereby, the second elbow pulley secured to the second link, the first metal drive belt having a first end pinned to the first elbow pulley and a second end pinned to the second elbow pulley; an upper elbow pulley positioned in the elbow joint and coupled to the first link; an end effector pulley coupled to the upper elbow pulley by a second metal drive belt, the second metal drive having a first end pinned to the end effector pulley and a second end pinned to the upper elbow pulley, a diameter of the upper elbow pulley and a diameter of the end effector pulley being related by a 1:2 ratio; and a dual-bladed end effector driven by the end effector pulley. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first and second elbow pulleys have equal diameters. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first metal drive belt extends from the first elbow pulley to the second elbow pulley along a substantially straight first path. 4. The robot of claim 3, wherein the second metal drive belt extends from the upper elbow pulley to the end effector pulley along a substantially straight second path. 5. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a slip-ring assembly for communicating signals from within the base to the first link. 6. The robot of claim 5, wherein the slip-ring assembly comprises a static member affixed to the base and a moving member affixed to the first link, whereby the first link may rotate about the base. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein each joint is sealed by a fluid seal. 8. The robot of claim 7, wherein each fluid seal is a ferro-fluid seal. 9. The robot of claim 1, wherein the elbow motor and shoulder motor are concentrically mounted in the base. 10. A robot comprising: a stationary base; a rotatable first link connected to the base by a shoulder joint; a rotatable second link connected to the first link by an elbow joint; a shoulder motor located inside the base to drive the shoulder joint; a shoulder drive shaft extending from the shoulder motor and non-rotatably secured to the first link; an elbow motor located inside the base to drive the elbow joint; a first elbow pulley positioned in the shoulder joint; an elbow drive shaft extending from the elbow motor and secured to the first elbow pulley; a second elbow pulley positioned in the elbow joint, the second elbow pulley coupled to the first elbow pulley by a first drive belt and driven thereby, the second elbow pulley secured to the second link, the first drive belt extending from the first elbow pulley to the second elbow pulley in a substantially straight first path; an upper elbow pulley positioned in the elbow joint and coupled to the first link; an end effector pulley coupled to the upper elbow pulley by a second drive belt, the second drive extending from the end effector pulley to the upper elbow pulley along a substantially straight second path, a diameter of the upper elbow pulley and a diameter of the end effector pulley being related by a 1:2 ratio; and a dual-bladed end effector driven by the end effector pulley. 