The orientation of a wafer carried on a blade of a semiconductor wafer transfer system is sensed in order to prevent wafer damage during transfer of the wafer from chamber-to-chamber within a semiconductor processing system. A pair of laser beams are used to sense both tilt of the wafer on the blade, and mis-alignment of the blade in the chamber. A control and logic circuit lock out movement of the blade when the laser beams indicate tilt of the wafer or mis-alignment of the blade.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for controlling the operation of a semiconductor wafer transfer robot of the type including movable robotic arm means, a wafer blade for holding a wafer, and motor means for driving said arm means, comprising: means for sensing proper positioning of said wafer and said blade and producing an error signal when said at least one of said wafer and said blade is not properly positioned, said sensing means including (1) a pair of lasers positioned to respectively produce a pair of laser beams passing across and closely spaced from the surface of said blade, and (2) a pair of laser beam sensors for respectively sensing said beams, and each producing an output signal when a corresponding one of said beams is sensed, wherein at least one of said beams is blocked by said wafer or said blade so as not to be received by the corresponding sensor when one of said blade or said wafer is not properly positioned, one of said pairs of said lasers and said sensors being carried on and movable with said arm, and the other of said pair of lasers and said sensors being stationarily mounted; and, control means for controlling said motor means and responsive to said error signal for stopping the movement of said robotic arm means when said one of said wafer and said blade is not properly positioned. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensing means includes logic means having a pair of inputs for respectively receiving the output signals from said sensors, and having an output for delivering said error signal to said control means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, including means for sensing the position of said robotic arm means and for delivering to said control means a signal indicative of the position of said arm means. 4. Apparatus for transferring a semiconductor wafer between a plurality of chambers in a semiconductor wafer processing system, comprising: robotic arm means shiftable between a retracted home position and an extended position wafer transfer position; a blade deposed on the outer end of said arm means and upon which one of said wafers may be supported; means for rotating said arm means between a plurality of indexed positions respectively corresponding to the locations of said chambers; drive means for driving said arm means to rotate between said indexed positions and to shift between said retracted and extended positions; means for sensing when said wafer is properly positioned on said blade and when said arm means is properly positioned at one of said indexed positions thereof, said sensing means including (1) first and second means for respectively producing radiation beams, (2) first and second means for respectively receiving said first and second radiation beams, one of said beam producing means and said beam receiving means being carried on said robotic arm means, the other of said beam producing means and said beam receiving means being stationarily mounted; and, control means coupled with said sensing means and said drive means for controlling the operation of said drive means. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein: said sensing means is operative to produce an output signal related to the position of said wafer on said blade and the rotary position of said arm means, and said control means includes interlock means responsive to said output signal for preventing said drive means from moving said arm means except when said wafer is properly positioned on said blade and said arm means is properly positioned at one of said indexed positions thereof. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein: said interlock means includes a logic circuit having a pair of logic inputs; said sensing means includes a pair of outputs for delivering output signals related to the sensed position of said wafer and said arm means, and said interlock means includes a logic circuit having a pair of logic inputs for respectively receiving said output signals from said sensing means, and having a logic output for delivering an error signal indicating that either said wafer is not properly positioned on said blade or said arm means is not properly positioned at one of said indexed positions thereof. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said other of said beam producing means and said beam receiving means is mounted on at least one of said chambers. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said beam producing means and said beam receiving means are mounted such that said first and second beams pass in close proximity over a face of said wafer, such that slight tilting of said wafer from a proper position thereof on said blade will cause said wafer to block the path of at least one of said beams. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said first and second beam producing means are carried on the combination of said blade and said arm means, and said first and second beam receiving means are mounted on at least one of said chambers. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said first and second beam producing means are mounted on said blade and are oriented such that said beams are spaced apart and parallel to each other. 11. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said robotic arm means includes a pair of articulated arms each having an outer extremity secured to said blade. 12. A method of controlling the operation of a semiconductor wafer transfer system of the type having a blade upon which a wafer is carried, and a robotic arm for transferring said blade between a plurality of chambers in a semiconductor processing system, comprising the steps of: (A) rotating said arm between each of a plurality of indexed positions respectively corresponding to said chambers; (B) shifting said arm between an extended, wafer transferring position, and a retracted, home position; (C) sensing when either said wafer is not in a preselected, desired position on said blade, or when said blade is tilted away from a preselected, desired blade position, said sensing being performed by (i) directing a pair of laser beams parallel and in close proximity to a face said wafer, (ii) receiving at a receiver each of said laser beams after said beams have traversed across said wafer face, and (iii) creating an error signal when either of said beams is blocked by said wafer such that the blocked beam is not received by said receiver; and, (D) inhibiting rotation and shifting of said arm means when the position of said wafer sensed in step (C) is not said preselected position. 13. The method of claim 12, including the step of generating an error signal when said wafer is not in said preselected position thereof, and using said error signal to interrupt the rotation and movement of said arm. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein step (C) includes detecting when said blade is out of a normal aligned position relative to one of said chambers. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein: step (C) is performed by producing a first signal related to the detection of said wafer tilt, and producing a second signal related to the detection of said blade position, and step (D) includes comparing each of said first and second signals with a pre-selected desired logic state. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein step (D) includes issuing an error signal inhibiting the rotation and shifting of said arm unless both of said first and second signals match said pre-selected, desired logic state. 