A system and method for cleaning probe pins on a probe card used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof. A ceramic cleaning wafer is utilized to clean the probe pins without having to remove the probe card from a production line. The same apparatus used to test production wafers also handles the cleaning wafer during a probe cleaning cycle. During operation of the cleaning cycle, the cleaning wafer is placed in a manual load tray, which inserts the cleaning wafer into a prober machine. The cleaning wafer is transported by a robotic trolley to a prealign stage area where the cleaning wafer is aligned and centered. The cleaning wafer is then placed on a support device. The support device and cleaning wafer are positioned under a pneumatic sensor and profiled to determine wafer planarity. The support device and cleaning wafer are then positioned underneath the probe pins on the probe card to be cleaned. Thereafter, the z-axis distance between the probe pins and the surface of the cleaning wafer is decreased such that the probe pins contact the cleaning wafer, thereby removing debris from the probe pins. The cleaning wafer is their removed from the support device when cleaning of the probe pins has been completed.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by United States Letters Patent is: 1. A method for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the method comprising: providing a prober machine comprising a movable support device and a plurality of probe pins; providing a cleaning wafer having an abrasive surface, said cleaning wafer being capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation therethrough; placing the cleaning wafer into the prober machine; placing the cleaning wafer on the support device; positioning the probe pins proximate to the support device and the cleaning wafer; and brings the probe pins into contact with the abrasive surface to remove debris from the probe pins. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer is made from a ceramic material. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer has a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof for use in a prealign stage area to align the cleaning wafer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a portion of the surface of the cleaning wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising measuring electrical characteristics of the probe pins through the electrically conductive material of the cleaning wafer to assess the removal of debris therefrom. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the support device includes a vacuum chuck for holding the cleaning wafer in position under the probe card. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the probe pins are repeatedly contacted with the cleaning wafer to remove substantially all of the debris therefrom. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the distance is changed between the probe pins and the cleaning wafer so that the probe pins have a predetermined amount of over-travel after contacting the cleaning wafer. 9. A method for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the method comprising: providing a prober machine comprising an electromagnetic radiation (EMR) device including an EMR emitter device and an EMR detector device, a movable support device, and a plurality of probe pins; providing a cleaning wafer having an abrasive surface, said cleaning wafer being capable of blocking transmission of EMR therethrough; placing the cleaning wafer into the prober machine; placing the cleaning wafer on the support device; positioning the probe pins proximate to the support device and the cleaning wafer; radiating the cleaning wafer with EMR from the EMR emitter device; determining with said EMR detector device a position of said cleaning wafer; brings the probe pins into contact with the abrasive surface. 10. The method as defined in claim 9, further comprising: moving the abrasive surface against the probe pins to abrasively remove debris therefrom. 11. The method as defined in claim 10, further comprising: measuring electrical characteristics of the probe pins; and determining from said electrical characteristics whether debris remains on the probe pins. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the distance is changed between the probe pins and the cleaning wafer so that the probe pins have a predetermined amount of over-travel after contacting the cleaning wafer. 13. A method for cleaning probes used in testing semiconductor wafers during production without having to remove the probes from a production line, the method comprising: providing a prober machine comprising a probe card having a plurality of probe pins on one side thereof, a manual or auxiliary load tray, a robotic trolley, and a movable support device; providing a cleaning wafer having an abrasive surface capable of removing unwanted debris from the probe pins, the cleaning wafer being capable of blocking transmission of infrared light radiation therethrough; placing the cleaning wafer in the manual or auxiliary load tray; placing the cleaning wafer into the prober machine from the manual or auxiliary load tray; transporting the cleaning wafer with the robotic trolley to a prealign stage area where the cleaning wafer is aligned and centered; moving the cleaning wafer from the prealign stage area to a load position; placing the cleaning wafer on the support device at the load position; profiling the cleaning wafer to determine wafer planarity; positioning the support device and the cleaning wafer proximate to the plurality of probe pins on the probe card; changing the distance between the probe pins and the cleaning wafer such that the probe pins contact the cleaning wafer, thereby cleaning debris from the probe pins; and removing the cleaning wafer from the support device when debris has been removed from the probe pins. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the cleaning wafer is made from a ceramic material. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the cleaning wafer has a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof for use in the prealign stage area to align the cleaning wafer. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein a portion of the cleaning wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising measuring electrical characteristics of the probe pins through the electrically conductive material of the cleaning wafer to assess the removal of debris therefrom. 18. The method of claim 13, further comprising testing the probe pins during cleaning to determine whether debris has been sufficiently removed from the probe pins. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the probe pins are repeatedly contacted with the cleaning wafer to remove debris therefrom. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein the distance is changed between the probe pins and the cleaning wafer so that the probe pins have a predetermined amount of over-travel after contacting the cleaning wafer. 21. The method of claim 13, wherein the prober machine further comprises an infrared light radiation (IR) device including an IR emitter device and an IR detector device, the method further comprising: radiating the cleaning wafer with IR from the IR emitter device; and determining with said IR detector device a position of said cleaning wafer. 