A method and system for selecting a robotic mechanism best suited to perform a job from multiple robotic mechanisms in an automated storage library includes gathering variables in a criteria database to form a decision algorithm. The variables include attributes of each of the plurality of robotic mechanisms, media objects, and media object players. In response to attributes of a job request transferred into the decision algorithm, the decision algorithm selects a robotic mechanism best suited for performing the job request from the plurality of robotic mechanisms based on the attributes of each of the plurality of robotic mechanisms, media objects, and media object players and the attributes of the job request. The selected robotic mechanism is then controlled to perform the job request.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating an automated storage library having a plurality of different types of robotic mechanisms for performing the same type of tasks and a plurality of media objects and media object players, the method comprising: gathering variables in a criteria database to form a decision algorithm, the variables including attributes of each robotic mechanism type and attributes of each of the plurality of robotic mechanisms, media objects, and media object players; transferring attributes of a job request into the decision algorithm; and using the decision algorithm to select a robotic mechanism best suited for performing the job request from the plurality of robotic mechanisms based on the attributes of each robotic mechanism type, the attributes of each of the plurality of robotic mechanisms, media objects, and media object players, and the attributes of the job request. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: controlling the selected robotic mechanism to perform the job request. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: gathering variables includes gathering variables from a host connected to the storage library. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein: the host variables include information regarding at least one of job priority, job data set size, and job multi-cartridge data set size. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein: gathering variables includes gathering variables internal to the storage library. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of media object type, media object quantity, and media object position. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of media object player type, media object player quantity, and media object player position. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of robotic mechanism availability, and robotic mechanism proximity to media objects, media object players, and other robotic mechanisms. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding robotic mechanism time required to complete the job request. 10. The method of claim 5 wherein: the internal storage library variables include information regarding at least one of robotic mechanism age, robotic mechanism reliability, robotic mechanism condition, and robotic mechanism identification number. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising: applying weighting factors to the attributes of each robotic mechanism type and the attributes of each of the plurality of robotic mechanisms, wherein using the decision algorithm to select the best suited robotic mechanism includes selecting the best suited robotic mechanism based on the weighted attributes of each robotic mechanism type and the weighted attributes of each of the plurality of robotic mechanisms. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein: gathering variables includes gathering variables from an operator of the storage library. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein: the operator variables include information regarding time of operation of the storage library. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein: gathering variables includes gathering variables from a manufacturer of the storage library. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein: the manufacturer variables include information regarding storage library performance upgrades, marketing requirements, and special operator requirements. 