A robot provides a communicating means to move based on the transmission and reception of information to/from the outside, thereby making it possible to realize a robot with high usability. In addition, it recognizes the user's condition based on sensors provided around a user and outputs a response message according to the recognition. Thus, an information processing system which is very helpful can be realized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus comprising receiving means for receiving an external communication signal; first memory means for storing identification information of a plurality of persons; imaging means for detecting images of surroundings of the robot; a plurality of component units connected to said robot; driving means for driving said plurality of component units; second memory means for storing feeling information of each of said plurality of persons; identifying means for identifying a sender and a receiver of a communication signal when said receiving means receives said external communication signal; and search means for searching for said receiver identified by said identifying means based on an output image from said imaging means and the identification information stored in the first memory means, wherein said robot moves to said receiver when said search means finds said receiver and notifies said receiver of a call with a performance using said plurality of component units in accordance with said feeling information of said sender. 2. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the receiving means comprises a telephone communicating means. 3. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the external communication signal is formed of an E-mail message. 4. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the performance is an emotional performance. 5. An automatically-moving robot, comprising: memory means for storing information; changing means for changing said information stored in said memory means; and communicating means for periodically communicating with an external information providing device, wherein said changing means updates the information based on request information from said external information providing device. 6. The robot according to claim 5, wherein said information is control information for said automatically-moving robot. 7. A robot comprising: telephone communication means; means for receiving respective outputs from a plurality of sensors mounted on one of a user and the surroundings of the user; user's condition recognizing means for recognizing the user's condition based on a combination of said outputs of said plurality of sensors memory means for storing a plurality of response messages in accordance with the user's condition, wherein the robot provides a response message by reading a message from the memory means in accordance with the user's condition recognized by said user's condition recognizing means when a telephone call is not answered within a predetermined line. 8. The robot according to claim 7, wherein said user's condition recognizing means includes a table that indicates relations between each user's condition and said outputs from said plurality of sensors. 9. An information processing system comprising: telephone communication means; means for receiving respective outputs from a plurality of sensors that are mounted on one of a user and the user's surroundings; user's condition recognizing means for recognizing conditions of said user based on a combination of the outputs from said plurality of sensors; memory means for storing a plurality of response messages in accordance with said conditions of said user, wherein the information processing system provides a response message by reading a message from said memory means in accordance with the user's condition recognized by said user's condition recognizing means when a telephone call is not answered within a predetermined time. 10. A robot comprising: sensor means for inputting information from a user; a plurality of component units connected to the robot; driving means for driving said plurality of component units; output means for outputting predetermined information; and communicating means for communicating with another electronic device, wherein the robot provides a motion driving the plurality of component units when an input is not received from said user within a predetermined time, and after providing said motion, said communicating means transmits said predetermined information from said information outputting means to another electronic device when the input is still not received from the user within a predetermined time. 11. A robot comprising: a movement part for producing movements; a driving means for driving said movement part; input means for inputting music information; characteristic amount extracting means for extracting a characteristic amount of music based on said music information based on said music information input via said input means; synchronized-signal generating means for generating a synchronized-signal based on said characteristic amount extracted by said characteristic amount extracting means; and control means for controlling said driving means based on said synchronized-signal. 