A fugitive pattern of an article to be investment cast wherein the pattern includes a plurality of locator embossments disposed in an array to provide a datum reference system by which the pattern can be held and positioned by a manipulator, such as for example a gripper device to a computer controlled robotic device, for assembly with another component of the pattern assembly. The datum embossments are located on a portion of the pattern that will be removed from the final metallic casting made to replicate the pattern. The casting includes integral cast datum embossments thereon by which the casting can be held and positioned.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of making a fugitive pattern assembly, comprising placing an attaching surface of a fugitive pattern held by a robotic gripper device in proximity to and facing a surface of a fugitive support member, placing a heating device in a space between the attaching surface and the surface of the support member to melt a puddle of a fugitive material on the surface of the support member, moving the heating device out of the space, and relatively moving the pattern and the support member to contact the attaching surface and the puddle, which is solidified during such contact to form a joint therebetween. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the attaching surface is first moved below a surface of the puddle and then moved in an opposite direction to form a smooth filleted corner at the joint between the pattern and the support member. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said attaching surface is heated by said heating device to an extent to soften it but not melt it. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the heating device is movably mounted on the gripper device and moved from a stowed position thereon into the space between the attaching surface and the surface of the support member. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the heating device is pivotally moved into said space. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the heating device is moved from space back to the stowed position thereon after the puddle is formed. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said pattern includes a plurality of locators at which the pattern is held by said gripper device, said locators defining a pattern reference plane. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said locators are disposed in an array that defines a plane parallel with said attaching surface. 9. The method of claim 8 including before placing said attaching surface to face said surface area, the step of determining a planar orientation of said surface area. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein, after said planar orientation is determined, said pattern is attached to said surface area with said attaching surface,oriented to have substantially the same planar orientation as that determined for said surface area. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein said pattern is held at said locators by said gripper device with said attaching surface facing and parallel to a surface area of said support member where said attaching surface will be attached. 