An apparatus and method for measuring viscosity or related properties of fluid samples in parallel is disclosed. The apparatus includes a plurality of tubes and reservoirs in fluid communication with the tubes. The tubes provide flow paths for the fluid samples, which are initially contained within the reservoirs. The apparatus also includes a mechanism for filling the reservoirs with the fluid samples, and a device for determining volumetric flow rates of fluid samples flowing from the reservoirs through the plurality of tubes simultaneously. The disclosed apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least five fluid samples simultaneously. Useful reservoirs and tubes include syringes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring viscosity or related properties of fluid samples in parallel, the apparatus comprising: a frame; a plurality of tubes, each having a first end and second end, providing flow paths for the fluid samples, each of the tubes having a predefined length terminating at the first end with a tip adapted for aspirating a sample from a sample holder and a substantially uniform inner diameter over at least a portion of the pre-defined length; a plurality of reservoirs each in fluid communication with one of the plurality of tubes, and being connected therewith via a hub; an assembly attached to the frame adapted for receiving said tubes and securing them in place relative to the frame; a mechanism adapted for filling the reservoirs with the fluid samples; and a device adapted for determining volumetric flow rates of fluid samples flowing from the reservoirs and through the plurality of tubes simultaneously; wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity of related properties of at least five fluid samples simultaneously. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for filling the reservoirs is a vacuum source in fluid communication with the reservoirs. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for filling the reservoirs is a single or multiple-channel pipette. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the device for determining volumetric flow rate comprises sensors located at upstream and downstream positions along each of the reservoirs. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein each of the sensors comprises a light source and a light detector, the light detector generating a signal in response to a momentary interruption of light from the light source. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the light source is an infrared emitter and the light detector is an infrared detector. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the infrared emitter is an LED and the infrared detector is an IR-sensitive phototransistor. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the light detector includes a Schmitt trigger circuit. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plunger for each tube. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a plunger plate for providing uniform translation of a plurality of plungers. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a DC motor mounted on the frame for axially driving the plunger plate. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the plunger plate is axially driven by a rotatable driveshaft having a stationary axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the device is an infrared detector device. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each reservoir has a vent hole located upstream of the infrared detector device for providing fluid communication with atmosphere and for providing a vacuum break. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least twelve fluid samples simultaneously. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least forty-eight fluid samples simultaneously. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least ninety-six fluid samples simultaneously. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising receptacles for collecting fluid samples exiting the tubes. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the receptacles are wells of a microtiter plate. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an environmental chamber surrounding the tubes and reservoirs for maintaining the fluid samples are a constant temperature. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the hub is a luer hub. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said assembly is a needle capture assembly that includes a hub capture plate having through holes therein adapted for matingly receiving the hub and to which is attached to a preloaded block having a plurality of through holes adapted for permitting penetration through of the tubes. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the preloaded block includes a plurality of through holes that are arranged to correspond with the well spacing of a microtiter plate. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the preloaded block includes an 8.times.12 array of throughholes. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the hub has an enlarged flanged head portion spaced apart from an enlarged body portion by a neck. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the throughholes of hub capture plate are defined to include a first upstream portion that has a width smaller than the flanged head portion and the enlarged body portion of the hub for receiving the rest of the hub and resisting axial movement of the hub. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 further comprising a spring disposed in the preload block for applying a force against the hub. 28. An apparatus for measuring viscosity or related properties of a plurality of fluid samples, the apparatus comprising: a three axis robot having at least one arm and at least one tip on the at least one arm; a tube providing a flow path for the plurality of fluid samples, the tube having a predefined length and a substantially uniform inner diameter over at least a portion of the pre-defined length; a syringe barrel defining a reservoir for receiving the fluid samples, the reservoir in fluid communication with the tube, the barrel and the tube attached to the at least one tip of the robot and the barrel including a vent hole providing fluid communication between the reservoir and the atmosphere outside the barrel; a plunger disposed within the barrel for aspirating the plurality of fluid samples into the reservoir, the plunger aspirating each the plurality of samples into the reservoir until the plunger passes the vent hole, which then allows each of the plurality of samples to flow out of the reservoir; and an upstream detector and a downstream detector for detecting the plurality of samples as the plurality of samples flows out of the reservoir such that a volumetric flow rate of each of the plurality of fluid samples can be determined; wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring the viscosity or related properties of the plurality of fluid samples by relating the volumetric flow rate of each of the plurality of samples to the viscosity or related properties as the robot moves the tube from sample to sample to aspirate each of the plurality of samples followed by allowing each of the plurality of samples to flow out of the reservoir. 29. An apparatus for measuring viscosity or related properties of a at least four fluid samples, the apparatus comprising; a three axis robot having at least one arm and at least two tips on the at least one arm; at least two tubes providing a at least two flow paths for the at least four fluid samples, the at least two tubes having a predefined length and a substantially uniform inner diameter over at least a portion of the pre-defined length; at least two syringe barrels defining at least two reservoirs for receiving the at least four fluid samples, the at least two reservoirs in fluid communication with the at least two tubes, the at least two barrels and the at least two tubes attached to the at least two tips of the robot and the at least two barrels including at least two vent holes for providing fluid communication between the at least two reservoirs and the atmosphere outside the at least two barrels; at least two plungers disposed within the at least two barrels for aspirating the at least four fluid samples into the at least two reservoirs, the at least two plungers aspirating the at least four samples into the at least two reservoirs until the at least two plungers pass the at least two vent holes, which then allows each of the at least four samples to flow out of the at least two reservoirs; and a plunger plate connect to the at least two plungers, the plunger plate providing uniform translation of the at least two plungers for aspirating the at least four samples an upstream detector and a downstream detector associated with the at least two reservoirs for detecting the at least four samples as the at least four samples flow out of the at least two reservoirs such that a volumetric flow rate of each of the at least four samples can be determined; wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring the viscosity or related properties of the at least four fluid samples by relating the volumetric flow rate of each of the at least four samples to the viscosity or related properties as the robot moves the at least two tubes from sample to sample to aspirate each of the at least four samples followed by allowing each of the at least four samples to flow out of the reservoir. 30. A method of screening fluid samples comprising: providing a plurality of fluid samples to a plurality of wells; providing a plurality of reservoirs in fluid communication with the plurality of fluid samples, the reservoirs defined by a plurality of barrels, the barrels attached to a plurality of capillary tubes via a plurality of hubs; aspirating the plurality of fluid samples into the plurality of reservoirs using vacuum pressure to induce flow of the plurality of samples through the plurality of capillary tubes and through the plurality of hubs; allowing the plurality of fluid samples to flow from the reservoirs through the plurality of tubes, the tubes having known diameter and length, the tubes secured in place by an assembly that is adapted to receive the tubes, the assembly being attached to a frame; and detecting the volumetric flow rates of the plurality of fluid samples through each of the tubes simultaneously; and relating the volumetric flow rates to a rheological property of the plurality of fluid samples. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein providing fluid samples to the plurality of reservoirs comprises aspirating the fluid samples into the reservoirs. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein detecting the volumetric flow rates comprises measuring times required for a meniscus within each of the reservoirs to travel a predetermined distance. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising computing the volumetric flow rates from the meniscus travel times. 34. The method of claim 33, further comprising computing viscosities for each of the fluid samples from the meniscus travel times. 35. The method of claim 33, further comprising estimating molecular weights of the fluid samples from the meniscus travel times. 36. The method of claim 31, further comprising detecting the volumetric flow rates of at least twelve of the fluid samples through each of the tubes simultaneously. 37. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising detecting the volumetric flow rates of at least forty-eight of the fluid samples through each of the tubes simultaneously. 38. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising detecting the volumetric flow rates of at least ninety-six of the fluid samples through each of the tubes simultaneously. 39. An apparatus for measuring viscosity or related properties of a plurality of fluid samples, the apparatus comprising: a three axis robot having at least one arm and at least one tip on said at least one arm; a tube providing a flow path for the plurality of fluid samples, the tube having a predefined length and a substantially uniform inner diameter over at least a portion of the pre-defined length; a reservoir for containing the fluid samples, the reservoir in fluid communication with the tube via a hub and said reservoir attached to said at least one tip of said robot; an array of fluid samples from wells of a substrate housing; a mechanism for aspirating the plurality of fluid samples into the reservoir from the array of fluid samples; and a pair of detectors for determining volumetric flow rates of the plurality of fluid samples flowing from the reservoir and through the tube, the pair of detectors determining the volumetric flow rates by detecting the plurality of fluid samples at the plurality of samples flow out of the reservoir after aspiration; wherein the 3 axis robot arm is adapted for translation between the wells of the substrate for measuring viscosity or related properties of the plurality of fluid samples by said robot moving said tube from sample to sample in the array of samples. 40. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said robot comprises at least 2 tips with a reservoir attached to each of said at least 2 tips. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein said robot comprises at least 2 arms, with each of said arms comprising at least one tip with said reservoir. 42. The apparatus of claim 39 further comprising a second robot arm with a second tip wherein at least two viscometers are placed on the tips of the robot arm. 43. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein the reservoir is defined by a barrel and an outer diameter of the tip is larger than an inner diameter of the barrel. 44. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring the viscosity or related properties of the plurality of fluid samples at a rate of no greater than 60 second per sample. 45. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein the array of fluid samples is an array of synthetic samples. 46. The apparatus of claim 45 wherein the array of fluid samples is an array of polymer materials. 47. An apparatus for measuring viscosity or related properties of fluid samples in parallel, the apparatus comprising: an array of syringes, each of the syringes comprising a barrel for containing the fluid samples, a plunger located within the barrel for aspirating the fluid samples into the barrel, and a hypodermic needle in fluid communication with the barrel, the hypodermic needle providing a flow path for the fluid samples and having a substantially uniform inner diameter over a majority of its length; and upstream and downstream detector arrays located along the barrel of each syringe for monitoring volumetric flow rates of the fluid samples through each hypodermic needle simultaneously; wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least five fluid samples simultaneously. 48. The apparatus of claim 47, further comprising a plunger plate attached to each plunger, the plunger plate providing uniform translation of each plunger in a direction parallel to its longitudinal axis. 49. The apparatus of claim 48, further comprising a motor for driving the plunger plate, the motor mechanically linked to the plunger plate. 50. The apparatus of claim 49, further comprising a motor controller for regulating the speed and direction of the motor and the plunger plate. 51. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein the upstream and downstream detector arrays each comprise a plurality of detector elements, each of the detector elements comprising an infrared emitter and an infrared detector aligned on opposing sides of each syringe barrel, the infrared detector generating a signal in response to a momentary interruption of light from the infrared emitter. 52. The apparatus of claim 51, wherein the infrared detector includes a Schmitt trigger detector. 53. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein each barrel has a vent hole located upstream of the upstream detector array, the vent hole providing fluid communication between the barrel interior and the atmosphere and providing a vacuum break during withdraw of the plunger. 54. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least twelve fluid samples simultaneously. 55. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least forty-eight fluid samples simultaneously. 56. The apparatus of claim 47, wherein the apparatus is capable of measuring viscosity or related properties of at least ninety-six fluid samples simultaneously. 