A fractionated sample collection process and device having at least one pressurized chamber used to gather and store liquid samples generated from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid, or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid. A bank of multiple collection chambers is secured together in a frame to form a cassette unit. Each collection chamber may house a replaceable liner such as a test tube vial, to hold a fractionated liquid phase sample. After filling with sample, a collection chamber is returned to a clean state and ready for refilling with a new sample by manually or automatically replacing the liner.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A process for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising the steps of: controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; suppressing formation of aerosols within said separation processes; redirecting said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical starting event into a collection cassette having one or more collection chambers; retaining said liquid phase in said collection chamber and venting said gaseous phase to a waste stream; redirecting said flow stream through said valve system according to a physical stopping event into said waste stream or a second collection chamber. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein: said flow stream is the effluent of a supercritical fluid chromatography system or supercritical fluid extraction system. 3. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: transfer tubing carrying said flow stream enhances said separation processes of said monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases. 4. The process according to claim 3, wherein: said transfer tubing has inner diameter of approximately 0.030 to 0.063 inches, corresponding to a flowrate in said flow stream of approximately 20 to 100 mL/min. 5. The process according to claim 1, wherein: separation of said incompressible liquid is enhanced by controlling the temperature in said flow stream to suppress aerosols in said collection chamber. 6. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: pressure in said flow stream is lowered by the steps of adding restrictors to said flow stream to slow the linear flow rate of said flow stream. 7. The process according to claim 1, wherein-further comprising: said physical starting and stopping events result from a detection device in said flow stream. 8. The process according to claim 1, wherein: said physical starting and stopping events result from a timing device. 9. The process according to claim 1, wherein: said physical starting and stopping events result from a manual signal. 10. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: the volume and direction of said flowstream is controlled with an automatic switching valve system. 11. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: the volume and direction of said flow stream through said flowstream is controlled with a manual switching valve system. 12. A process according to claim 1, wherein: said flowstream collected in said sample collection chamber is pressure controlled to prevent loss of liquid phase due to aerosol formation. 13. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: collecting said liquid phase in a replaceable collection chamber liner housed within said collection chamber, said liner is equilibrated to the pressure inside said collection chamber. 14. The process according to claim 1, wherein: said flow stream discharges from said transfer tube tangentially to the inner wall of said collection chamber. 15. The process according to claim 14, further comprising: a spring wire attached to said transfer tube discharging tangentially to the inner wall of said collection chamber, said spring wire compressing against said inner chamber wall and transferring pressure forces to said transfer tube. 16. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: automatically resetting said collection chamber to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing a collection liner housed within said collection chamber. 17. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: automatically resetting a plurality of collection chambers integrated as a cassette tray to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing each cassette tray during sample collection processes. 18. The process according to claim 1, further comprising: removing said liquid phase fluid from said collection chamber through a sample discharge port in said chamber. 19. The process according to claim 1, wherein: said collection system repetitively collects similar fractions from different injected samples into the same chamber. 20. A process for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising the steps of: controlling the pressure, temperature, and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; suppressing formation of aerosols within said separation processes; redirecting said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical starting event into a collection cassette having one or more collection chambers; retaining said liquid phase in a replaceable collection liner housed within said collection chamber; equilibrating pressure in said collection chamber with said liner; venting said gaseous phase to a waste stream; redirecting said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical stopping event into said waste stream or a second collection chamber liner. 21. The process according to claim 20, wherein: said flow stream is the effluent of a supercritical fluid chromatography system or supercritical fluid extraction system. 22. The process according to claim 20, further comprising: transfer tubing carrying said flow stream, said transfer tubing enhancing said separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases. 23. The process according to claim 20, wherein: said flow stream flows through transfer tubing having inner diameters of approximately 0.030 to 0.063 inches, corresponding to a flowrate in said flow stream of approximately 20 to 100 mL/min. 24. The process according to claim 20, wherein: collection of said incompressible liquid is enhanced by controlling the temperature in said flow stream to reduce aerosols in said collection chamber. 25. The process according to claim 20, further comprising: pressure in said flow stream is lowered by the steps of adding restrictors to said flow stream to slow the linear flow rate of said flow stream. 26. The process according to claim 20, wherein: said physical starting and stopping events result from a detection device, timing device, or manual signal in said flow stream. 27. The process according to claim 20, wherein: controlling the volume and direction of said flow stream through said valve system with an automatic or a manual switching valve system. 28. A process according to claim 20, wherein: said sample collection chamber is pressure controlled to prevent loss due to turbulence of said liquid phase. 29. The process according to claim 20, further comprising: discharging said flow stream tangentially to the inner wall of said collection chamber through said transfer tubing. 30. The process according to claim 20, further comprising: compressing a spring wire between said transfer tube and the inner wall of said collection chamber, thereby discharging said flow stream tangentially to said inner chamber wall. 31. The process according to claim 20, further comprising: automatically resetting said collection chamber to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing a collection liner housed within said collection chamber. 32. The process according to claim 20, further comprising: automatically resetting a plurality of collection chambers integrated as a cassette tray to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing each cassette tray during sample collection processes. 33. The process according to claim 20, wherein: said collection system repetitively collects similar fractions from different injected sample runs into similar said collection chambers. 34. A process for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising the steps of: controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; suppressing formation of aerosols within said separation processes; directing said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical starting event into a first collection cassette having one or more said collection chambers; retaining said liquid phase in said collection chamber and directing said gaseous phase to a waste stream; automatically resetting said collection chamber to an uncontaminated state; redirecting said flow stream through said valve system according to a physical stopping event into said waste stream or a second uncontaminated collection chamber. 35. A process according to claim 34, further comprising: automatically resetting said cassette to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing a first collection chamber liner from said cassette with a second uncontaminated collection chamber liner. 36. A process according to claim 34, wherein: automatically resetting said collection chamber to an uncontaminated state comprises the steps: disengaging said lid from said cassette; removing said liner with a robotic arm and placing said liner into a storage area; replacing said liner with said robotic arm with an uncontaminated liner; re-engaging said cassette with said moveable lid. 37. A process according to claim 34, wherein: said lid movement is controlled with a pneumatic actuator. 38. A process for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising the steps of: controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; suppressing formation of aerosols within said separation processes; automatically engaging a lid onto wells in a cassette tray; redirecting said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical starting event into wells in a cassette tray; retaining said liquid phase in said wells and venting said gaseous phase to a waste stream; automatically disengaging said lid from said wells; automatically resetting said cassette tray to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing said cassette tray; redirecting said flow stream through said valve system according to a physical stopping event into said waste stream or a second cassette tray; collecting a liquid phase sample from said flow stream by robotically moving said lid between said wells in said cassette tray. 39. A process according to claim 38, further comprising: automatically moving a cassette away from said lid after lid has disengaged from said cassette, at which time said collection chamber is robotically removing from said cassette and replaced with a second uncontaminated collection chamber. 40. A process according to claim 38, further comprising: replaceable liners housed in said cassette tray, said liners automatically reset to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing said liners within said cassette tray. 