A sheath including a hollow main body having a first end with an opening formed therein. The hollow main body is formed from a substantially nonmagnetic material and adapted to receive the permanent magnet material handling device. The sheath militates against an attraction of foreign material to the permanent magnet material handling device when not in use. Additionally, an assembly and method for storing the permanent magnet material handling device. The assembly includes a pedestal having a stationary base coupled to a plate selectively engaging the sheath. A movement sensor may be coupled to the plate to detect movement of the plate relative to the base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sheath for a permanent magnet material handling device having a permanent magnet and at least one pole, comprising: a hollow main body having an open first end and a second end, the hollow main body formed from a substantially nonmagnetic material and adapted to receive the pole of the permanent magnet material handling device and militate against an attraction of foreign material to the permanent magnet material handling device; wherein the sheath includes one of a first coupling member integrally formed with the hollow main body and at least one inclusion disposed within a wall of the hollow main body. 2. The sheath according to claim 1, wherein the second end has a thickness that militates against a magnetic attraction of foreign material when the hollow main body receives the permanent magnet. 3. The sheath according to claim 1, wherein the sheath includes the at least one inclusion disposed within a wall of the hollow main body, and further comprising at least one first coupling member coupled to the hollow main body. 4. The sheath according to claim 3, wherein the first coupling member is integrally formed with the hollow main body. 5. The sheath according to claim 3, wherein the first coupling member is a bushing. 6. The sheath according to claim 1, wherein the sheath includes the first coupling member integrally formed with the hollow main body and further comprising at least one inclusion disposed at the second end of the hollow main body and adapted to be attracted by the pole. 7. The sheath according to claim 6, wherein the at least one inclusion is disposed within a cavity formed in the second end of the hollow main body. 8. The sheath according to claim 7, wherein the at least one inclusion is removeably secured within the cavity by a cover plate. 9. The sheath according to claim 6, wherein the at least one inclusion is a ferrous inclusion. 10. An assembly for storing a permanent magnet material handling device having a permanent magnet and at least one pole, comprising: a sheath including a hollow main body having an open first end and a second end, the hollow main body formed from a substantially nonmagnetic material and adapted to receive the pole of the permanent magnet material handling device and militate against an attraction of foreign material to the permanent magnet material handling device; and a pedestal including a stationary base coupled to a plate, the plate selectively engaging the sheath; wherein the sheath includes one of a first coupling member integrally formed with the hollow main body and at least one inclusion disposed within a wall of the hollow main body. 11. The assembly according to claim 10, further comprising at least one movement facilitating member disposed between the plate and the base that enables a limited movement of the plate relative to the base. 12. The assembly according to claim 10, wherein the pedestal includes a movement sensor coupled to the plate and adapted to detect a movement of the plate relative to the base. 13. The assembly according to claim 12, further comprising an alarm in electrical communication with the movement sensor and configured to alert an operator upon detection of a predetermined movement by the movement sensor. 14. The assembly according to claim 10, wherein the sheath includes the at least one inclusion disposed within a wall of the hollow main body, the plate has at least one second coupling member coupled thereto, and the sheath has at least one first coupling member coupled thereto, the first coupling member cooperating with the second coupling member to militate against movement of the sheath when the sheath engages the pedestal. 15. The assembly according to claim 14, wherein the first coupling member is a bushing and the second coupling member is a pin. 16. A method for storing a permanent magnet material handling device, comprising the steps of: providing the permanent magnet material handling device having a permanent magnet and at least one pole; providing a sheath including a hollow main body having an open first end and a second end, the hollow main body formed from a substantially nonmagnetic material; inserting the permanent magnet material handling device into the sheath; and removing the permanent magnet material handling device from the sheath when employment of the permanent magnet material handling device is desired; wherein the sheath includes one of a first coupling member integrally formed with the hollow main body and at least one inclusion disposed within a wall of the hollow main body. 17. The method according to claim 16, further comprising the steps of: providing a pedestal having a stationary base coupled to a plate, the plate selectively engaging the sheath; disposing the sheath on the pedestal to place the sheath in engagement with the plate; and monitoring for foreign material on the permanent magnet material handling device during the insertion of the permanent magnet into the sheath. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the sheath includes the first coupling member integrally formed with the hollow main body, the first coupling member is a bushing, and the plate has at least one pin, wherein the step of disposing the sheath on the pedestal includes the step of: lowering the bushing onto the pin to engage the sheath with the plate. 19. The method according to claim 17, wherein the step of monitoring for foreign material includes the step of detecting a movement of the plate during the insertion of the permanent magnet into the sheath. 20. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of activating an alarm to alert an operator when the foreign material is detected on the permanent magnet material handling device. 