Method and apparatus for cleaning semiconductor devices and other workpieces using an aqueous rinse solution which is de-oxygenated by passing the aqueous rinse solution and a carrier gas through an osmotic membrane degasifier. A cleaning chamber is also disclosed for carrying out the cleaning method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for treating opposed major surfaces of a semiconductor device, comprising: providing a treatment chamber defining a cavity for receiving the semiconductor device; providing a carrier fluid; providing an aqueous solution; inserting the semiconductor device into the cavity; passing said aqueous solution and said carrier fluid through an osmotic membrane degasifier having a membrane so as to draw oxygen from said aqueous solution through said membrane to said carrier fluid and so as to introduce carrier fluid through said membrane, into said aqueous solution so as to control the pH of said aqueous solution; and contacting said semiconductor wafer with aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of drying the said semiconductor device by emptying the cavity of said aqueous fluid and passing heated fluid over the surfaces of said semiconductor device. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of drying said semiconductor device further comprises the step of spraying a rinse chemical on the major surfaces of said semiconductor device. 4. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of: providing a process cover with heater means for heating the process cover; providing a drying cover with means for directing a stream of drying gas; providing said treatment chamber with a device opening through which said semiconductor device is passed into and out of said cavity; covering said device opening with said process cover during treatment of said semiconductor device; and withdrawing said process cover from said device opening and covering said device opening with said drying cover during drying of said semiconductor device. 5. The method according to claim 4 further comprising the steps of monitoring the oxygen content of said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier. 6. The method according to claim 5 further comprising the step of controlling the flow of carrier fluid through said osmotic membrane degasifier in response to measurements of oxygen in said aqueous solution. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein said carrier fluid is comprised of a plurality of carrier fluid components which are mixed together to comprise said carrier fluid. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein said step of controlling the flow of carrier fluid comprises the step of individually controlling the flow of carrier fluid components mixed together and inputted into said osmotic membrane degasifier. 9. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of sonically exciting at least one of said treatment chamber and sid aqueous solution with sonic energy in one of said ultrasonic and said megahertz frequency ranges. 10. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of providing an overflow weir and filling said cavity with aqueous solution so as to immerse said semiconductor device with said aqueous solution and so as to overflow aqueous solution through said weir. 11. The method according to claim 10 further comprising the steps of providing a storage tank and coupling the overflow through said weir to said storage tank. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: providing a plenum defining a mixing chamber coupled to said treatment chamber; and the step of filling the cavity with said aqueous solution comprises the step of passing aqueous solution through said mixing chamber prior to entering said cavity. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing said carrier fluid with a carbon dioxide component. 14. The method according to claim 12 further comprising the step of withdrawing at least a portion of said aqueous solution from said receptacle in response to said counting of particles transferred from said semiconductor device to said aqueous solution. 15. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of counting particles transferred from said semiconductor device to said aqueous solution. 16. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of enclosing the cavity with a cover and introducing a gas blanket in said cavity. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein said gas blanket is at least partly comprised of carbon dioxide. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing acid into said treatment chamber so as to alter the pH of said aqueous solution. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said step of introducing acid comprises the step of dripping acid into said treatment chamber. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of providing a cover connected to said treatment chamber and providing acid drip apparatus connected to said cover for performing the step of dripping acid into said treatment chamber. 