This invention relates to methods and apparatus for making articles made of polyester, preferably polyethylene terephthalate (PET), having coated directly to at least one of the surfaces thereof one or more layers of thermoplastic material with good gas-barrier characteristics. In one preferred method and apparatus, preforms are injection molded, barrier-coated immediately thereafter, and remain on a mold portion for a time to speed cooling of the completed preform. Preferably the barrier-coated articles take the form of preforms coated by at least one layer of barrier material and the containers are blow-molded therefrom. Such barrier-coated containers are preferably of the type to hold beverages such as soft drinks, beer or juice. The preferred barrier materials have a lower permeability to oxygen and carbon dioxide than PET as well as key physical properties similar to PET. The materials and methods provide that the barrier layers have good adherence to PET, even during and after the blow molding process to form containers from preforms. Preferred barrier coating materials include poly(hydroxyamino ethers).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mold for injection molding multilayer preforms, comprising: a mandrel and first and second cavities, the mandrel being hollow and having a wall of substantially uniform thickness, and a coolant supply tube is disposed centrally within the hollow mandrel to supply coolant directly to a base end of the mandrel, the first cavity having a gate for injecting molten plastic, and a gate area of the first cavity has an insert of material having greater heat transfer properties than the majority of the cavity. 2. The mold of claim 1, wherein the cavity portions are longitudinally roughened by a roughener having a grit of between about 400-700. 3. The mold of claim 1, wherein the insert is formed of a high-conductivity alloy. 4. The mold of claim 1, wherein a hardened surface layer having a thickness between about 0.001 and 0.005 inches is formed on the insert, and the layer material is taken from the group comprising titanium nitride and hard chrome. 5. The mold of claim 1, including an air injection system disposed in at least the first mold cavity. 6. The mold of claim 5, wherein the air injection system comprises a source of air, an opening into the cavity, an air duct operating between the source of air and the opening, and a valve between the source of air and the opening. 7. The mold of claim 1, wherein a first void space is defined between the mandrel and the first mold cavity, and the cavity is sized and adapted so that the void space is thinner near a gate of the cavity than along a body of the cavity. 8. The mold of claim 1, wherein the base end of the mandrel comprises high heat transfer material. 9. A mold for injection molding preforms, comprising: a set of mandrels and at least a first set of cavities, each mandrel having a wall of substantially uniform thickness and a coolant supply tube disposed centrally within the mandrel to supply circulating coolant directly to the base end of the mandrel, and each cavity of the first set having a gate for injecting molten plastic and an upper region for molding a lip or threads, wherein at least the area surrounding each gate and the base end of each mandrel comprises a material having greater heat conductivity as compared to the upper region of the cavity. 10. The mold of claim 9, including an air injection system disposed in at least the first mold cavity. 11. The mold of claim 10, wherein the air injection system comprises a source of air, an opening into the cavity, an air duct operating between the source of air and the opening, and a valve between the source of air and the opening. 12. The mold of claim 9, wherein a first void space is defined between the mandrel and the first mold cavity, and the cavity is sized and adapted so that the void space is thinner near a gate of the cavity than along a body of the cavity. 13. The mold of claim 9, wherein the wall of the mandrel is about 0.1 to 0.3 inches thick. 14. The mold of claim 9, wherein the first set of cavities are cooled by circulating coolant. 15. The mold of claim 14, wherein the mandrels and first set of cavities have separate cooling systems. 16. The mold of claim 9, further comprising a second set of cavities. 17. The mold of claim 16, wherein the mandrels are affixed onto a rotating turntable. 