This invention relates to a multi-purpose end effector for a robotic arm that moves a workpiece through an automated, multi-station, manufacturing operation. The end effector is particularly useful in a gear manufacturing operation in which a gear piece is annealed, ground and tested to ensure it meets desired specifications. The relatively lightweight and compact end effector securely grips the workpiece during multi-directional movements, and provides a degree of softness when loading the normally non-rotating workpiece onto a continuously rotating chuck or tool. The end effector is secured to the robotic arm by a cross-member equipped with three different gripping implements. A central gripping device extends from the middle of the cross-member, a loading arm extends from one end of the cross-member, and an unloading arm extends from the other end. Each gripping implement includes pneumatically controlled gripping fingers for holding the gear pieces. Each loading and unloading arm has a gripping cylinder and a rotatable sleeve for supporting its gripping mechanism. The loading arm has an extension cylinder for extending its gripping mechanism with a degree of softness or resiliency that helps prevent binding when the normally non-rotating workpiece engages the rotating chuck or tool.
Claims I claim: 1. An end effector of a robotic arm for a multi-station manufacturing operation having a machine with a continuously rotating mount such as a chuck for gripping a workpiece, the workpiece having an outside surface and an inside surface that forms an interior opening, said end effector comprising: a cross-member having a middle section and first and second ends, said middle section of said cross-member being secured to the robotic arm; a central gripping device secured to and extending from said middle section of said cross-member, said central gripping device having a gripping mechanism adapted to selectively grip the workpiece; an unloading arm secured to and extending from said first end of said cross-member, said unloading arm having first and second ends, said first end of said unloading arm having a gripping cylinder, said second end having a rotatable sleeve with a gripping mechanism, said gripping mechanism being adapted to selectively grip the inside surface of the workpiece via said gripping cylinder, and the robotic arm being adapted to insert said gripping mechanism of said unloading arm into the opening in the workpiece when it is held by the continuously rotating mount of the machine; and, a loading arm secured to and extending from said second end of said cross-member, said loading arm having first and second ends, said first end having a gripping cylinder and an extension cylinder, said second end having a rotatable sleeve with a gripping mechanism, said gripping mechanism being adapted to selectively grip the inside surface of the workpiece via said gripping cylinder, said extension cylinder being adapted to selectively and smoothly extend said rotatable sleeve and the workpiece held by its said gripping mechanism into engagement with the continuously rotating mount of the machine. 2. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein said gripping cylinder of said loading arm has an associated piston and said extension cylinder has an associated piston, said extension cylinder being rigidly secured to said cross-member, and said gripping cylinder riding on said piston of said extension cylinder. 3. The end effector of claim 2, and wherein said extension cylinder and gripping cylinder of said loading arm straddle said cross-member to balance said loading arm on said cross-member. 4. The end effector of claim 3, and wherein said extension cylinder is in-line with said gripping cylinder of said loading arm. 5. The end effector of claim 4, and wherein said piston of said extension cylinder carries a hollow shaft, and said piston of said gripping cylinder carries a rod, and said rod passes through and extends from said hollow shaft to engage said gripping mechanism. 6. The end effector of claim 5, and wherein said rotatable sleeve is rotatably secured to said hollow shaft. 7. The end effector of claim 6, and wherein said loading arm has an anti-rotation plate that prevents axial rotation of its said pistons, hollow shaft and rod. 8. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein the robotic arm has a rotatable mount, said middle section of said cross-member being rigidly secured to said rotatable mount, said loading arm and said unloading arm being equidistant from said middle section, and wherein the robotic arm is adapted to align said unloading arm with said continuously rotating mount, and is further adapted to rotate its rotatable mount and said cross-member to align said loading arm with said continuously rotating mount. 9. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein said gripping mechanism of said central gripping device has fingers adapted to extend outwardly and retract inwardly to grip and release the outside surface of the workpiece. 10. The end effector of claim 1, and wherein the robotic arm is equipped with lines for selectively pressurizing said gripping cylinders of said loading and unloading arms, and wherein said gripping mechanisms of said loading and unloading arms includes a mechanical lever, said pressurization of said gripping cylinders and said mechanical levers combining to securely grip the workpiece. 11. A robotic arm for a multi-station manufacturing operation having a machine with a continuously rotating mount for gripping a workpiece, said workpiece having an outside surface and an inside surface that forms an interior opening, said robotic arm comprising: a robotic arm with a mounting bracket at its proximal end, and lines for supplying pressure; a cross-member having a middle section and two opposed ends, said middle section of said cross-member being secured to the robotic arm; a central gripping device secured to and extending from said middle section of said cross-member, said central gripping device having a gripping mechanism adapted to selectively grip the workpiece; an unloading arm secured to and extending from said first end of said cross-member, said unloading arm having first and second ends, said first end of said unloading arm having a gripping cylinder, said second end having a rotatable sleeve with a gripping mechanism, said gripping mechanism being adapted to selectively grip the inside surface of the workpiece via said gripping cylinder, and said robotic arm being adapted to insert said gripping mechanism of said unloading arm into the opening in the workpiece when it is held by the continuously rotating mount of the machine; and, a loading arm secured to and extending from said second end of said cross-member, said loading arm having first and second ends, said first end having a gripping cylinder and an extension cylinder, said second end having a rotatable sleeve with a gripping mechanism, said gripping mechanism being adapted to selectively grip the inside surface of the workpiece via said gripping cylinder, said extension cylinder being adapted to selectively and smoothly extend said rotatable sleeve and the workpiece held by its said gripping mechanism into engagement with the continuously rotating mount of the machine. 12. The robotic arm of claim 11, and wherein said gripping cylinder of said loading arm has an associated piston and said extension cylinder has an associated piston, said extension cylinder being rigidly secured to said cross-member, and said gripping cylinder riding on said piston of said extension cylinder. 13. The robotic arm of claim 12, and wherein said extension cylinder and gripping cylinder of said loading arm straddle said cross-member to balance said loading arm on said cross-member. 14. The robotic arm of claim 13, and wherein said extension cylinder is in-line with said gripping cylinder of said loading arm. 15. The robotic arm of claim 14, and wherein said piston of said extension cylinder carries a hollow shaft, and said piston of said gripping cylinder carries a rod, and said rod passes through and extends from said hollow shaft to engage said gripping mechanism. 16. The robotic arm of claim 15, and wherein said rotatable sleeve is rotatably secured to said hollow shaft. 17. The robotic arm of claim 16, and wherein said loading arm has an anti-rotation plate that prevents axial rotation of its said pistons, hollow shaft and rod. 18. The end effector of claim 11, and wherein said robotic arm has a rotatable mount, said middle section of said cross-member being rigidly secured to said rotatable mount, said loading arm and said unloading arm being equidistant from said middle section, and wherein said robotic arm is adapted to align said unloading arm with said continuously rotating mount, and is further adapted to rotate its rotatable mount and said cross-member to align said loading arm with said continuously rotating mount. 19. The robotic arm of claim 11, and wherein said gripping mechanism of said central gripping device has fingers adapted to extend outwardly and retract inwardly to grip and release the outside surface of the workpiece. 20. The robotic arm of claim 11, and wherein said robotic arm is equipped with lines for selectively pressurizing said gripping cylinders of said loading and unloading arms, and wherein said gripping mechanisms of said loading and unloading arms includes a mechanical lever, said pressurization of said gripping cylinders and said mechanical levers combining to securely grip the workpiece. 21. A multi-station manufacturing process for machining a number of workpieces having an outside surface and an inside surface that forms an interior opening, said workpieces including first, second and third workpieces, said multi-station process comprising the steps of: providing first, second and third stations, said second station having a machine with a continuously rotating mount for gripping one of the workpieces, and further providing a robotic arm equipped with an end effector having a gripping device, a loading arm and an unloading arm, each of said gripping device, loading arm and unloading arm having a gripping mechanism; using said robotic arm to align said gripping mechanism of said gripping device with and gripping the first workpiece; moving said robotic arm and the first workpiece to a first work station, aligning said loading arm with the second workpiece, gripping the inside surface of and removing the second workpiece, and aligning the first workpiece with said first work station and placing the first workpiece at said first station; performing a first manufacturing operation on the first workpiece at said first station; moving said robotic arm to said second station having said machine, using said robotic arm to insert said gripping mechanism of said unloading arm inside the opening of the third workpiece held by said continuously rotating mount, gripping the inside surface of the third workpiece, and moving the third workpiece away from said continuously rotating mount; aligning said loading arm and the second workpiece with said continuously rotating mount; extending said extension cylinder of said loading arm to smoothly engage the second workpiece with said continuously rotating mount; performing a second manufacturing operation on the second workpiece at said second station; and, moving said robotic arm to and placing the third workpiece at said third station. 22. A multi-station manufacturing process for machining a number of workpiece having an outside surface and an inside surface that forms an interior opening, said workpieces including first, second and third workpieces, said multi-station process comprising the steps of: providing first, second and third stations, said first station having a machine with a continuously rotating mount for gripping the workpiece, and further providing a robotic arm equipped with an end effector having a gripping device, a loading arm and an unloading arm, each of said gripping device, loading arm and unloading arm having a gripping mechanism; using said robotic arm to align said gripping mechanism of said loading arm with the first workpiece and gripping the inside surface of that workpiece; moving said robotic arm and the first workpiece to the first station and using said robotic arm to insert said gripping mechanism of said unloading arm inside the opening of the second workpiece held by said continuously rotating mount, gripping the inside surface of the second workpiece, and moving the said workpiece away from said continuously rotating mount; aligning said loading arm and the first workpiece with said continuously rotating mount; extending an extension cylinder of said loading arm to smoothly engage the first workpiece with said continuously rotating mount; performing a first manufacturing operation on the first workpiece at said first station; using said robotic arm to move the second workpiece away from said machine; moving said robotic arm and the second workpiece, using said robotic arm to align said gripping mechanism of said gripping device with the third workpiece at said second workstation and gripping that third workpiece, and placing said second workpiece at said second station; and, moving said robotic arm to and placing the third workpiece at said third station. 23. The multi-station manufacturing process of claim 22, and wherein a second manufacturing operation is performed on the workpiece at one of said second or third stations. 