A sputter pallet loading and unloading device includes in one embodiment a spindle that rotates the pallet while an arm is engaged with the spring in the pallet to open and close the spring. In another embodiment, the spindle is located adjacent an air track that moves the disk substrate over a cushion of air to the loading area of the pallet. The air pressure under the disk substrate is increased to raise the disk substrate into the loading area. Once raised into the loading area, the spring is closed, e.g., by rotating the pallet in the opposite direction. The pallet and air-track are at a small angle to allow the substrate to slide into the correct position. The simplicity of operation leads to a reduced cost and a higher throughput for this device compared to a robotic loader.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for loading and unloading a disk substrate into a pallet, said pallet having a plurality of loading areas and a spring extending into each of said loading areas, said spring being biased to hold a disk substrate in said loading area, said apparatus comprising: a spindle upon which said pallet to be loaded is held, said spindle rotating said pallet in a first direction and a second direction opposite said first direction; an actuator arm that movably engages and disengages a spring in a loading area on said pallet, said actuator arm moves to engage said spring and said spindle rotates said pallet in said first direction to open said spring, said spindle rotates in said second direction with said actuator arm engaged with said spring to close said spring; and a disk substrate moving device positioned near said loading area on said pallet; wherein during loading said disk substrate moving device moves a disk substrate near said loading area, said actuator arm engages said spring, said spindle rotates said pallet in said first direction to open said spring, said disk substrate is moved into said loading area, and said spindle rotates said pallet in said second direction to close said spring, and said actuator arm disengages said spring. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a pallet indexing sensor for sensing the position of said pallet. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a displacement sensor located proximate to said loading area of said pallet, said displacement sensor sensing the position of said disk substrate when said disk substrate is moved into said loading area. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a disk substrate lifting mechanism. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said disk substrate moving device comprises an air track, said air track having a plurality of apertures through which air is provided under said disk substrate and said disk substrate lifting mechanism is an increase in the pressure of said air in said air track to move said disk into said loading area. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said disk substrate moving device comprises an air track, said air track having a plurality of apertures through which air is provided under said disk substrate and said disk substrate lifting mechanism an elevating section of said air track. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said disk substrate lifting mechanism is said actuator arm bending said spring out of a plane defined by said pallet and toward said disk substrate. 