The present invention pertains to an apparatus for holding cells. The apparatus comprises a mechanism for incubating cells having a dynamically controlled environment in which the cells are grown, which are maintained in a desired condition and in which cells can be examined while the environment is dynamically controlled and maintained in the desired condition. The apparatus also comprises a mechanism for determining the state of the cells. The determining mechanism is in communication with the incubating mechanism. The present invention pertains to a method for holding cells. The method comprises the steps of incubating the cells in a dynamically controlled environment which is maintained in a desired condition and in which the cells can be examined while the environment is dynamically controlled and maintained in the desired condition. Additionally, there is the step of determining the state of the cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for developing desired processes for control of a cell comprising: a housing having a biochamber, the biochamber incubating a plurality of cells having a dynamically controlled closed environment in which the cells are grown, which is maintained in a desired condition and in which each individual cell of the plurality of cells can be individually examined over time while the environment is dynamically controlled and maintained in the desired condition, the biochamber including an environment controlling mechanism for dynamically controlling the closed environment of the biochamber; a robotic arm for dispensing and aspirating different material to each cell of the plurality of cells while the cells are disposed in the dynamically closed environment in the biochamber; and means a protein/nutrient analysis system for determining which materials enhance the desired process in regard to each cell of the plurality of cells while the cells are disposed in the dynamically closed environment in the biochamber. 2. An apparatus as described in claim 1 including an imaging mechanism which images each cell of the plurality of cells while the cells are disposed in the dynamically closed environment in the biochamber. 3. An apparatus as described in claim 2 wherein the protein/nutrient analysis system correlates whether each cell identified by the imaging mechanism is in a particular metabolic process. 4. An apparatus as described in claim 3 including means for determining which materials enhance the desired process in regard to each cell of the plurality of cells while the cells are disposed in the dynamically closed environment in the biochamber that includes the protein/nutrient analysis system and the imaging mechanism. 5. An apparatus as described in claim 4 wherein the biochamber includes a first well and a second well in which a first cell and a second cell are disposed, respectively, and wherein the determining means includes a diagnostic mechanism in communication with the robotic arm for ascertaining the occurrence of a pre-determined biological event in the first and second wells. 6. An apparatus as described in claim 5 wherein the biological event includes growth, differentiation, expression or the secretion of a protein or hormone. 7. An apparatus as described in claim 6 wherein the robotic arm automatically dispenses or aspirates media to the first and second wells. 8. An apparatus as described in claim 7 wherein the determining means includes the imaging mechanism which has a field and adjusts the position of the field to allow for cell movement while centering the cell in the field. 9. An apparatus as described in claim 8 wherein the determining means identifies trends and parameters corresponding with a time before doubling of the cell. 10. An apparatus as described in claim 9 wherein the determining means records cellular events in time while the robotic arm manipulates the environment about the cell. 11. An apparatus as described in claim 10 wherein the determining means screens different medias for what keeps the cells alive or dividing and then causes the robotic mechanism to add different types of serum to see what would supplement the growth of the cells. 12. An apparatus as described in claim 11 wherein the determining means records information relevant to direct growth of a cell or diagnose phenotypic outcome of a division of a cell. 13. An apparatus as described in claim 12 wherein the environment controlling mechanism includes a heating mechanism in thermal communication with the biochamber to maintain the cells in the first and second wells at a desired temperature. 14. An apparatus as described in claim 4 wherein the determining means includes an imaging mechanism has a field and adjusts the position of the field to allow for cell movement while centering the cell in the field. 15. An apparatus as described in claim 4 wherein the determining means identifies trends and parameters corresponding with a time before doubling of the cell. 16. An apparatus as described in claim 4 wherein the determining means records cellular events in time while the robotic arm manipulates the environment about the cell. 17. An apparatus as described in claim 16 wherein the determining means records information relevant to direct growth of a cell or diagnose phenotypic outcome of a division of a cell. 18. An apparatus as described in claim 4 wherein the determining means screens different medias for what keeps the cells alive or dividing and then causes the robotic mechanism to add different types of serum to see what would supplement the growth of the cells. 