A method is disclosed for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples. The method includes the steps of injecting a first non-biological polymer sample into a mobile-phase of a liquid chromatography system, chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected first sample from other sample components thereof in a chromatographic column, detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the first sample, injecting a second non-biological polymer sample into the mobile-phase of the liquid chromatography system while advancing the first sample to the chromatographic column, chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected second sample from other sample components thereof, and detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the second sample.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising (a) injecting a first non-biological polymer sample into a mobile-phase of a liquid chromatography system, (b) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected first sample from other sample components thereof in a chromatographic column, (c) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the first sample, (d) injecting a second non-biological polymer sample into the mobile-phase of the liquid chromatography system while advancing the first sample to the chromatographic column, (e) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected second sample from other sample components thereof, and (f) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the second sample. 2. A method for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising (a) injecting a first non-biological polymer sample into a mobile-phase of a liquid chromatography system, (b) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected first sample from other sample components thereof in a chromatographic column, (c) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the first sample, (d) injecting a second non-biological polymer sample into the mobile-phase of the liquid chromatography system, (e) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected second sample from other sample components thereof, and (f) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the second sample, the second polymer sample being injected into the mobile phase such that at least one component from the first sample and at least one component from the second sample simultaneously reside in a detection cavity of the detector. 3. A method for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising (a) injecting a first non-biological polymer sample into a mobile-phase of a liquid chromatography system, (b) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected first sample from other sample components thereof in a chromatographic column, (c) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the first sample, (d) injecting a second non-biological polymer sample into the mobile-phase of the liquid chromatography system while (i) advancing the first sample to the chromatographic column, while (ii) separating at least one sample component of the injected first sample from other sample components thereof, or while (iii) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the first sample, (e) chromatographically separating at least one sample component of the injected second sample from other sample components thereof, and (f) detecting at least one property of the separated sample component of the second sample, each of the first and second polymer samples being members of a library of polymerization product mixtures. 4. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 further comprising repeating steps (a) through (f) to detect a property of at least eight different polymer samples or of a component thereof. 5. The method of claims 1 or 3 wherein at least one component from the first sample and at least one component from the second sample simultaneously reside in a detection cavity of the detector. 6. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the property of the separated sample components is detected with an evaporative light-scattering detector. 7. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the weight-average molecular weight of the separated sample components is determined based on a property detected with a detector insensitive to sample components having a weight-average molecular weight of less than about 1000. 8. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the weight-average molecular weight of the separated sample components is determined based on the scattered light detected with an evaporative light-scattering detector. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein the library of polymerization product mixtures are simultaneously synthesized in a parallel polymerization reactor. 10. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the separation medium comprises stationary-phase media for size exclusion chromatography. 11. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media for gel permeation chromatography. 12. The method of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the chromatographic column defines a separation cavity having an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1. 