A wafer is carried on a blade supported on robotic arms. A plurality of guide clamps both move the wafer into a desired position on the blade and clamp the wafer in place during transport by the arms. The clamps are reciprocally mounted on the blade and are connected with and driven by a rotatable hub carried on the blade and rotated by the movement of the arms. Both the blade and the clamps include beveled surfaces that guide the wafer into place. The operation of the clamps is controlled by a laser that detects when the wafer is out of place or tilted on the blade.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for holding and transferring as semiconductor wafer, comprising: robotic arm means for transferring said wafer: a blade attached to said arm means for supporting and holding said wafer thereon; clamp means shiftably mounted on said blade for moving said wafer into a desired position on said blade and for clamping said wafer on said blade, said clamp means includes a plurality of clamps each including a beveled surface engaging an upper peripheral edge and imposing a lateral force on said wafer causing said wafer to move toward said desired position; and means for driving said clamp means between a retracted position, and a closed, clamping position, said drive means includes a rotatable hub carried on said blade, and each of said clamps is connected with driven by said hub. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said hub is connected with and driven to rotate by said robotic arm means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said hub includes a plurality cam surfaces respectively engaging said clamps. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said clamps includes an elongated arm extending radially inward toward said hub, and a pin connecting said arm to said hub. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, including means for normally biasing each of said clamps toward said retracted position. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, including a laser detection means for detecting whether said wafer is in said desired position thereof on said blade. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said clamps includes a pin receivable within an arcuate slot in said hub providing a camming action on said clamp. 8. Apparatus for holding and transporting a semiconductor wafer, comprising: a blade for supporting said wafer thereon; a plurality of guide clamps reciprocally mounted on said blade at locations spaced around the periphery of said wafer, each of said guide clamps includes a first surface for engaging and moving said wafer toward said desired position, and a second surface overlying the top surface of said wafer for clamping said wafer in said desired position; and means for moving said guide clamps into engagement with said wafer to move said wafer into a desired position on said blade, said means including a central drive hub rotatably mounted on said blade, and each of said clamps is connected to and driven to reciprocate by said hub. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said blade includes a beveled edge for guiding said wafer into said desired position; and each of said clamps includes a beveled surface for engaging said wafer and cooperating with said beveled surface on said blade to guide said wafer into said desired position. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, including means for detecting whether said wafer is in said desired position. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, including robotic arm means connected with said blade for transporting said wafer, and wherein said clamps are driven by said arm means. 