The invention discloses an evaluation method for the quality of measuring sensors of an autonomous mobile system. To this end, the plurality of sensors per cell that have surveyed this cell when surveying obstacles for producing a cellularly structured environment map are stored and it is identifiably indicated thereto which sensors have classified this cell in which way. For example, a occupied probability and a free probability is [sic] employed for the classification. The measuring quality is determined with reference to the results that the individual sensors have supplied or the respective cell. The extent to which the classifications of the individual sensors confirm one another is evaluated thereto. Sensors whose measured results deviate from a great number of other sensors are classified as faulty. In order to prevent dynamic objects in the environment from falsifying the quality statement, the system can implement a self-test in that it turns around its own axis within a static but not necessarily known environment and subsequently undertakes the evaluation of the sensors.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for evaluating a measuring quality of a distance-measuring sensor at an autonomous mobile system, comprising the steps of: measuring obstacles in environs of the autonomous mobile system by a plurality of distance-measuring sensors located at the autonomous mobile system; characterizing cells of a cellularly structured environment map corresponding in position with the environs with respect to their occupancy state with obstacles on the basis of the measured results; noting which sensors have measured a respective cell for a cell identifiable per measuring sensor; evaluating a measuring quality of a first measuring sensor at least with respect to a first cell to see how many other measuring sensors arrive at a same characterization of an occupancy state with respect to an occupancy state of a first cell, evaluating the measuring quality of the first sensor all the greater the more other sensors confirm its characterization. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: characterizing an occupancy state of a respective cell according to occupied and free probability, assigning of the respective probabilities being based on how many measuring sensors have measured an obstacle or, respectively, no obstacle there. 3. A method for evaluating a measuring quality of a distance-measuring sensor at an autonomous mobile system, comprising the steps of: measuring obstacles in environs of the autonomous mobile system by a plurality of distance-measuring sensors located at the autonomous mobile system; characterizing cells of a cellularly structured environment map corresponding in position with the environs with respect to their occupancy state with obstacles on the basis of the measured results; noting which sensors have measured a respective cell for a cell identifiable per measuring sensor; evaluating a measuring quality of a first measuring sensor at least with respect to a first cell to see how many other measuring sensors arrive at a same characterization of an occupancy state with respect to an occupancy state of a first cell, evaluating the measuring quality of the first sensor all the greater the more of other sensors confirm its characterization; evaluating the measuring quality of a measuring sensor S.sub.j as follows as a probability P for the sensor condition: with random variables Y and statuses OK and KO for functional and malfunctioning, said statuses depending on the consistency K of the cells {C} evaluated up to the point in time t and the consistency represents a criterion for an extent to which characterization of a measuring sensor S.sub.j coincides with characterizations of other measuring sensors with respect to the map cell C.sub.i under consideration. 4. A method according to claim 3, further comprising the step of: assigning a consistency measure according to: for a measuring sensor and the probability for the sensor condition is updated according to: ##EQU5## 5. A method according to claim 4, further comprising the step of: calculating the probability P(S.sub.j.vertline.{K}.sub.j) dependent of the occupation state characterized by the measuring sensor as right P.sub.ok or wrong P.sub.ko, as: for a cell characterized as occupied OCC and as: for a cell characterized as FREE, with M as plurality of implemented measurements. 6. A method according to claim 5, further comprising the steps of: determining the consistency measure at least as: setting how great an effect the evaluation of a map cell has on the sensor evaluation with the scale factor .alpha.. 7. A method according to claim 6, further comprising the step of: selecting different values for a dependent on the characterization of the cell under consideration by the measuring sensor to be evaluated, and the following are valid for characterization as 8. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: evaluating only a specific plurality of cells as evaluation cells, said evaluation cells being carried along by the autonomous mobile system given a movement in a form of an evaluation window of the environs, and evaluating evaluation cells that are located immediately at an edge of the evaluation window. 9. A method for evaluating a measuring quality of a distance-measuring sensor at an autonomous mobile system, comprising the steps of: measuring obstacles in environs of the autonomous mobile system by a plurality of distance-measuring sensors located at the autonomous mobile system; characterizing cells of a cellularly structured environment map corresponding in position with the environs with respect to their occupancy state with obstacles on the basis of the measured results; noting which sensors have measured a respective cell for a cell identifiable per measuring sensor; evaluating a measuring quality of a first measuring sensor at least with respect to a first cell to see how many other measuring sensors arrive at a same characterization of an occupancy state with respect to an occupancy state of a first cell, evaluating the measuring quality of the first sensor all the greater the more of other sensors confirm its characterization; implementing a self-test including turning the autonomous mobile unit turns until all measuring sensors have measured at least one obstacle, and determining the measuring quality of the individual measuring sensors on the basis of the evaluation of a plurality of evaluation cells. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein one of ultrasound and optical measuring sensors are employed. 