A programmable toy interface for electrical connection with and control of a toy structure having at least one electrically-powered output device, such as a motor, light or sound output, and that is adapted to communicate with a computer having a programmable toy control and identification program is provided. The interface includes a memory having an identification code, an RF modem adapted to receive command and identification code signals from at least the computer and for transmitting data to at least one of the computer and a second interface, a controller in communication with the memory and the modem, adapted to process data stored in the memory for transmission via the modem; and a power supply that supplies electrical power to the controller. A system including one or more such computers and one or more such interfaces is provided whereby multiple interfaces can communicate with each other and multiple computers can transmit data at the same RF frequency without interference from one another.
Claims We claim: 1. A programmable toy interface for controlling a toy structure having at least one electrically-powered output device adapted to communicate with a computer having a programmable toy control and an identification program, the interface comprising: a memory having an identification data portion that stores interface identification data specific to the toy structure; a toy controller that executes the toy control program; and a power supply that supplies electrical power to the controller. 2. The interface of claim 1, further including a transceiver that receives signals from at least the computer and transmits those signals to at least one of the memory for storage and the controller for processing. 3. The interface of claim 2, wherein the transceiver is a radio frequency modem. 4. The interface of claim 1 further including a communications component for receiving signals generated by at least the computer, and transmitting those signals to at least one of the memory for storage, and the controller for processing. 5. The interface of claim 1, wherein the interface identification data is generated by the computer. 6. The interface of claim 1, wherein the interface identification data is generated by one of the computer and another programmable interface connected to another toy structure. 7. The interface of claim 2, wherein the interface is further adapted to communicate with one or more interfaces, each of the interfaces having a memory that stores unique, user-definable interface identification data, by addressing the interfaces by their stored identification data. 8. The interface of claim 7, wherein the memory further includes a program memory portion for storing therein at least one program or command for processing by the controller. 9. The interface of claim 8, wherein the interface is adapted to transmit a command or a program stored in the memory to a second interface for controlling the second interface. 10. The interface of claim 9, further including at least one input and input circuitry for electrically connecting thereto an input device connected to the toy structure. 11. The interface of claim 1, wherein the power supply is further adapted to selectively supply electrical power to the output device of the toy structure in response to a signal from the controller. 12. The interface of claim 11, further including at least one output capable of supplying a direct current voltage in the range of about 3 volts to about 12 volts. 13. A programmable toy entertainment system, comprising: a first computer loaded with a control, program-development program which generates control and command signals and interface identification data; and a first addressable toy unit adapted to communicate with the computer, including (a) a first programmable toy interface having a transceiver for communicating with the computer, a controller that executes the control and command signals, a memory configured to store the interface identification data, wherein the interface identification data is specific to the first addressable toy unit, a power supply that supplies electrical power to the controller and transceiver, and at least one electric power-supplying, output port; and (b) a first toy structure electrically connected to the interface and capable of producing, in response to at least one output signal from the interface, at least one controlled electric power output. 14. The system of claim 13, further including a communications link that permits data transmission between the first computer and the first addressable toy. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the first computer further includes a computer transceiver for communicating commands and data to and from the computer and the first interface further includes an interface transceiver. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the communication link is wireless. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the communication link is wired. 18. The system of claim 13, further including a second programmable toy unit with a second programmable toy interface having a second interface transceiver and that is adapted to communicate with the first interface and the first computer. 19. The system of claim 13, further including a second computer and a second addressable toy unit associated with the second computer, the second computer being loaded with a toy control, program-development, software program and adapted to output control and command signals and programs for controlling, programming and communicating with the first toy interface and for producing interface identification data specific to the second addressable toy unit for transmission to and storage by the second addressable toy unit; wherein the first and second computers are adapted to communicate radio frequency commands without interference from each other. 20. A programmable toy interface for electrical connection with and control of a toy structure having at least one electrically-powered output device, and that is adapted to communicate with a computer having a programmable toy control and identification program, the interface comprising: a memory having an identification code portion for storing an interface identification code specific to the toy structure and a program portion for storing at least one toy control program that is transmitted thereto by one of the computer and another programmable interface connected to another toy structure; a radio frequency modem adapted to receive command and interface identification code signals from at least the computer and for transmitting data to at least one of the computer and a second interface; a controller in communication with the memory and the modem for executing the toy control program, and further adapted to process data stored in the memory for transmission via the modem; and a power supply that supplies electrical power to the controller and for selectively supplying electrical output power in the range of 2 to 9 volts dc to the output device. 21. The interface of claim 1, wherein the interface identification data is user-definable. 22. The interface of claim 1, wherein the at least one electrically-powered output device is one of: a motor, light, and a sound output. 23. The interface of claim 1, wherein the memory includes a memory location for storing the toy control program, and wherein the toy control program is downloaded to the toy control program memory location from the computer. 24. The interface of claim 1, wherein the interface includes a modem, and wherein the toy control program is transmitted by the computer to the interface modem and executed by the toy controller. 25. The interface of claim 1, wherein the toy controller receives user-definable commands. 26. The interface of claim 1, wherein the toy control program is based on icon-based programming, wherein an icon represents a preprogrammed toy control program. 27. The interface of claim 1, wherein the user-definable identification data comprises a numeric code. 28. The system of claim 13, wherein the interface identification data is user-definable. 29. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one controlled electric power output is one of: motion, light, and sound. 30. The system of claim 18, wherein the identification data enables exclusive communications between the first and second toy units. 31. The system of claim 30, including a plurality of toy units, wherein each of the plurality of toy units includes an interface and a transceiver, each toy unit being configured to communicate with each of the other of the plurality of toy units through respective transceivers, and each respective interface is identified with unique interface identification data. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the unique, identification data distinguishes each toy unit from other toy units in the plurality of toy units. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein the unique interface identification data enables communications between two toy units of the plurality of units to the exclusion of other units. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein toy units with interfaces having selected interface identification data values are configured to communicate with each other to the exclusion of other toy units having interfaces associated with other interface identification data values. 35. The system of claim 31, wherein an interface of a selected toy unit broadcasts a command to interfaces of all other toy units of the plurality of toy units. 36. The system of claim 31, wherein multiple toy units with respective computers are within the same transmission range, wherein each computer is configured, prior to transmission, to poll airwaves within the transmission range for presence of signals from other computers. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein a computer, ready for transmission, detects signals from other computers and enters a standby mode before transmitting data to the respective interface. 38. The system or claim 36, wherein a computer, ready for transmission, detects an absence of signals from other computers and transmits data to the respective interface. 39. The interface of claim 20, wherein the interface identification data is programmer-definable. 40. The interface of claim 20, wherein the at least one electrically-powered output device is one of a motor, light, and a sound output. 