This invention pertains to a polishing apparatus for polishing a semiconductor wafer. The apparatus comprises a storage section that is capable of receiving a workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece. The polishing unit that polishes the workpiece includes a primary polishing table and a secondary polishing table, wherein the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table is constructed to be arranged such that at least a portion of a surface of the workpiece being polished by the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table extends beyond an edge of the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table. Also provided is a film thickness measuring device, which measures the thickness of a film formed on a polished workpiece while the polished workpiece is held by a top ring above a pusher.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A polishing apparatus comprising: a storage section for storing a workpiece to be polished; at least two processing lines extending from said storage section; a temporary storage section to be shared by said at least two processing lines such that the workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece are each capable of being received within the temporary storage section; and at least one robotic device for transferring workpieces along said at least two processing lines. 2. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said at least two processing lines is provided with a polishing unit and a cleaning unit, said temporary storage section is disposed between said storage section and said polishing units, and said at least one robotic device is disposed at each of said at least two processing lines. 3. The polishing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said at least two polishing lines are arranged substantially in parallel with one another. 4. The polishing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 5. The polishing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 6. The polishing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said wet station includes nozzles arranged to spray a rinse solution onto top and bottom surfaces of the polished workpiece. 7. The polishing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said polishing unit includes a turntable, a top ring device, and a workpiece pusher to facilitate transfer of a workpiece to and from said top ring device. 8. The polishing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said top ring device includes two top rings each for receiving a respective workpiece from said workpiece pusher and pressing the respective workpiece against said turntable, and also includes a swing arm to rotatably support said top rings in a horizontal plane. 9. The polishing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said polishing unit includes a film thickness measuring device for remotely measuring thickness of a film formed on a workpiece being held by said top ring device. 10. The polishing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said polishing unit includes a buffing table having a buffing disk. 11. The polishing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 12. The polishing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the polished workpiece to prevent drying of the polished workpiece. 13. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 14. The polishing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 15. The polishing apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said wet station includes nozzles arranged to spray a rinsing solution onto top and bottom surfaces of the polished workpiece. 16. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 17. The polishing apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the polished workpiece to prevent drying of the polished workpiece. 18. A polishing apparatus comprising: a storage section for storing a workpiece disposed at one end of an installation floor space; two polishing units disposed at an opposite end of the installation floor space; and a transport device for transferring workpieces between said storage section and said two polishing units, wherein said transport device includes a temporary storage section and at least one robotic device for transferring the workpieces between said polishing units and the temporary storage section such that a workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece are each capable of being received within the temporary storage section. 19. The polishing apparatus according to claim 18, and further comprising at least two cleaning units for cleaning workpieces that have been polished in said two polishing units, wherein each of said two polishing units includes a turntable, a top ring device and a workpiece pusher, and wherein a first of said two polishing units and a first of said at least two cleaning units are positioned as a first group symmetrically across a center line extending from the one end of the installation floor space to the opposite end of the installation floor space with respect to a second of said two polishing units and a second of said at least two cleaning units as a second group. 20. The polishing apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 21. The polishing apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station and said lower level comprises a wet station. 22. The polishing apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said wet station includes nozzles arranged to spray a rinsing solution onto top and bottom surfaces of the polished workpiece. 23. The polishing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 24. The polishing apparatus according to claim 23, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station and said lower level comprises a wet station. 25. The polishing apparatus according to claim 24, wherein said wet station includes nozzles arranged to spray a rinsing solution onto top and bottom surfaces of the polished workpiece. 26. A polishing apparatus for polishing a circular workpiece, held by a holder device, by pressing a surface of the workpiece against a polishing surface of a circular polishing tool, said polishing apparatus comprising: a primary polishing table including a polishing surface having a radius that is larger than a diameter of the workpiece; and a secondary polishing table including a polishing surface having a radius that is smaller than the diameter of the workpiece but larger than a radius of the workpiece, wherein said polishing surface of said secondary polishing table is constructed to be arranged such that at least a portion of a surface of the workpiece being polished by said polishing surface of said secondary polishing table extends beyond an edge of said polishing surface of said secondary polishing table. 27. The polishing apparatus according to claim 26, and further comprising a holder device to transport the workpiece to said primary polishing table and to said secondary polishing table. 28. The polishing apparatus according to claim 26, wherein said polishing surface of said secondary polishing table is further constructed such that a center of the surface of the workpiece being polished remains on said polishing surface of said secondary polishing table during polishing of the surface of the workpiece, and such that a distance between the center of the surface of the workpiece being polished and an edge portion of said polishing surface of said secondary polishing table is less than the radius of the workpiece. 29. A method of polishing a workpiece, comprising: primarly polishing a workpiece by moving the workpiece relative to a primary polishing table; and secondarily polishing said workpiece by moving said workpiece relative to a secondary polishing table, wherein during the secondary polishing at least a portion of a surface of said workpiece extends beyond an edge of said secondary polishing table. 30. The method according to claim 29, and further comprising holding said workpiece by a top ring during the primary polishing and the secondary polishing. 31. A polishing apparatus comprising: a top ring for holding a workpiece; a pusher for receiving a polished workpiece from said top ring; and a film thickness measuring device for measuring, while said top ring is positioned above said pusher, a thickness of a film formed on a polished workpiece held by said top ring. 32. The polishing apparatus according to claim 31, and further comprising a polishing table having a polishing surface for polishing the workpiece. 33. A method of fabricating a semiconductor wafer, comprising: polishing a wafer by moving a polishing table relative to a top ring holding the wafer; transferring the polished wafer, while being held by said top ring, from said polishing table to a position above a pusher that is to receive the polished wafer from said top ring; and while said top ring holds the polished wafer above said pusher, measuring a thickness of a film formed on the polished wafer. 34. The method according to claim 33, and further comprising adjusting a polishing time for a next wafer to be polished by operating a feedback control device. 35. The method according to claim 34, wherein the adjusting of the polishing time of the next wafer is based on the measured film thickness. 36. A polishing apparatus comprising; a temporary storage station that is capable of receiving a workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece; and at least two robots for transferring a workpiece, wherein said temporary storage station is positioned such that upon transferring the workpiece from one of said at least two robots to another of said at least two robots the workpiece is received within said temporary storage station. 37. The polishing apparatus according to claim 36, and further comprising a polishing unit for polishing a workpiece. 38. The polishing apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 39. The polishing apparatus according to claim 38, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the polished workpiece to prevent drying of the polished workpiece. 40. The polishing apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 41. The polishing apparatus according to claim 40, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 42. The polishing apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said polishing unit includes a polishing table for providing a polishing surface, and a top ring for holding the workpiece and pressing the workpiece against the polishing surface. 43. The polishing apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said polishing unit includes a plurality of polishing tables. 44. The polishing apparatus according to claim 37, wherein said polishing unit is for polishing a semiconductor wafer. 45. The polishing apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 46. The polishing apparatus according to claim 45, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the workpiece to prevent drying of the polished workpiece. 47. The polishing apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 48. The polishing apparatus according to claim 47, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 49. The polishing apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said polishing unit includes a polishing table for providing a polishing surface, and a top ring for holding the workpiece and pressing the workpiece against the polishing surface. 50. The polishing apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said polishing unit includes a plurality of polishing tables. 51. The polishing apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said polishing unit is for polishing a semiconductor wafer. 52. A polishing apparatus comprising: a loading/unloading unit for loading and/or unloading a workpiece; a polishing unit for polishing a workpiece; a cleaning section for cleaning a polished workpiece; and a temporary storage station, provided in said cleaning section, for receiving a workpiece to be transferred to said polishing unit from said loading/unloading unit and for receiving a polished workpiece to be transferred from said polishing unit to said loading/unloading unit. 53. The polishing apparatus according to claim 52, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving in a dry state the workpiece from said loading/unloading unit and a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 54. The polishing apparatus according to claim 53, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the workpiece to prevent drying of the polished workpiece. 55. The polishing apparatus according to claim 52, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive the workpiece from said loading/unloading unit and a lower level to receive the polished workpiece. 56. The polishing apparatus according to claim 55, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving in a dry state the workpiece from said loading/unloading unit and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished workpiece in a wet state. 57. The polishing apparatus according to claim 52, wherein said polishing unit includes a polishing table for providing a polishing surface, and a top ring for holding the workpiece and pressing the workpiece against the polishing surface. 58. The polishing apparatus according to claim 52, wherein said polishing unit includes a plurality of polishing tables. 59. The polishing apparatus according to claim 52, wherein said polishing unit is for polishing a semiconductor wafer. 60. A polishing apparatus comprising: a cleaning section for cleaning a polished workpiece, with said cleaning section including cleaning units; and a temporary storage station for receiving a workpiece which has been polished and then cleaned by at least one of said cleaning units. 61. The polishing apparatus according to claim 60, and further comprising a polishing unit for polishing a workpiece. 62. The polishing apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving a dry workpiece to be polished and a wet station for receiving the polished and cleaned workpiece in a wet state. 63. The polishing apparatus according to claim 62, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the workpiece to prevent drying of the polished and cleaned workpiece. 64. The polishing apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive a workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished and cleaned workpiece. 65. The polishing apparatus according to claim 64, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished and cleaned workpiece in a wet state. 66. The polishing apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said polishing unit includes a polishing table for providing a polishing surface, and a top ring for holding the workpiece and pressing the workpiece against the polishing surface. 67. The polishing apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said polishing unit includes a plurality of polishing tables. 68. The polishing apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said polishing unit is for polishing a semiconductor wafer. 69. The polishing apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said temporary storage station includes a dry station for receiving a dry workpiece to be polished and a wet station for receiving the polished and cleaned workpiece in a wet state. 70. The polishing apparatus according to claim 69, wherein said wet station has a spray nozzle for rinsing the polished and cleaned workpiece to prevent drying of the polished and cleaned workpiece. 71. The polishing apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said temporary storage section includes an upper level to receive a workpiece to be polished and a lower level to receive the polished and cleaned workpiece. 72. The polishing apparatus according to claim 71, wherein said upper level comprises a dry station for receiving the workpiece to be polished in a dry state and said lower level comprises a wet station for receiving the polished and cleaned workpiece in a wet state. 73. The polishing apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said polishing unit includes a polishing table for providing a polishing surface, and a top ring for holding the workpiece and pressing the workpiece against the polishing surface. 74. The polishing apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said polishing unit includes a plurality of polishing tables. 75. The polishing apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said polishing unit is for polishing a semiconductor wafer. 76. A polishing apparatus comprising: at least one polishing surface; a first temporary storage station for receiving a workpiece to be polished; a second temporary storage station for receiving a polished workpiece; and at least one robot for transferring the workpiece to be polished to said first temporary storage station or transferring the polished workpiece to said second temporary storage station. 77. The polishing apparatus according to claim 76, further comprising at least one polishing table that is to provide said at least one polishing surface. 78. The polishing apparatus according to claim 76, further comprising a top ring holding the workpiece to be polished during a polishing operation. 79. The polishing apparatus according to claim 78, further comprising a pusher for transferring the workpiece to be polished to said top ring and for receiving the polished workpiece from said top ring. 80. The polishing apparatus according to claim 79, further comprising at least one additional robot for transferring the workpiece to be polished between said pusher and said first temporary storage station or transferring the polished workpiece between said pusher and said second temporary storage station. 81. The polishing apparatus according to claim 76, further comprising structure to rinse the polished workpiece in said second temporary storage station with a rinsing liquid. 82. The polishing apparatus according to claim 81, wherein said second temporary storage station includes a spray nozzle for supplying a rinsing liquid to the polished workpiece, and said structure to rinse comprises said spray nozzle. 83. A polishing apparatus comprising: a top ring for holding a workpiece during polishing of the workpiece; a first temporary storage station for receiving a workpiece to be polished; a pusher for transferring the workpiece to be polished to said top ring; and a robot for transferring the workpiece to be polished from said first temporary storage station said pusher. 84. The polishing apparatus according to claim 83, further comprising a second temporary storage station for receiving a polished workpiece. 85. The polishing apparatus according to claim 84, further comprising structure to rinse the polished workpiece in said second temporary storage station with a rinsing liquid. 86. The polishing apparatus according to claim 85, wherein said second temporary storage station includes a spray nozzle for supplying a rinsing liquid to the polished workpiece, and said structure to rinse comprises said spray nozzle. 87. The polishing apparatus according to claim 83, further comprising an additional robot for transferring the workpiece to be polished to said first temporary storage station. 88. A polishing apparatus comprising: a loading/unloading unit for storing workpieces to be polished; a polishing table for polishing a workpiece; and at least two temporary storage stations, with one of said at least two temporary storage stations for receiving from said loading/unloading unit a workpiece to be polished, and another of said at least two temporary storage stations for receiving a workpiece that has been polished by said polishing table and is to be returned to said loading/unloading unit. 89. The polishing apparatus according to claim 88, further comprising a robot for transferring the workpiece to be polished to said one of said at least two temporary storage stations and transferring the polished workpiece to said another of said at least two temporary storage stations. 90. The polishing apparatus according to claim 88, wherein said at least two temporary storage stations are disposed at upper and lower levels, respectively. 91. The polishing apparatus according to claim 88, further comprising a top ring for holding the workpiece to be polished during polishing thereof. 92. The polishing apparatus according to claim 91, further comprising a pusher for transferring the workpiece to be polished to said top ring and for receiving the polished workpiece from said top ring. 93. The polishing apparatus according to claim 92, further comprising a robot for transferring the polished workpiece between said pusher and said another of said at least two temporary storage stations. 94. The polishing apparatus according to claim 88, further comprising structure to rinse the polished workpiece in said another of said at least two temporary storage stations with a rinsing liquid. 95. The polishing apparatus according to claim 94, wherein said another of said at least two temporary storage stations includes a spray nozzle for supplying a rinsing liquid to the polished workpiece, and said structure to rinse comprises said spray nozzle. 96. An apparatus for processing a semiconductor device, comprising: a loading unit for storing semiconductor wafers to be treated; a first temporary storage station for receiving a semiconductor wafer to be treated; and a second temporary storage station for receiving a treated semiconductor wafer. 97. The apparatus according to claim 96, wherein said first temporary storage station and said second temporary storage station are provided at different levels relative to one another. 98. A polishing apparatus comprising: a top ring for holding a workpiece during polishing of the workpiece; a first temporary storage station for receiving the workpiece prior to polishing of the workpiece; and a vertically movable pusher for transferring the workpiece to said top ring. 