An apparatus for rinsing and drying a semiconductor workpiece in a micro-environment is set forth. The apparatus includes a rotor motor and a rinser/dryer housing. The rinser/dryer housing is connected to be rotated by the rotor motor. The rinser/dryer housing further defines a substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber therein in which rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least one face of the semiconductor workpiece by the action of centripetal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing. A fluid supply system is connected to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the chamber as the housing is rotated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece comprising; a rotor; a rinser/dryer housing connected for rotation to the rotor; an upper inlet in the rinser/dryer housing for providing a first fluid to an upper surface of the workpiece; a lower inlet in the rinser/dryer housing for providing a second fluid to a lower surface of the workpiece; at least one fluid outlet in the workpiece housing positioned to allow escape of fluid from the housing, by centrifugal force generated by rotating the housing; and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply at least a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer housing. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the rinser/dryer housing comprises upper and lower chamber members connected to one another to define the substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber, with the upper chamber member having an upper interior chamber face, and with the lower chamber member having a lower interior chamber face, and with the upper and lower interior chamber faces each separated from the workpiece by a spacing sufficiently small to provide substantial control of the physical properties of a fluid on the workpiece. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 with the chamber closely conforming around the workpiece. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 with the chamber having an upper chamber face spaced apart from a lower chamber face, by a preset height, when the chamber is closed, and with the workpiece between the upper and lower chamber faces, and with the upper inlet having a diameter greater than the preset height. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 with the outlet near the perimeter of the chamber, at a location over or under the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a rotor motor connected to the motor for rotating the workpiece housing. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 with the housing having an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member engageable together to form a rinser/dryer chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising one or more fasteners connecting the upper and lower chamber members, the fasteners adapted to allow relative movement between the upper and lower chamber members for accessing the processing chamber to insert and/or extract a workpiece. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 with the housing contains a substantially closed processing chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece is a generally circular semiconductor wafer and wherein the upper and lower inlets are generally aligned with the center of the semiconductor wafer. 11. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece comprising: a rotor motor; a rinser/dryer housing connected for rotation by the rotor motor the rinser/dryer housing including therein a substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber conforming to the workpiece, in which rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least once face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated by rotation of the housing; at least one central fluid inlet opening to the rinser/dryer chamber, substantially co-axial with an axis of rotation of the housings and disposed through a lower portion of the rinser/dryer chamber to distribute a fluid across a lower face of the workpiece by centrifugal force; at least one fluid outlet extending from the rinser/dryer chamber, the at least one fluid outlet positioned to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centrifugal force generated by rotation of the rinser/dryer housing about the axis of rotation; and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer chamber. 12. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a plurality of walls defining a rinser/dryer chamber having at least one fluid outlet positioned at a peripheral region of the chamber to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centrifugal acceleration; an upper chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid flow into an upper region of the chamber for distribution of the first fluid flow across at least an upper surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration, and a lower chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid flow into a lower region of the chamber for distribution of the second fluid flow across at least a lower surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the rinser/dryer chamber; a fluid supply system connected To the chamber to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid; and a dividing structure disposed in the chamber aligned with a peripheral edge of the workpiece at a position in which the dividing structure separates the first and second fluid flows, whereby the first fluid flow is principally limited To contacting the upper face of the workpiece and the second fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the lower face of the workpiece. 13. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a plurality of walls defining a substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber having at least one fluid outlet positioned at a peripheral region of the chamber to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centrifugal acceleration; an upper chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid flow into an upper region of the chamber for distribution of the first fluid flow across at least an upper surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration, and a lower chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid flow into a lower region of the chamber for distribution of the second fluid flow across at least a lower surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the rinser/dryer chamber; a fluid supply system connected to the chamber to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid; and wherein the- substantially closed chamber sufficiently conforms to the shape of the workpiece so that fluid flow through institial regions between the chamber and the workpiece is controlled. 14. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a plurality of walls defining a rinser/dryer chamber having at least one fluid outlet positioned at a peripheral region of the chamber to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centrifugal acceleration; an upper chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid flow into an upper region of the chamber for distribution of the first fluid flow across at least an upper surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration, and a lower chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid flow into a lower region of the chamber for distribution of the second fluid flow across at least a lower surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the rinser/dryer chamber; a fluid supply system connected to the chamber to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid; and a peripheral edge structure aligned with an edge of the workpiece to maintain separation of fluids flowing off of the upper and lower workpiece surfaces. 15. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a plurality of walls defining a rinser/dryer chamber having at least one fluid outlet positioned at a peripheral region of the chamber to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centrifugal acceleration; an upper chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid flow into an upper region of the chamber for distribution of the first fluid flow across at least an upper surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration and a lower chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid flow into a lower region of the chamber for distribution of the second fluid flow across at least a lower surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the rinser/dryer chamber; a fluid supply system connected to the chamber to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid; and one or more fasteners connecting the upper and lower chamber members, the one or more fasteners being adapted to allow relative movement between the upper and lower chamber members for accessing the chamber to insert and/or extract a workpiece. 16. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising; a housing including a chamber in which fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing; the housing further including an upper chamber member having an upper interior face, the upper chamber member including a centrally disposed upper fluid inlet opening in the interior chamber face thereof; and a lower chamber member having a lower interior chamber faces the lower chamber member including a lower fluid inlet opening in the interior chamber face thereof; the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member joined together to form the chamber, with the chamber conforming to the workpiece, the chamber having at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral region thereof for removal of fluid from the chamber through centrifugal force; and a fluid supply system for supplying fluids to the upper and lower fluid inlets. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the rinser/dryer housing further comprises: at least one workpiece support adapted to support a workpiece in the substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber in a position spaced from and generally parallel to the interior chamber face of the upper and lower chamber members, the workpiece support positioning the workpiece within the rinser/dryer chamber to allow distribution of rinsing and drying fluids supplied through the inlet opening of the upper chamber member across at least an upper face of the workpiece through the action of centripetal acceleration, and to allow distribution of rinsing and drying fluids supplied through the inlet opening of the lower chamber member across at least a lower face of the workpiece through the action of centripetal acceleration. 18. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece, comprising: a rotor motor; a rinser/dryer housing connected for rotation by the rotor motor, the rinser/dryer housing including therein a substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber conforming to the workpiece, in which rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least once face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing, and with the rinser/dryer housing including, a first chamber member having a first interior chamber face, and a centrally disposed fluid inlet opening on the first interior chamber face; a second chamber member having a second interior chamber face, with the first and second chamber members engageable to form the substantially closed processing chamber between them; a first plurality of radially spaced apart spacing members extending from the first interior chamber face; a second plurality of radially spaced apart spacing members extending from the second interior chamber face; at least one outlet at a peripheral region of the rinser/dryer chamber; and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer chamber. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising a plurality of fasteners attached to the first and second chamber members, with each fastener having a rod, so that the first and second chamber members can move linearly together and apart, and with each fastener member having a spring urging the first and second chamber members together. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising a plurality of overflow passageways in the first chamber member, and extending radially outwardly from a central area of the first chamber member. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising a second fluid inlet centrally located in the second interior chamber face of the second chamber member. 22. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece comprising; a rinser/dryer housing including: a rinser/dryer chamber in which rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing, with the rinser/dryer chamber conforming to the workpiece, on all sides of the workpiece, to reduce fluid flow areas in the rinser/dryer chamber; at least one fluid inlet opening disposed through a lower portion of the rinser/dryer chamber to distribute a fluid across a lower face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; at least one fluid outlet extending from the rinser/dryer chamber and positioned to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centrifugal acceleration generated during rotation of the rinser/dryer housing; and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer chamber. 23. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece comprising; a rinser/dryer housing including a rinser/dryer chamber conforming to the workpiece, in which rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least once face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing; with the rinser/dryer housing having upper and lower chamber members connected to each other to define the rinser/dryer chamber, with the upper chamber member having an upper interior chamber face, and with the lower chamber member having a lower interior chamber face, and with the upper and lower interior chamber faces each separated from the workpiece by a spacing sufficiently small to provide substantial control of the physical properties of a fluid on the workpiece, and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer chamber. 24. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece comprising; a rinser/dryer housing including a rinser/dryer chamber conforming to the workpiece, in which rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing, the rinser/dryer housing having an upper chamber inlet for supplying a first fluid flow into an upper region of the rinser/dryer chamber for distribution of the first fluid flow across at least an upper surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration, and a lower chamber inlet for supplying a second fluid flow into a lower region of the rinser/dryer chamber for distribution of the second fluid flow across at least a lower surface of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer chamber. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 and further comprising a dividing member disposed in the rinser/dryer chamber and aligned with a peripheral edge of the workpiece at a position in which the dividing structure separates the first and second fluid flows, whereby the first fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the upper face of the workpiece and the second fluid flow is principally limited to contacting the lower face of the workpiece. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 with the rinser/dryer housing rotatable on an axis of rotation, and with the upper and lower chamber inlets aligned with each other on the axis of rotation. 27. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising a plurality of overflow passageways in the rinser/dryer housing extending radially outwardly from a central area of the rinser/dryer housing. 28. The apparatus of claim 24 where the fluid supply system contains de-ionized water. 29. The apparatus of claim 24 where the fluid supply system contains a member selected from the group of alcohol, de-iodized water, and a combination of them. 30. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising at least one fluid outlet in the rinser/dryer chamber to allow removal of fluid from the chamber via centrifugal force. 31. An apparatus for processing a generally circular semiconductor wafer comprising: a plurality of walls defining a rinser/dryer chamber, the plurality of walls comprising: a generally planar upper interior chamber face; a generally planar lower interior chamber face; the upper and lower interior chamber faces generally parallel with upper and lower planar surfaces of the semiconductor wafer, respectively, with the rinser/dryer chamber sufficiently conforming to the shape of the wafer, so that fluid flow through instital regions between the chamber and the wafer is controlled; a plurality of workpiece supports on both the upper and lower interior chamber faces supporting the workpiece spaced apart from the upper and lower interior chamber faces; at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral region of the rinser/dryer chamber to allow escape of fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber by centripetal acceleration; at least one fluid inlet in the rinser/dryer chamber to allow a fluid to enter the rinser/dryer chamber at a non-peripheral region of the chamber; and a fluid supply system connected to the chamber to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the at least one fluid inlet opening. 32. An apparatus for rinsing and drying a generally circular semiconductor wafer, comprising: an upper chamber member having a fluid inlet opening; a lower chamber member having a fluid inlet opening; the inlet openings of the upper and lower chamber members generally aligned with the center of the semiconductor wafer; the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member being joined to one another to form a rinser/dryer chamber generally conforming to the workpiece and having at least one fluid outlet disposed at a peripheral region of the chamber, to allow escape of fluid from the chamber by centrifugal acceleration; a first workpiece support attached to the upper chamber member and a second workpiece support attached to the lower chamber member, the workpiece supports adapted to support a workpiece in the chamber in a position to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the inlet opening of the upper chamber member across at least an upper face of the workpiece by of centrifugal acceleration, and to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the inlet opening of the lower chamber member across at least a lower face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; and a fluid supply system connected to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the inlet opening of the upper chamber member and the inlet opening of the lower chamber member. 33. An apparatus for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: an upper chamber member having a fluid inlet opening; a lower chamber member having a fluid inlet opening; the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member engageable together to form a rinser/dryer chamber generally conforming to the workpiece; a plurality of fasteners connecting the upper and lower chamber members and adapted to allow relative movement between the upper and lower chamber members for accessing the chamber to insert and/or extract a workpiece; at least one fluid outlet at a peripheral region of the rinser/dryer chamber to allow escape of fluid from the chamber by centrifugal acceleration; a first workpiece support attached to the upper chamber member and a second workpiece support attached to the lower chamber member, the workpiece supports adapted to support a workpiece in the chamber in a position to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the inlet opening of the upper chamber member across at least an upper face of the workpiece by of centrifugal acceleration, and to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the inlet opening of the lower chamber member across at least a lower face of the workpiece by centrifugal acceleration; and a fluid supply system connected to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the inlet opening of the upper chamber member and the inlet opening of the lower chamber member. 34. An apparatus for rinsing/drying a workpiece comprising; a rinser/dryer housing including a first chamber member having a first interior chamber face, and a centrally disposed fluid inlet opening on the first interior chamber face, and a second chamber member having a second interior chamber faces and with the first and second chamber members engageable to form a rinser/dryer chamber between them; with the chamber conforming to the workpiece, and with rinsing and drying fluids distributed across at least one face of the workpiece in the chamber by centrifugal acceleration generated during rotation of the housing; at least one outlet at a peripheral region of the rinser/dryer chamber; a first plurality of spacing members extending from the first interior chamber face; a second plurality of spacing members extending from the second interior chamber face; and a fluid supply system connected to the housing to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the rinser/dryer chamber. 