An automated storage system for storing large quantities of samples in trays includes a storage compartment, a tray shuttle compartment abutting the storage compartment on one side and a plurality of independent modules on the other side. The modules perform processing of samples that are retrieved from the storage compartment by a tray shuttle, including extraction of selected samples from retrieved source trays and transfer of the selected samples into a separate, destination tray that can be further processed or removed from the system for use. The independent operation of the modules permits handling and processing to be performed simultaneously by different modules while the tray shuttle accesses additional samples within the storage compartment. In one embodiment, a vertical carousel is used to vertically align a desired tray with the tray shuttle, while the tray shuttle operates within a horizontal plane.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated system for storing and handling samples comprising: an enclosed refrigerated storage compartment; at least one vertical carousel disposed within the storage compartment, the vertical carousel having a plurality of carriers distributed around a vertical loop, wherein each carrier is adapted to receive a plurality of trays that retain a plurality of samples; a tray shuttle compartment abutting the storage compartment, the tray shuttle compartment having a width, a storage side adjacent the storage compartment and a module side opposite the storage compartment, wherein the module side of the shuttle compartment has a plurality of sealable openings formed therein, each opening adapted for releasable attachment of one of a sample handling module or a dummy plate adapted for sealing the opening; a tray shuttle disposed within the tray shuttle compartment at a fixed height relative to the vertical loop and adapted to travel along a width of the tray shuttle compartment, wherein the tray shuttle comprises means for pulling and pushing trays for transfer between the storage compartment and sample handling module; two or more sample handling modules independently, releasably and interchangeably connected to the module side of the tray shuttle compartment, each of the two or more sample handling modules disposed at one of the sealable openings, the two or more sample handling modules including an input-output module for receiving a tray for storage in or removal from the system; one or more dummy plates for releasably sealing any of the plurality of sealable openings if a number of sealable openings exceeds a number of sample handling modules; and a system controller directing operation of the storage compartment, the vertical carousel, the tray shuttle and the two or more sample handling modules. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of trays has a tray thickness and a tray width, and wherein each carrier on the vertical carousel comprises a plurality of partitions, each partition having a plurality of slots for slidably receiving and supporting the trays between a pair of partitions, wherein the slots are configured to provide a variable range of distances between vertically adjacent trays. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the input-output module includes a bar code reader for identifying trays and samples that are processed through the input-output module. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more sample handling modules further includes at least one sample selector module for selecting individual samples from one or more trays and depositing the selected samples into a destination tray. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one sample selector module comprises a pick head and a pusher, the pick head having a cavity for receiving a sample container when the pusher is activated to lift the sample container from the tray by contacting a bottom of the sample container and pushing it upward through an opening in the tray and into the cavity. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the cavity is adapted for receiving a plurality of sample containers and the pick head further comprises an ejector for simultaneously ejecting the plurality of sample containers retained within the cavity. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the sample container is retained within a rack sealed with a sheet seal and the pick head further comprises a seal cutting edge near a lower edge of the cavity, wherein the pusher pushes the sample container against the seal cutting edge to cut the seal around the container before pushing the container into the cavity. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the sample selector module further comprises: a pick table disposed in an x-y plane for supporting one or more source trays and a destination tray; and one or more translators for translating the pick head and the pusher within the x-y plane to access all samples in the one or more source trays and all positions in the destination tray. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the pick head is translated within the x-y plane independent of the pusher. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the pick head and pusher are translated together within the x-y plane. 11. The system of claim 4, wherein the sample selector module is adapted for selecting samples retained in round vials and further comprises: a pick head for grasping a vial; a translation mechanism for moving the pick head between the source tray and the destination tray; and a bar code reader; wherein the pick head has at least one mirror attached thereto for reflecting a reading beam to the bar code reader so that all sides of the vial are readable. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the tray shuttle further comprises: a tray support surface; a motorized tray hook disposed on a slide that traverses the tray support surface between the storage side and the module side of the tray shuttle compartment, wherein the motorized tray hook rotates to extend or retract relative to the tray support surface, wherein the motorized tray hook extends to engage a first tray end hook on a tray of interest, and slides toward the module side so that the tray of interest is pulled away from the carrier and onto the tray support surface. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the motorized tray hook transfers the tray of interest to the at least one processing module by rotating to disengage the tray end hook, sliding to the storage side, rotating to engage a second tray end hook, and sliding toward the module side to push the tray of interest off of the tray support surface and onto a tray surface of the at least one processing module. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the storage compartment spans multiple floors in a multi-story building and wherein a separate tray shuttle and a separate input-output module are disposed at one or more additional vertical locations along the storage compartment, wherein the vertical locations correspond to different floors. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sample handling modules includes a bridge module, wherein the bridge module comprises an interface to a separate tray shuttle compartment of a separate storage system disposed adjacent the storage system. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more sample handling modules comprises a bridge module, wherein the bridge module provides an interface to a workstation for additional processing or high-throughput screening. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more sample handling modules includes a video camera for visually tracking operations within the module. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more sample handling modules comprises a liquid handling module and the liquid handling module further comprises an automated capper/de-capper. 19. An automated system for storing and handling samples comprising: an enclosed environmentally-controlled storage compartment; at least one vertical carousel disposed within the storage compartment, the vertical carousel having a plurality of carriers distributed around a vertical loop, wherein each carrier is adapted to receive a plurality of sample trays; a tray shuttle compartment adjacent the storage compartment; a tray shuttle disposed within the tray shuttle compartment in communication with the storage compartment at a fixed height relative to the vertical loop, wherein the tray shuttle comprises means for pulling and pushing trays for transfer into and out of the storage compartment, a plurality of sealable openings extending through a wall of the tray shuttle compartment on a side opposite the storage compartment; two or more independent, interchangeable modules, wherein one independent, interchangeable module is releasably attached to the tray shuttle compartment at one of the plurality of sealable openings in a common horizontal plane with the tray shuttle so that trays are transferable through the opening, wherein the independent, interchangeable modules comprise an input-output module and at least one additional module selected from a sample selector module, a sample inspection module, a sample processing module, a liquid handling module, and a bridge module; a dummy plate adapted for sealing an unused sealable opening if a number of sealable openings exceeds a number of independent, interchangeable modules; and a system controller directing operation of the storage compartment, the vertical carousel, the tray shuttle and the two or more independent, interchangeable modules. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the input-output module includes a bar code reader for identifying trays and samples that are processed through the input-output module. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the two or more independent modules is a sample selector module comprising a pick head and a pusher, the pick head having a cavity for receiving a sample container when the pusher is activated to lift the sample container from the tray by contacting a bottom of the sample container and pushing it upward through an opening in the tray and into the cavity. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the cavity is adapted for receiving a plurality of sample containers and the pick head further comprises an ejector for simultaneously ejecting the plurality of sample containers retained within the cavity. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the sample container is retained within a rack sealed with a sheet seal and the pick head further comprises a seal cutting edge near a lower edge of the cavity, wherein the pusher pushes the sample container against the seal cutting edge to cut the seal around the sample container before pushing the container into the cavity. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the sample selector module further comprises: a pick table disposed in an x-y plane for supporting one or more source trays and a destination tray; and one or more translators for translating the pick head and the pusher within the x-y plane to access all sample containers in the one or more source trays and all positions in the destination tray. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the pick head is translated within the x-y plane independent of the pusher. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the pick head and pusher are translated together within the x-y plane. 27. The system of claim 21, wherein the sample selector module is adapted for selecting samples retained in round vials and further comprises: a pick head for grasping a vial; a translation mechanism for moving the pick head between the source tray and the destination tray; and a bar code reader; wherein the pick head has at least one mirror attached thereto for reflecting a reading beam to the bar code reader so that all sides of the vial are readable. 28. The system of claim 19, wherein the tray shuttle further comprises: a tray support surface; a motorized tray hook disposed on a slide that traverses the tray support surface between the storage side and the module side of the tray shuttle compartment, wherein the motorized tray hook rotates to extend or retract relative to the tray support surface, wherein the motorized tray hook extends to engage a first tray end hook on a tray of interest, and slides toward the module side so that the tray of interest is pulled away from the carrier and onto the tray support surface. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the motorized tray hook transfers the tray of interest to the at least one processing module by rotating to disengage the tray end hook, sliding to the storage side, rotating to engage a second tray end hook, and sliding toward the module side to push the tray of interest off of the tray support surface and onto a tray surface of the at least one processing module. 30. The system of claim 19, wherein the storage compartment spans multiple floors in a multi-story building and wherein a separate tray shuttle and a separate input-output module are disposed at one or more additional vertical locations along the storage compartment, wherein the vertical locations correspond to different floors. 31. The system of claim 19, wherein the two or more independent modules comprises a bridge module, wherein the bridge module provides an interface to a separate tray shuttle compartment of a separate storage system disposed adjacent the storage system. 32. The system of claim 19, wherein the two or more independent modules comprises a bridge module, wherein the bridge module provides an interface to a workstation for additional processing or high-throughput screening. 33. The system of claim 19, wherein the two or more independent modules includes a video camera for visually tracking operations within the module. 34. The system of claim 19, wherein the two or more independent modules comprises a liquid handling module and the liquid handling module further comprises an automated capper/de-capper. 35. An automated system for storing and handling samples comprising: an enclosed environmentally-controlled storage compartment; at least one vertical carousel disposed within the storage compartment, the vertical carousel having a plurality of carriers distributed around a vertical loop, wherein each carrier is adapted to receive a plurality of sample trays; a tray shuttle disposed within a tray shuttle compartment extending along a width of and in communication with the storage compartment at a fixed height relative to the vertical loop, wherein the tray shuttle moves along a width of the tray shuttle compartment and comprises means for pulling and pushing trays for transfer into and out of the storage compartment sealable openings formed through a side of the tray shuttle compartment opposite the storage compartment, wherein the tray shuttle is further adapted for pulling and pushing trays through one or more of the sealable openings; an input-output module releasably attached to the tray shuttle compartment at a first sealable opening so that trays are transferable through the first sealable opening, the input-output module for receiving a tray for storage in or removal from the storage compartment, wherein the input-output module comprises a separate, environmentally-controlled compartment; one or more independent modules, wherein one independent module is releasably attached to the tray shuttle compartment at a second sealable opening in a common horizontal plane with the tray shuttle so that trays are transferable through the openings, wherein the one or more independent modules comprises a separate, environmentally-controlled compartment and the independent modules are selected from a sample selector module, a sample inspection module, a sample processing module, a liquid handling module, and a bridge module; a dummy plate adapted for sealing an unused sealable opening if a number of sealable openings exceeds a number of independent modules; and a system controller directing operation of the storage compartment, the vertical carousel, the tray shuttle, the input-output module, and the one or more independent modules. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the input-output module includes a bar code reader for identifying trays and samples that are processed through the input-output module. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein the one or more independent module is a sample selector module comprising a pick head and a pusher, the pick head having a cavity for receiving a sample container when the pusher is activated to lift the sample container from the tray by contacting a bottom of the sample container and pushing it upward through an opening in the tray and into the cavity. 38. The system of claim 37, wherein the sample selector module further comprises: a pick table disposed in an x-y plane for supporting one or more source trays and a destination tray; and one or more translators for translating the pick head and the pusher within the x-y plane to access all sample containers in the one or more source trays and all positions in the destination tray. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the sample selector module is adapted for selecting samples retained in round vials and further comprises: a pick head for grasping a vial; a translation mechanism for moving the pick head between the source tray and the destination tray; and a bar code reader; wherein the pick head has at least one mirror attached thereto for reflecting a reading beam to the bar code reader so that all sides of the vial are readable. 40. The system of claim 35, wherein the tray shuttle further comprises: a tray support surface; a motorized tray hook disposed on a slide that traverses the tray support surface between the storage side and the module side of the tray shuttle compartment, wherein the motorized tray hook rotates to extend or retract relative to the tray support surface, wherein the motorized tray hook extends to engage a first tray end hook on a tray of interest, and slides toward the module side so that the tray of interest is pulled away from the carrier and onto the tray support surface. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the motorized tray hook transfers the tray of interest to the at least one processing module by rotating to disengage the tray end hook, sliding to the storage side, rotating to engage a second tray end hook, and sliding toward the module side to push the tray of interest off of the tray support surface and onto a tray surface of the at least one processing module. 42. The system of claim 35, wherein the storage compartment spans multiple floors in a multi-story building and wherein a separate tray shuttle and a separate input-output module are disposed at one or more additional vertical locations along the storage compartment, wherein the vertical locations correspond to different floors. 43. The system of claim 35, wherein the one or more independent modules comprises a bridge module, wherein the bridge module provides an interface to a separate tray shuttle compartment of a separate storage system disposed adjacent the storage system. 