An apparatus cleans, primes and prepares a surface onto which a gasket, adhesive or other bonding agent is to be applied. The apparatus includes a robotic device capable of movement along multiple axes. An end effector is supported by the robotic device (18) for movement along the surface (35) to be cleaned. A felt supply assembly (12) delivers felt (14) under tension to the end effector (20). A cleaning fluid delivery system (34, 34a, 36a) applies cleaning fluid through the end effector directly to the felt for application to the surface to be cleaned. The end effector also includes 42 a squeegee-like elastomer wiping device (51) which scrapes the surface by removing gross contaminants from the surface. An air knife (52) is provided which force-flashes fluid residue. The movement of the end effector is controlled by a preprogrammed numeric controller (22) which also provides for precise application of fluid to the felt, advancement of the felt on-the-fly, and monitoring pressure of the end effector against the surface to be cleaned.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for preparing a surface onto which a gasket, bonding agent or the like is applied comprising: a robotic device capable of movement along multiple axes; an end effector supported by said robotic device for movement along said surface; felt supply means located remotely from said robotic device for continuously delivering felt to said end effector under tension and retracting said felt from said end effector under tension; and a cleaning fluid delivery system for wiping a cleaning fluid directly onto said felt at said end effector. 2. An apparatus of claim 1 further includes a wiping device supported by said end effector for wiping said surface. 3. An apparatus of claim 2 wherein said wiping device is a squeegee. 4. An apparatus of claim 2 further including an air knife, supported by said end effector for force-flashing off said wiped fluid. 5. An apparatus of claim 4 wherein said wiping device is positioned on said end effector forward of said directional movement thereof and wherein said air knife is positioned on said end effector rearward of said directional movement thereof. 6. An apparatus of claim 1 wherein felt supply means includes a feed tensioning device for providing an extent of slack felt to said end effector. 7. An apparatus of claim 6 wherein said felt supply means includes a take-up tensioning device for retracting felt under tension. 8. An apparatus of claim 7 further includes a drive mechanism operable in combination with said feed tensioning device and take-up tensioning device to deliver and retract said felt. 9. An apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robotic device, said end effector, said felt supply means and said cleaning fluid delivery system are operable under the control of a numeric controller. 10. A robotically mounted end effector for preparing a surface onto which a gasket, bonding agent or the like is applied comprising: an elongate end effector body having a distal application tip; and means for continuously advancing a felt ribbon along said application tip; said end effector body having a central elongate cleaning fluid channel defining a dispense opening proximate of said distal application tip for dispensing cleaning fluid onto said felt ribbon. 11. An end effector of claim 10 wherein said dispenser opening is positioned to continuously apply fluid to said advancing felt ribbon. 12. An end effector of claim 11 wherein said application tip of said end effector is movable over said surface for wiping said fluid-containing felt ribbon over said surface. 13. An end effector of claim 12 including means for aligning said felt ribbon with respect to said application tip. 14. An end effector of claim 13 wherein said aligning means includes an entry drum for supporting said felt ribbon advancing towards said application tip, and an exit drum for supporting said fluid containing ribbon advancing from said application tip. 15. An end effector of claim 13 wherein said aligning means includes an entry member including a plurality of entry rollers for supporting said felt ribbon advancing towards said application tip and an exit member including a plurality of exit rollers for supporting said fluid- containing ribbon advancing from said application tip. 16. An end effector of claim 10 wherein said end effector body is moveable with respect to a mounting member so as to provide for biased engagement of said application tip against said surface. 17. An end effector of claim 16 wherein said effector body is spring biased against said surface. 18. An end effector of claim 17 is further including a diaphragm between said mounting member and said end effector body for providing said spring bias. 19. A robotically mounted end effector for preparing a contaminated surface onto which a gasket, bonding agent or the like is to be applied comprising: an elongate end effector body having a distal tip for directional movement along said surface; a fluid-wetted felt ribbon continuously advanceable across said distal tip to apply cleaning fluid to said surface; a squeegee-like wiping device positioned on said end effector body forward of said directional movement of said end effector for wiping said contaminated surface; and an air knife position on said end effector for force-flashing off fluid applied by said felt ribbon. 