A computer program operably controls a riveting system to join two or more workpieces with a rivet. In another aspect of the present invention, a self-piercing rivet is employed with computer software to sense, measure and/or determine riveting and/or joint characteristics. Still another aspect of the present invention employs an electronic control unit and one or more sensors to determine a riveting characteristic and/or an actuator characteristic.
Claims. Stresses in Rivets and Plates, prior to Jul. 20, 1998, pp. 1-3. . An Offer with Gaps, Blech '90 [Plate '90] in Essen: Element and Equipment for Joining, prior to Jul. 20, 1998, pp. 1-5. . Quality Assurance in Riveting Technology, Lothar Budde, Uwe Klemens, Wilhelm Lappe, Oct. 9, 1990, pp. 1-16. . Sheet Metal Industries, Advanced Car Bodies Trigger New Fastening Technology, Oct. 1992, pp. 14, 16. . Henrob Rivet Setter Drawing, believed to have been offered for sale, publicly used or known prior to Jul. 20, 1998. . Nissan Motor Co. Ltd., Patent Abstract of Japan 07108497, Processing Gun Using Piezoelectric Element and its Control Device, Dec. 10, 1993. . German Patent No. DE 44 19 065 Abstract (English Translation), Dec. 7, 1995.. Primary Examiner: Picard; Leo Assistant Examiner: Garland; Steven R. Attorney, Agent or Firm: Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C. Parent Case Text CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/358,751, now U.S. Pat. No. 6,276,050 filed on Jul. 21, 1999, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09/119,255, filed on Jul. 20, 1998, which claims priority to German Patent Application No. DE 197 31 222.5, filed on Jul. 21, 1997. Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer program recorded on a medium for use in a workpiece riveting process, the program being operated according to the steps comprising: (a) recalling data about a joint to be riveted; (b) determining if a rivet is located in a riveting tool; (c) sending a signal to feed a rivet to the riveting tool if step (b) is negative; (d) energizing an actuator of the riveting tool to advance the rivet; (e) measuring workpiece thickness; (f) determining if the workpiece thickness is acceptable, and if not, stopping the riveting process; (g) determining a rivet size characteristic, and if unacceptable, stopping the riveting process; and (h) determining the force used to join the workpieces by the rivet, and if unacceptable, stopping the riveting process. 2. The program of claim 1 further comprising sending an error signal if an unacceptable condition is determined. 3. The program of claim 1 further comprising storing determined values and displaying historical trends between riveting process cycles. 4. The program of claim 1 further comprising determining which rivet should be fed to the riveting tool from multiple different rivet options. 5. The program of claim 1 wherein the actuator is an electric motor, further comprising causing rotation of a portion of the electric motor which linearly drives a rivet punch. 6. Computer software stored on a medium for use in a workpiece riveting process having a rivet and a riveting tool with an electric motor, the software being operated according to the steps comprising: (a) energizing the electric motor of the riveting tool and advancing the rivet; (b) determining thickness of a workpiece; (c) determining if the workpiece thickness is acceptable, and if not, altering the riveting process; (d) determining a rivet characteristic, and if unacceptable, stopping the riveting process; and (e) determining the force needed to join workpieces by the rivet, and if unacceptable, stopping the riveting process. 7. The software of claim 6 further comprising sending an error signal if an unacceptable condition is determined. 8. The software of claim 6 further comprising storing determined values and displaying historical trends between riveting process cycles. 9. The software of claim 6 further comprising determining which rivet should be fed to the riveting tool from multiple different rivet options. 10. The software of claim 6 wherein the rivet characteristic is rivet size. 11. The software of claim 6 further comprising causing rotation of a portion of the electric motor which linearly drives a rivet punch. 12. Computer software stored on a medium for use in a workpiece riveting process having workpieces, a rivet, a riveting tool, a rivet feeder and an electronic control unit, the software being operated according to the steps comprising: (a) determining if the rivet is located in the riveting tool; (b) sending a signal to feed the rivet to the riveting tool if step (a) is negative; (c) energizing an actuator of the riveting tool to advance the rivet; (d) measuring the thickness of at least one of the workpieces; (e) determining if the thickness is acceptable; (f) determining a size characteristic of the rivet; and (g) determining the force used to join the workpieces by the rivet. 13. The software of claim 12 wherein the actuator is an electric motor, further comprising deenergizing the electric motor if an unacceptable condition is determined. 14. The software of claim 12 further comprising sending an error signal if an unacceptable condition is determined. 15. The software of claim 12 further comprising storing determined values and displaying historical trends between riveting process cycles. 16. The software of claim 12 further comprising determining which rivet should be fed to the riveting tool from multiple different rivet options. 17. The software of claim 12 further comprising causing rotation of the actuator which linearly drives the rivet into the workpieces in a self-piercing manner. 18. A computer program stored on a medium for use in a riveting process employing a self-piercing rivet, a joint, and a riveting tool having an electric motor, a transmission, a punch and a die, the program being operated according to the steps comprising: (a) recalling data about the joint to be riveted; (b) energizing the electric motor and converting rotary motion of the motor to linear motion in the transmission operably driven by the motor; (c) linearly advancing the self-piercing rivet in response to step (b); (d) determining a riveted characteristic of at least one of: (i) the self-piercing rivet and (ii) the joint; (e) comparing the determined riveted characteristic of step (d) with the data of step (a); and (f) deenergizing the electric motor to prevent the self-piercing rivet from directly contacting against the die when the rivet is in a substantially optimum workpiece-engaging position between the punch and the die. 19. The program of claim 18 further comprising receiving a signal from a sensor located in the riveting tool indicating the riveted characteristic. 20. The program of claim 19 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the thickness of at least two workpieces riveted together by the self-piercing rivet. 21. The program of claim 18 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the length of the rivet. 22. The program of claim 18 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the quality of the riveted joint. 23. The program of claim 18 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the quantity of force applied by the punch. 24. The program of claim 18 further comprising deenergizing the electric motor and sending an error signal if an undesirable riveted characteristic is determined. 25. The program of claim 18 further comprising allowing the riveting tool to operate in a subsequent riveting cycle if an acceptable riveted characteristic is determined. 26. The program of claim 18 further comprising causing a robot to move the riveting tool. 27. The program of claim 18 further comprising determining the actual speed of the electric motor and comparing the actual speed to a desired speed. 28. The program of claim 18 further comprising determining the actual electrical power characteristic of the electric motor and comparing the actual electrical power characteristic to a desired electrical power characteristic. 29. The program of claim 18 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates a rivet punch assembly location. 30. The program of claim 18 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the thickness of workpieces to be joined. 31. The program of claim 18 further comprising storing determined values and displaying historical trends between riveting process cycles. 32. The program of claim 18 further comprising determining which rivet should be fed to the riveting tool from multiple different rivet options. 33. A computer program stored on a medium for use in a riveting process employing a self-piercing rivet, a joint, and a riveting tool having an electric motor, a transmission, a punch and a die, the program being operated according to the steps comprising: (a) recalling data about the joint to be riveted; (b) energizing the electric motor and converting rotary motion of the motor to linear motion in the transmission operably driven by the motor; (c) linearly advancing the self-piercing rivet in response to step (b); (d) determining a riveted characteristic of at least one of: (i) the self-piercing rivet and (ii) the joint; (e) comparing the determined riveted characteristic of step (d) with the data of step (a); and (f) receiving a signal responsive to a force applied by a clamp, linearly advancing at least partially with the punch, to a workpiece being riveted. 34. The program of claim 33 further comprising deenergizing the electric motor to prevent the self-piercing rivet from directly contacting against the die when the rivet is in a substantially optimum workpiece-engaging position between the punch and the die. 35. The program of claim 33 further comprising receiving a signal from a sensor located in the riveting tool indicating the riveted characteristic. 36. The program of claim 33 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the thickness of at least two workpieces riveted together by the self-piercing rivet. 37. The program of claim 33 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the length of the rivet. 38. The program of claim 33 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the quality of the riveted joint. 39. The program of claim 33 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the quantity of force applied by the punch. 40. The program of claim 33 further comprising deenergizing the electric motor and sending an error signal if an undesirable riveted characteristic is determined. 41. The program of claim 33 further comprising allowing the riveting tool to operate in a subsequent riveting cycle if an acceptable riveted characteristic is determined. 42. The program of claim 33 further comprising causing a robot to move the riveting tool. 43. The program of claim 33 further comprising determining the actual torque of the electric motor and comparing the actual torque to a desired torque. 44. The program of claim 33 further comprising determining the actual speed of the electric motor and comparing the actual speed to a desired speed. 45. The program of claim 33 further comprising determining the actual electrical power characteristic of the electric motor and comparing the actual electrical power characteristic to a desired electrical power characteristic. 46. The program of claim 33 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates a rivet punch assembly location. 47. The program of claim 33 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the thickness of workpieces to be joined. 48. The program of claim 33 further comprising storing determined values and displaying historical trends between riveting process cycles. 49. The program of claim 33 further comprising determining which rivet should be fed to the riveting tool from multiple different rivet options. 50. A computer program stored on a medium for use in a riveting process employing a self-piercing rivet, a joint, and a riveting tool having an electric motor, a transmission, a punch and a die, the program being operated according to the steps comprising: (a) recalling data about the joint to be riveted; (b) energizing the electric motor and converting rotary motion of the motor to linear motion in the transmission operably driven by the motor; (c) linearly advancing the self-piercing rivet in response to step (b); (d) determining a riveted characteristic of at least one of: (i) the self-piercing rivet and (ii) the joint; (e) comparing the determined riveted characteristic of step (d) with the data of step (a); and (f) determining the actual torque of the electric motor and comparing the actual torque to a desired torque. 51. The program of claim 50 further comprising receiving a signal from a sensor located in the riveting tool indicating the riveted characteristic. 52. The program of claim 50 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the thickness of at least two workpieces riveted together by the self-piercing rivet. 53. The program of claim 50 further comprising deenergizing the electric motor to prevent the self-piercing rivet from directly contacting against the die when the rivet is in a substantially optimum workpiece-engaging position between the punch and the die. 54. The program of claim 50 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the length of the rivet. 55. The program of claim 50 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the quality of the riveted joint. 56. The program of claim 50 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the quantity of force applied by the punch. 57. The program of claim 50 further comprising receiving a signal responsive to a force applied by a clamp linearly advancing at least partially with the punch, to a workpiece being riveted. 58. The program of claim 50 further comprising deenergizing the electric motor and sending an error signal if an undesirable riveted characteristic is determined. 59. The program of claim 50 further comprising allowing the riveting tool to operate in a subsequent riveting cycle if an acceptable riveted characteristic is determined. 60. The program of claim 50 further comprising causing a robot to move the riveting tool. 61. The program of claim 50 further comprising determining the actual speed of the electric motor and comparing the actual speed to a desired speed. 62. The program of claim 50 further comprising determining the actual electrical power characteristic of the electric motor and comparing the actual electrical power characteristic to a desired electrical power characteristic. 63. The program of claim 50 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates a rivet punch assembly location. 64. The program of claim 50 wherein the riveted characteristic indicates the thickness of workpieces to be joined. 65. The program of claim 50 further comprising storing determined values and displaying historical trends between riveting process cycles. 66. The program of claim 50 further comprising determining which rivet should be fed to the riveting tool from multiple different rivet options. 