A mobile communications device comprising a location sensing system, producing a location output; a memory, storing a set of locations and associated events: a telecommunications device, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to determine a priority thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile device comprising: (a) a location sensing system, producing a location output; (b) a memory, storing a set of locations and associated eve, said memory being adapted to store a chronological parameter associated with an event; (c) a telecommunications subsystem. communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and (d) a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to determine a priority thereof, and outputting said associated events in order of said determined priority. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said location sensing system comprises a GPS receiver. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said location sensing system and said telecommunications subsystem comprises a component of a cellular telephone system. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein said location sensing system comprises a geographical map. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein said location output is a Cartesian coordinate. 6. The device according to claim 1, wherein said chronological parameter is selected from the group consisting of time of detection of event, time of expiration of event, time of logging of event to memory, periodic variations in event, statistical mean time of expected recurrence of event, and time for presentation of event related information to user. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem receives event and location information from a remote system. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem transmits event and location information to a remote system. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem transmits and receives event and location information to and from a remote system. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem comprises a wireless communications system. 11. The device according to claim 1, wherein a data path between said remote system and said telecommunications subsystem comprises a wired terrestrial network. 12. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem comprises a spread spectrum radio frequency communications system. 13. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem is a radio frequency communications system operating in a band selected from the 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands. 14. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem is a radio frequency communications system operating in the range 50-450 MHz. 15. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor prioritizes based on a proximity of a stored location to a sensed location. 16. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor prioritizes based on a prospective conjunction of a sensed location with a stored location. 17. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor prioritizes based on a type of event. 18. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor prioritizes based on a spatial-temporal proximity of a stored location to loci defined by an itinerary. 19. The device according to claim 1, further comprising an event detector. 20. The device according to claim 19, wherein said event detector selectively detects an electromagnetic emission. 21. The device according to claim 19, wherein said event is selected from one or more of the group selected from road conditions, road hazards, traffic conditions and weather conditions. 22. The device according to claim 19, wherein said event detector detects a potential source of interference for a sensor associated with the device. 23. The device according to claim 1, wherein said event comprises information relating to a commercial establishment. 24. The device according to claim 1, wherein said memory stores an origin of information relating to at least one event. 25. The device according to claim 1, wherein telecommunications subsystem communicates a message intelligible to a human. 26. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem communicates using a protocol adaptive to one or more parameters selected from the group consisting of transmit power, data rate, data packet format, error detection scheme, error correction scheme, bandwidth allocation, modulation scheme, and encoding scheme. 27. The device according to claim 1, wherein said telecommunications subsystem transmits a signal encrypted using a public key-private key cipher. 28. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor responds to an authorization code, said authorization code being unique for said mobile communications device and being received by said communications device, wherein said authorization code controls an availability of least a portion of the functions of said mobile communications device. 29. The device according to claim 1, wherein said mobile communications device first establishes communications with a remote system through a common control channel, and then switches to a private channel. 30. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a remote system, said remote system comprising: (a) a second location sensing system, producing a location output: (b) a second memory, storing a set of locations and associated events; (c) a second telecommunications subsystem, communicating event and location information between the mobile communications device and said second memory; and (d) a second processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said second memory, to determine a priority thereof. 31. The device according to claim 30, wherein at least one of said mobile communications device and said remote system comprises an event detector and said telecommunications device of said at least one mobile communications device comprises a transmitter. 32. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor outputs using voice. 33. The device according to claim 1, wherein said mobile device has a user, and said processor predicts an importance of an event to the user, as a basis for determining a priority. 34. A mobile device comprising: (a) a location sensing system, producing a location output; (b) a memory, storing a set of locations and corresponding event information; (c) a telecommunications subsystem, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and (d) a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to output said associated events according to a priority thereof to a local user. 35. A mobile device comprising: (a) a location sensing system, producing a location output; (b) a memory, storing a set of locations and corresponding event information, wherein at least one event stored in said memory has an associated temporal parameter; (c) a telecommunications subsystem, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and (d) a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations, associated events and associated temporal parameter in said memory, to determine a priority thereof. 