An apparatus and a method for compliant positioning of an object during an assembly operation wherein the apparatus includes a base plate, a locator plate for mounting an object such as a clamp or a tool spaced from the base plate and a plurality of linear actuators connected between the base plate the locator plate by universal joints providing six degrees of freedom of movement. According to the apparatus and the method a control is connected to the actuators for selectively moving the locator plate to a predetermined position relative to the base plate for contacting a component to be assembled with an object mounted on the locator plate. Tow or more of the actuators can be mechanically coupled to move the locator plate with less than six degrees of freedom. The control is responsive to a force applied to the locator plate through the object during assembly of the component for actuating the linear actuators to change the applied force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for positioning an object comprising: a base plate; a locator plate; a plurality of actuators interconnecting said base plate and said locator plate and being movable relative to one another to move said locator plate relative to said base plate, each of said actuators including a first end operatively connected to said base plate and a second end operatively connected to said locator plate, wherein said first end of a first actuator is paired with said first end of a second actuator at said base plate, and said first and second actuators extend divergently from said base plate to said locator plate such that said second end of said first actuator is paired with said second end of a third a actuator at said locator plate and said second end of said second actuator is paired with said second end of a fourth actuator at said locator plate; and a control circuit connected to said actuators for selectively actuating said actuators to move said locator plate to a predetermined position relative to said base plate and responsive to a force applied to said locator plate for actuating said actuators to change the applied force. 2. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 including a feedback circuit coupled to said actuators for generating feedback signals representing the force applied to said locator plate and for transmitting signals to said control circuit for actuating said actuators to reduce the applied force below a predetermined limit. 3. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said feedback means includes force sensing means measuring at least one of six generalized force components X, Y, M.sub.x, M.sub.y and M.sub.z in a generalized cartesian coordinate system associated with said base plate and said locator plate. 4. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said feedback means includes a plurality of position encoders, each said position encoder being coupled to an associated one of said actuators for generating an output signal representing movement of said associate actuator as one of said feedback signals. 5. An apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said actuators are screw type, back drivable, linear actuators and said encoders are rotary encoders coupled for rotation by said actuators. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said actuators are ball screw linear actuators having a brake for preventing back driving, said brake being connected to said control circuit and said control circuit being responsive to said feedback signals for releasing said brake to change the applied force. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said actuators are further defined as three pair of linear actuators with said first ends of each pair operatively connected to said base plate in a first triangular pattern and said second ends of each pair operatively connected to said locator plate in a second triangular pattern which is smaller than said first triangular pattern. 8. An apparatus for positioning an object comprising: a base plate comprising at least a first base junction and a second base junction; a locator plate comprising at least a first locator junction and a second locator junction; at least a first, second, and third actuator interconnecting said base plate and said locator plate and being movable relative to one another to move said locator plate relative to said base plate, each of said actuators including a first end operatively connected to said base plate and a second end operatively connected to said locator plate, wherein; said first ends of said first and second actuators are operatively connected to said base plate at said first base junction and said first end of said third actuator is operatively connected to said base plate as said second base junction, each of said actuators extending divergently from said base plate to said locator plate such that, said second end of said first actuator is operatively connected to said locator plate at said first locator junction, said second end of said second actuator is operatively connected to said locator plate at said second locator junction, and said second end of said third actuator is operatively connected to said locator plate at said second locator junction adjacent said second end of said second actuator; and a control circuit connected to said actuators for selectively actuating said actuators to move said locator plate to a predetermined position relative to said base plate and responsive to a force applied to said locator plate for actuating said actuators to change the applied force. 9. An apparatus as set forth in claim 8 wherein said first end of said second actuator is paired with said first end of said first actuator at said first base junction of said base plate and said second end of said second actuator is paired with said second end of said third actuator at said second locator junction. 10. An apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein said base plate further comprises a third base junction and said locator plate further comprises a third locator junction. 11. An apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein a midpoint of each of said base junctions defines a point in a first triangular pattern and a midpoint of each of said locator junctions defines a point in a second triangular pattern which is smaller than said first triangular pattern. 12. An apparatus as set forth in claim 10 further comprising a fourth, fifth, and sixth actuator. 13. An apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said first end of said fourth actuator is operatively connected to said base plate at said second base junction and said second end of said fourth actuator is operatively connected to said locator plate at said third locator junction. 14. An apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said first end of said fifth actuator is operatively connected to said base plate at said third base junction and said second end of said fifth actuator is operatively connected to said locator plate at said third locator junction. 15. An apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein said first end of said sixth actuator is operatively connected to said base plate at said third base junction and said second end of said sixth actuator is operatively connected to said locator plate at said first locator junction. 