A modular vial autosampler has a storage area for vials containing samples to be analyzed and at least one modular sampling station. A vial transfer mechanism includes an arm having a gripper that lifts a sample vial from the storage section, and the arm moves it to a station for identification and then to a sampling station, and under central control activates the sampling station for obtaining a sample for analysis. The vial transfer mechanism gripper is movable in X, Y, and Z directions to capture and move a selected vial and includes an alignment guide for the vials. Potentiometers are used for providing signals indicating arm position and the control is provided with updated information for calibration of the potentiometers and also updated position information for the arm relative to a fixed home position is obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vial autosampler, comprising: a vial storage station; a vial sampling station; and a robotic arm operable to transport a vial between the vial storage station and the vial sampling station, the robotic arm having a gripper head for grasping the vial; wherein the robotic arm further includes a stabilizing member that is spring loaded to the gripper head, and extendable from the gripper head in close proximity to the vial to reduce pivoting of the vial during transport. 2. A vial autosampler, comprising: a vial storage station; a vial sampling station; and a robotic arm operable to transport a vial between the vial storage station and the vial sampling station, the robotic arm having a gripper head for grasping the vial; wherein the robotic arm further includes a stabilizing member extendable from the gripper head in close proximity to the vial to reduce pivoting of the vial during transport; and wherein the stabilizing member movably mounts to the gripper head such that the stabilizing member retracts toward the gripper head as the gripper head approaches the vial. 3. A vial autosampler, comprising: a vial storage station; a vial sampling station; and a robotic arm operable to transport a vial between the vial storage station and the vial sampling station, the robotic arm having a gripper head for grasping the vial; wherein the robotic arm further includes a stabilizing member extendable from the gripper head in close proximity to the vial to reduce pivoting of the vial during transport; and wherein the stabilizing member comprises a ring having an inner diameter which is sized to the exterior of the vial. 4. The vial autosampler of claim 3, wherein the ring couples to the gripper head by at least one spring-loaded rod. 5. A vial autosampler, comprising: a vial storage station; a vial sampling station; and a robotic arm operable to transport a vial between the vial storage station and the vial sampling station, the robotic arm having a gripper head for grasping the vial; wherein the robotic arm further includes a stabilizing member extendable from the gripper head in close proximity to the vial to reduce pivoting of the vial during transport; and wherein the stabilizing member further has notches therein opening to the inner diameter to accommodate the grasping operation of the gripper head. 