A transmission or actuator offering multiple rotational outputs proportionate in speed to that of a common rotational input, each output according to its own ratio. The ratios are continuously variable between positive and negative values, including zero, and may be varied by electromechanical actuators under computer control. The transmission relates the output speeds one to another under computer control, and thus makes possible the establishment of virtual surfaces and other haptic effects in a multidimensional workspace to which the transmission outputs are kinematically linked. An example of such a workspace is that of a robotic or prosthetic hand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transmission system, comprising; a central input shaft, having a central axis of rotation, for coupling to a source of rotational motion; and a plurality of continuously variable transmission units coupled with the central input shaft, at least two of which are spaced from one another along the central axis of rotation of the central input shaft, each of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units coupling rotational motion from the central input shaft to a separate one of a plurality of rotating outputs, at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units having a transmission ratio that is adjustable independently from at least one of the other of the continuously variable transmission units; wherein, each of the at least two continuously variable transmission units that are spaced from one another along the central axis of the central input shaft is comprised of a sphere, contacting the central input shaft, for coupling the central input shaft with one of the plurality of rotating outputs, and at least one steering roller in contact with the sphere, the steering angle of the at least one steering roller determining at least in part the transmission ratio of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units. 2. The transmission system of claim 1, further comprising a second steering roller, wherein the steering rollers are coupled for synchronous rotation of their steering angles. 3. The transmission system of claim 1, further comprising a rotational sensor coupled to at least one of the steering rollers for sensing the steering angles of the steering rollers. 4. The transmission system of claim 1, further comprising an actuator for steering at least one of the steering rollers. 5. The transmission system of claim 1, wherein the actuator is comprised of an ultrasonic motor. 6. The transmission system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of rotating outputs is coupled with a pulley. 7. The transmission system of claim 6, wherein the at least one of the plurality of rotating outputs is coupled with the pulley through a gear reduction. 8. The transmission system of claim 1, wherein the transmission ratio of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units is adjustable between negative ratios, in which the central input shaft and the rotary output of each of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units rotate in opposite directions, and positive ratios, in which the central input shaft and the rotating output of each of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units rotate in the same direction, including a transmission ratio of zero, in which the rotary output of the each of the at least one continuously variable transmission units does not rotate when the central input shaft rotates. 9. A transmission system, comprising; a central input shaft, with a central axis of rotation, for coupling to a source of rotational motion; and a plurality of continuously variable transmission units, at least two of which continuously variable transmission units are arrayed circumferentially around a central input shaft in a layer, and at least two of which are spaced from one another along the central axis of rotation of the central input shaft; each of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units coupling rotational motion from the central input shaft to a separate one of a plurality of rotating outputs and comprising a sphere, contacting the central input shaft, for coupling the central input shaft with one of the plurality of rotating outputs, and at least one independently steerable steering roller in contact with the sphere, the steering angle of the steering roller determining at least in part the transmission ratio of the continuously variable transmission unit. 10. The transmission system of claim 9, wherein the layer in which the plurality of transmission units is positioned at a first axial location on the central input position, and wherein the transmission system further comprises a second plurality of continuously variable transmission units arrayed circumferentially around the central input shaft in a second layer positioned at a second axial location on the central input shaft. 11. The transmission system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of continuously variable transmission units is supported by a body structure, and wherein the body structure is comprised of two parts that, when connected, preloads rolling contacts between the sphere and the steering roller and the sphere and an output roller coupled with the rotational output. 12. The transmission system of claim 11, wherein each of the two parts of the support structure is comprised of a generally disk-shaped element. 13. The transmission system of claim 9, wherein the transmission ratio of each continuously variable transmission units is adjustable between negative ratios, in which the central input shaft and the rotary output of each of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units rotate in opposite directions, and positive ratios, in which the central input shaft and the rotating output of each of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units rotate in the same direction, including a transmission ratio of zero, in which the rotary output of the each of the at least one continuously variable transmission units does not rotate when the central input shaft rotates. 14. A robotic system comprising: at least one robotic limb having a plurality of joints; a source of rotational motion; and a transmission system, comprising, a central input shaft, having a central axis of rotation, for coupling to the source of rotational motion; and a plurality of continuously variable transmission units coupled with the central input shaft, at least two of which are spaced from one another along the central axis of rotation of the central input shaft, each of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units comprising a sphere contacting the central input shaft for coupling rotational motion from the central input shaft to a separate one of a plurality of rotating outputs, at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units having a transmission ratio that is adjustable independently from at least one of the other of the continuously variable transmission units; each of the plurality of continuously variable outputs coupled to different ones of the plurality of joints. 15. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of continuously variable transmission units are arrayed circumferentially around the central input shaft. 16. The transmission system of claim 14, wherein at least one of the continuously variable transmission units is comprised of a sphere for coupling the central input shaft with one of the plurality of rotating outputs, and at least one steering roller in contact with the sphere, the steering angle of the at least one steering roller determining at least in part the transmission ratio of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units. 17. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein the robotic limb comprises a cobot. 18. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein the robotic limb comprises a prosthetic limb. 19. The transmission system of claim 14, wherein the transmission ratio of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units is adjustable between negative ratios, in which the central input shaft and the rotary output of each of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units rotate in opposite directions, and positive ratios, in which the central input shaft and the rotating output of each of the at least one of the plurality of continuously variable transmission units rotate in the same direction, including a transmission ratio of zero, in which the rotary output of the each of the at least one continuously variable transmission units does not rotate when the central input shaft rotates. 