A flexible vacuum gripper device and method of gripping. The device includes a housing, an inflatable gripper element defining an internal chamber and being radially or circumferentially expandable, the inflatable gripper element having a front end which is adapted to grip an object and a rear end coupled to the housing, a vacuum source communicating with the internal chamber of the inflatable gripper element, and a pressure source communicating with the inflatable gripper, wherein the vacuum gripper device is adapted to grip the object using vacuum formed in the internal chamber and wherein the inflatable gripper element is adapted to be inflated using the pressure source. The method includes adjusting a position of the flexible gripper element with respect to the housing by moving the flexible gripper element towards or away from the housing, positioning the inflatable gripper against the object, inflating the inflatable gripper using the pressure source, and forming a vacuum in the internal chamber using the vacuum source, wherein the vacuum gripper device is adapted to vacuum grip the object while the inflatable gripper element is inflated.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A flexible vacuum gripper device comprising: a housing; an inflatable gripper element defining an internal chamber and comprising a rear portion coupled to the housing and a front portion which can be one of radially and circumferentially expandable; the front end being conformable to the shape of an object and being expandable by inflation when not gripping the object; a vacuum source communicating with the internal chamber of the inflatable gripper element; a pressure source communicating with the inflatable gripper element; and at least one of; a movable gripper support being fixed to the rear end portion of the gripper element for allowing the gripper element to move axially with respect to the housing, and the front end portion of the gripper element comprising a plurality of folds which are arranged substantially parallel to an axis through the housing and the inflatable gripper element, wherein the vacuum gripper device is adapted to grip the object using vacuum formed in the internal chamber and wherein the inflatable gripper element is adapted to be inflated using the pressure source. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the rear portion of the inflatable gripper element is non-expandably coupled to the movable gripper support. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the housing comprises a front end which engagingly supports an outside surface of the inflatable gripper element. 4. The device of claim 1, further comprising a movable support which engagingly supports an outside surface of the inflatable gripper element. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the inflatable gripper element comprises an inner wall, an outer wall, and at least one inflatable chamber disposed between the inner and outer walls. 6. The device of claim 1, further comprising a viewing device adapted to view the internal chamber of the inflatable gripper element. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the movable gripper support is coupled to movable extender rod disposed within the housing. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the movable extender rod comprises a tube which adapted to receive a viewing device and wherein the device further comprises a lens cap disposed at a front end of the extender rod. 9. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a movable support having a front end which adjustably supports an outside surface of the inflatable gripper element, and the inflatable gripper element comprising an inner wall, an outer wall, and at least one inflatable chamber disposed between the inner and outer walls. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of folds allow the inflatable gripper element to expand radially, and further comprising a plurality of gripper supports attached to the inflatable gripper element. 11. The device of claim 1, further comprising: at least one vacuum conduit disposed within the housing; and at least one pressure conduit disposed within the housing, wherein the vacuum conduit connects the vacuum source to the internal chamber and wherein the pressure conduit connects the pressure source to the inflatable gripper element. 12. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a movable support having a front end which adjustably supports an outside surface of the inflatable gripper element, the inflatable gripper element comprising an inner wall, an outer wall, and at least one inflatable chamber disposed between the inner and outer walls which capable of being inflated, and the inflatable gripper element comprising a plurality of gripper supports attached to the inflatable gripper element. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein at least the front portion of inflatable gripper element comprises a textured surface which is adapted to ensure a significant amount vacuum gripping between the inflatable gripper element and the object. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the pressure source and the vacuum source is attached to the housing. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein the inflatable gripper element comprises one of a circular cross-sectional shape and a polygonal cross-sectional shape. 16. The device of claim 1, further comprising a robot arm coupled to the housing. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the housing is one of axially flexible and axially bendable. 18. The device of claim 1, further comprising a mechanism for additionally retaining the object, the mechanism comprising at least two substantially oppositely arranged arms which are movable towards and away from the object. 19. A flexible vacuum gripper device comprising: a housing having a front end; a gripper element defining an internal chamber and being radially or circumferentially expandable; the gripper element comprising an inner wall, an outer wall, a plurality of stitches connecting the inner wall and the outer wall, and at least one inflatable chamber disposed between the inner and outer walls which capable of being inflated; the inflatable gripper element having an expandable and conformable front end which is adapted to grip an object and a rear end coupled to the front end of the housing; a vacuum source communicating with the internal chamber of the inflatable gripper element; a pressure source communicating with the inflatable gripper element; and one of; a movable gripper support being fixed to the rear end of the gripper element for allowing the gripper element to move axially with respect to the housing, or the front end of the gripper element comprising a plurality of folds which are arranged substantially parallel to an axis through the housing, wherein the inflatable gripper element is adapted to be inflated using the pressure source. 20. A method of gripping an object using a flexible vacuum gripper device which includes a housing, an inflatable gripper element defining an internal chamber and being radially expandable, the inflatable gripper element having a front end adapted to grip an object and a rear end coupled to the housing, a vacuum source communicating with the internal chamber of the inflatable gripper element, and a pressure source communicating with the inflatable gripper element, the method comprising: adjusting a position of the inflatable gripper element with respect to the housing by moving the inflatable gripper element towards or away from the housing; positioning the inflatable gripper element against the object; inflating the inflatable gripper element using the pressure source; and forming a vacuum in the internal chamber using the vacuum source, wherein the vacuum gripper device is adapted to vacuum grip the object while the inflatable gripper element is inflated, and wherein the inflatable gripper element is radially expandable by inflation when not gripping the object. 