An autonomous remote controlled vehicle for use in the automation of an existing refrigerated flow through storage facility food processing application. The remote vehicle is specifically designed to operate within a network of centrally controlled remote vehicles that are adapted to receive selectable items from production and temporarily store them for later retrieval. The system is adapted to minimize travel time for the remote vehicle and optimize cycle time. The system is specifically adapted to handle cardboard shipping boxes containing meat products.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote vehicle for handling items to be stored to and retrieved from a flow through storage facility comprising: a) an upright chassis having an upper and lower portion and having a carriage supported thereby and an elevation mechanism for said carriage operatively connected to said chassis; b) a mechanical arm operatively connected to said carriage and adapted to extend substantially horizontal from said carriage over an item stored in a flow through bin and retract; c) a finger member operatively connected to said arm and adapted to selectively extend substantially vertical down from said arm, wherein retraction of the arm that is extended over the item having the finger extended downward and adjacent the item pulls the item onto the carriage; d) an over head traction mechanism attached to the upper portion of said upright chassis and said traction mechanism is adapted to operatively translate along and suspend from an over head guidance structure where said lower portion is freely suspended; and e) an on-board controller in operative communication with the elevation mechanism and the mechanical arm and adapted to receive a control signal from a central controller and adapted to selectively control the elevation mechanism and arm. 2. A remote vehicle for handling items to be stored and retrieved from a storage facility comprising: a) an upright chassis frame having a pair of elongated vertically oriented frame members, said vertically oriented frame members disposed at opposing ends of the chassis frame, having a pair of respective upper and lower portions and having an interior hollow volume and said pair of vertically oriented frame members are connected at their respective upper portions by a rigid bridge frame member; b) a pair of elevator lift systems housed in the hollow interior of each of the pair of vertically oriented frame members; c) a plurality of track wheels each operatively attached to the bridge frame member of said chassis by an axle member; d) an over-head track rail system adapted to engage the plurality of track wheels and freely suspend the chassis from said overhead track rail and said track wheels adapted to translate on said track rail and said track rail system having a power rail source adapted to conduct electrical power over the track rail to the remote vehicle; e) a carriage having a horizontal platform and a pair of opposing vertically oriented side walls each operatively connected to one of the pair of elevator lift systems such that the carriage is lifted and lowered by the elevator lift system; f) a mechanical arm adapted to extend substantially horizontal from said carriage over an item and transfer said item onto and off of the horizontal platform of the carriage; and g) an on-board controller in operative communication with the elevator lift system and the mechanical arm and adapted to selectively control the elevator and arm for controlling transfer of items on and off the carriage platform and elevating the platform to the desired height, wherein the freely suspended remote vehicle does not require dedicated floor space for operation. 3. The remote vehicle of claim 2, further comprising: a) a positioning sensor operatively attached to the upright chassis frame and adapted to sense a spatial position of the remote vehicle with respect to other objects; and b) an absolute encoder sensor attached to the upright chassis frame adapted to sense a distance and a direction traveled by the remote vehicle, wherein the positioning sensor and absolute encoding sensor combination provide the necessary information for guidance of the remote vehicle and collision avoidance. 4. The remote vehicle of claim 2, further comprising: a) an elevator sensor adapted to sense the vertical spatial relationship of the elevator platform with respect to a bin shelf so that the elevator platform can be positioned at the correct height. 5. The remote vehicle of claim 2, wherein the chassis frame has a depth less than 50% of the width of any passage within its possible paths within a flow through storage facility. 6. The remote vehicle of claim 2, wherein the track rail system is a pair of parallel track rails. 7. The remote vehicle of claim 2, wherein the carriage platform comprises: a) a plurality of parallel skid tracks; b) a plurality of support members attached to said skid tracks in a perpendicular crossing pattern, wherein the skid tracks extend perpendicularly beyond the crossing support members forming a plurality of skid track prongs where said prongs are adapted to be pressed against a stationary object to stabilize the carriage platform's position and to prevent the stationery object from moving. 8. The remote vehicle of claim 2 further comprising: a) an on board transmit and receive wireless communication system adapted to transmit and receive control signals and status signals to and from a central network and the onboard controller. 9. The remote vehicle of claim 8, wherein the communication system is an RF communication system. 10. The remote vehicle of claim 2, further comprising: a) a set of sensors operatively attached to said carriage and adapted to sense a spatial relationship of the arm with respect to an item to be moved and said set of sensors having an operative communication link to said on-board controller to identify when the arm is in position to move the item on or off the platform. 11. The remote vehicle of claim 10, wherein the mechanical arm comprises: a) a pair of fixed rack members, each attached to opposing sidewalls of the carriage and each having a plurality of fixed rack and pinion interfacing teeth; b) a pair of parallel telescoped rack members wherein each further comprise adjacent inner and outer rack members connected along a telescoping tongue and groove track interface and where the inner and outer racks respectively have a plurality of inner rack and outer rack and pinion interfacing teeth; c) a pair of pinion drive gears coupled to each of the outer pinion interfacing teeth to drive the outer racks; d) a pair of pinion follower gears connected to each of the outer racks by an axle about which the pinion follower rotates and said pinion follower is couple between the fixed rack pinion interfacing teeth and the inner rack pinion interfacing teeth, wherein the inner rack is driven in a telescoping relationship to the outer rack. e) a bridge frame member connected between the pair of parallel telescoped rack members; and f) a plurality of finger members adapted to extend down from the bridge frame member, wherein when the telescoped rack members are extended or retracted and the fingers are extended down, items in the fingers path are moved. 12. The remote vehicle of claim 11, where the fingers are elongated members attached by an end to the bridge frame member in a recessed volume of the bridge by a finger axle member and said finger is rotatable about said finger axle member. 13. The remote vehicle of claim 12, wherein the retractable fingers are adapted to be independently controlled by the onboard controller and are fully variable within about a 90.degree. range of motion. 14. The remote vehicle of claim 12, wherein the fingers members are retractable and are adapted to be independently controlled by a controller and are fully variable within about a 90.degree. range of motion. 15. The remote vehicle of claim 2, further comprising: a) a conveyor drive mechanism operatively attached to said carriage and adapted to engage and drive a skid conveyor for stowing an empty skid and having a communication link to the on-board controller, and the controller is adapted to selectively control the conveyor drive. 16. The remote vehicle of claim 15, wherein the conveyor drive mechanism further comprises: a) a telescope drive mechanism; and b) a telescope extension member powered by said telescope drive and operatively connected to the conveyor drive mechanism such that the conveyor drive can be extended to engage a conveyor drive interface for driving a skid conveyor. 17. The remote vehicle of claim 16, where the conveyor drive mechanism is an electrically powered motor and gear mechanism operatively attached to a telescoped rod, and said motor adapted to drive said gear. 18. The remote vehicle of claim 2, further comprising: a) an item identification sensor attached to the carriage adapted to sense and decode an identification tag attached to an item to be transferred onto the carriage platform. 19. The remote vehicle of claim 18, wherein the item identification sensor is a bar code reader adapted to read a bar coded identification tag attached to the item to be transferred onto the carriage platform. 20. An item moving arm for moving items on and off a platform comprising: a) a chassis having a pair of fixed rack members wherein the fixed rack members each have a plurality of fixed pinion interfacing teeth; b) a pair of parallel telescoped rack members wherein each of the pair of telescoped rack members comprise adjacent inner and outer rack members connected along a telescoping tongue and groove track interface and where the inner and outer racks respectively have a plurality of inner and outer pinion interfacing teeth; c) a pinion drive gear coupled to each of the outer pinion interfacing teeth to drive the outer racks; d) a pinion follower connected to each of the outer racks by an axle about which the pinion follower rotates and said pinion follower is coupled between the fixed pinion interfacing teeth and the inner pinion interfacing teeth wherein the inner rack is driven in a telescoping relationship to the outer rack; e) a bridge frame member connected between the pair of inner rack members; and f) a plurality of finger members adapted to extend down from the bridge frame, where when the parallel telescope rack members are controllably extended or retracted by the pinion drive gear and the fingers are extended, items in the fingers' path are moved. 21. The item moving arm of claim 20, wherein the plurality of finger members are elongated members attached by one end to the bridge frame in a recessed volume of the bridge frame by an axle member and said finger is rotateable about said axle member. 22. A method of automation for a flow through storage meat processing facility comprising the steps of: a) conveying a selectable production item from a production area to a centrally located group of flow through storage bins at a lumping station adjacent the flow through bins; b) positioning a remotely controlled vehicle between the lumping station and the flow through bins where said remote vehicle has a controllable elevator platform and mechanical arm with a plurality of independently controlled finger members adapted to controllably extend down from the arm; c) elevating the elevator platform to an elevation that is the same as the lumping station height; d) extending the controllable arm over the top of the production item when the item arrives at the lumping station; e) extending vertically down behind the item the finger members necessary to move a selected item; f) drawing the items on to the elevator platform by retracting the arm; g) positioning the remote vehicle adjacent a selected flow through storage bin on a lumping side; h) elevating vertically the elevator platform to an open slot elevation; i) extending vertically down behind the selectable item the selectable fingers necessary to move the selectable item; and j) pushing the selectable item off the elevator platform into an open slot. 23. The method of claim 22, where drawing the item on to the elevator platform further comprises the step of: a) detecting a largest set of items destined for bins in close proximity to one another that have arrived at the lumping station and that will fit on the elevator platform in order to minimize travel time and optimize cycle time; and b) drawing the set of items onto the elevator platform. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of: a) detecting that a front skid in the flow through bin on the lumping side is at maximum capacity; b) transferring an empty skid from stowage onto the remote vehicle elevator platform; and c) inserting from the elevator platform the empty skid into the flow through bin at the front skid location. 25. The method of claim 24, where transferring an empty skid from stowage comprising the step of: a) engaging an empty skid stowage conveyor which is integral with the flow through storage bins and is used to stow empty skids; b) powering the skid stowage conveyor such that it conveys an empty skid toward the lumping side; c) positioning the elevator platform of the remote vehicle to receive the empty skid; d) hooking the empty skid with a hooking mechanism e) pulling the empty skid onto the platform; and f) receiving the empty skid. 26. A method of automation for a flow through storage meat processing facility comprising the steps of: a) positioning a remotely controlled vehicle adjacent a flow through bin on a picking side of the bin where said remote vehicle has a controllable elevator platform and a mechanical arm with a plurality of independently controlled finger members adapted to controllably extend down from the arm; b) elevating the elevator platform to a height of a row of items where an item to be retrieved is located; c) extending the controllable arm over the selectable item; d) extending vertically down behind the selectable item the finger members that are necessary to move the item; e) retracting the arm and finger combination drawing the item item onto the platform; f) positioning vertically the elevator platform to a picking conveyor elevation and continuing translation of the arm in a retracting direction; and g) transferring the selectable item off an opposing side of the elevator platform and on to a picking conveyor that circles the flow through bins for transport to shipping. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising the steps of: a) detecting that no items remain on an empty skid; b) hooking and pulling the empty skid out of the flow through bin and onto the elevator platform with an extendable hooking mechanism; c) elevating the elevator platform to an empty skid stowage rack height; d) extending the finger members fully such that the end of the fingers are positioned adjacent an edge of the skid which is furthest from the flow through bins; e) pushing the skid off of the elevator platform with the hooking mechanism and the fingers; and f) stowing the skid on the skid stowage rack. 