There is provided a method for using a toy for effecting sales over a public network, the method comprising: providing a toy having interactive speaking and listening functionality; connecting the toy via a public network to at least one server having transactional functionality; and effecting sales by employing the transactional functionality via the interactive speaking and listening functionality of said toy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for using a toy for effecting sales over a public network, the method comprising: providing a toy having interactive speaking and listening functionality; connecting said toy via a public network to at least one server having transactional functionality; and effecting sales by employing said transactional functionality via the interactive speaking and listening functionality of said toy. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of effecting sales comprises employing said interactive speaking and listening functionality of said toy as an interface between a customer and the transactional functionality. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of effecting resulting sales comprises using the speaking and listening functionality to obtain payment authorization from the user. 4. A method according to claim 1 and also comprising recording sales effected through said toy and crediting a commercial entity associated with the toy. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of providing comprises providing a toy having a persona and wherein said step of effecting sales comprises providing a script according to which said interactive speaking and listening functionality operates. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein the script matches the persona of the toy. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of effecting sales comprises actuating said toy to execute a reinforcing response if a sale is effected and to execute a negative response if a sale is not effected. 8. A method according to claim 1 and also comprising obtaining information regarding at least one users interacting with the toy and wherein said step of effecting sales is effected by differential operation of the interactive speaking and listening functionality for different users, depending on said information regarding said different users. 9. A method according to claim 1 and also comprising: accepting a filtering request from a user; and modifying the scope of the sales effecting step responsive to said filtering request. 10. A method for using a toy for promoting sales over a public network, the method comprising: providing a toy having interactive speaking and listening functionality; connecting said toy via a public network to at least one server providing at least one sales promotion scripts; actuating said interactive speaking and listening functionality of said toy, using at least one sales promotion scripts; and recording at least one parameter characterizing a user's response to said at least one sales promotion scripts. 11. A method according to claim 10 and also comprising automatically billing at least one entities associated respectively with the at least one sales promotion scripts, depending on the user's response to said at least one sales promotion scripts. 12. A method according to claim 10 and also comprising: accepting a filtering request from a user; and modifying the scope of the actuating step responsive to said filtering request. 13. A method according to claim 10 wherein said step of actuating comprises providing a user with an entitlement to a discount, at a sales outlet. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said step of entitlement providing comprises the step of printing out a coupon. 15. A method for using a toy for enhancing television rating, the method comprising: providing a toy having interactive speaking and listening functionality; connecting said toy via a public network to at least one server providing at least one scripts promoting viewing of at least one program of an individual television channel; actuating said interactive speaking and listening functionality of said toy, using at least one viewing promoting scripts. 16. A method according to claim 15 and also comprising recording at least one parameter characterizing a user's response to said at least one sales promotion scripts. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein said step of recording comprises recognizing a broadcast of the program. 18. A method according to claim 16 wherein said step of recording comprises directly monitoring the user's response. 19. A method according to claim 15 and also comprising automatically billing at least one entities associated respectively with the at least one viewing promoting scripts, depending on the user's response to said at least one viewing promoting scripts. 