Apparatus for multi-chambered semiconductor wafer processing comprising a polygonal structure having at least two semiconductor process chambers disposed on one side. An area between the process chambers provides a maintenance access to the semiconductor processing equipment. Additionally, the apparatus may be clustered or daisy-chained together to enable a wafer to access additional processing chambers without leaving the controlled environment of the semiconductor wafer processing equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor workpiece processing apparatus comprising: at least one polygonal structure having a lid and a plurality of sides; and at least one of said sides having at least two process chambers disposed thereupon, defining an access area to said polygonal structure between said process chambers. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a first buffer chamber disposed in said at least one polygonal structure, and a second buffer chamber disposed in said at least one polygonal structure. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising: at least one wafer transfer location disposed within said polygonal structure. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said wafer transfer location is a chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first and second buffer chambers further comprise: a first and a second lid disposed above said first and second buffer chambers, respectively, thereby defining a single environment within said first and second buffer chambers. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first and second buffer chambers further comprise: a plurality of slit valves disposed about and selectively isolating said first and second buffer chamber, and a first and a second lid disposed above said first and second buffer chambers, respectively, thereby defining a first and second environment within said first and second buffer chambers, respectively. 7. A semiconductor workpiece processing apparatus comprising: at least one polygonal structure having a plurality of sides; a buffer chamber disposed within said at least one polygonal structure; a lid disposed above said at least one polygonal structure thereby defining a single environment within said buffer chamber; at least two wafer transfer mechanisms disposed within said buffer chamber; and a first and a second process chamber disposed on one of said sides defining an access area between said first and said second process chambers and said one side. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: at least six slit valves disposed within said buffer chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a single vacuum port. 