A printhead assembly includes a body defining a seat for a printhead and having a dividing member. A plurality of fluid storage galleries is arranged on one side of the dividing member. A plurality of feed passages is arranged on an opposed side of the dividing member, each feed passage having a first end in communication with one of the galleries and an opposed end opening out into the seat. A printhead is mounted in the seat such that fluid fed from the galleries is supplied to at least one printhead chip of the printhead.
Claims We claim: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a seat-defining formation defining a seat for accommodating a printhead; a printhead mounted in said seat, the printhead including at least one printhead chip; a dividing member, having two opposite sides, extending from said formation; a plurality of fluid storage galleries arranged on one said side; and a plurality of feed passages arranged on the opposite side, each feed passage having a first end in communication with a respective one of the galleries and an opposite end opening out into the seat to enable the feeding of fluid from the respective gallery to the at least one printhead chip. 2. The assembly of claim 1 comprising a plurality of separating elements projecting from said one side, the separating elements being arranged to define respective channels between adjacent pair of elements, each channel constituting at least part of a respective gallery. 3. The assembly of claim 2 comprising a closure member secured to the separating elements to close off the channels, such that the closure member together with the separating elements define the galleries. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the dividing member defines a plurality of discrete canals on said opposite side, each canal constituting a respective feed passage. 5. The assembly of claim 4 comprising a cover member which closes off the canals such that said feed passages are closed passages. 6. The assembly of claim 5 in wherein the cover member has an inner surface facing into said canals, and an opposite, outer surface, the assembly including conductive elements disposed on said outer surface, the conductive elements being configured to provide control signals to said at least one printhead chip. 7. The assembly of claim 6 wherein the cover member is a molded member and the conductive elements have been formed on said outer surface by hot stamping during molding of the cover member. 8. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the seat-defining member has a first side and a second side opposite the first side, with the seat being defined in the first side and the dividing member extending from the second side. 9. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the seat-defining member has a first side and second side opposite the first side, with the seat being defined in the first side, wherein the galleries are arranged side-by-side, with a first gallery being positioned adjacent the second side and the remaining galleries being arranged successively, in a direction away from said second side. 