Arrays of biological tissue can be created by removing cores from regions of interest in a series of donor blocks of embedded tissues. The cores removed are placed in a regular array in a recipient block. This is typically done with two different punches, one for obtaining the cores of interest and the other for creating the receiving holes in the recipient block. The present invention comprises such a system including a single z axis, with a mechanism for automatically changing two or more punches in and out of a holder on the z axis.
Claims I claim: 1. An instrument for constructing arrays of tissue in a recipient block, the instrument comprising: first and second punch units, each punch unit comprising a punch including a punch hub and a stylet including a stylet hub, means for holding at least one donor block, means for holding at least one recipient block, gripper means for releasably precisely holding one of said punches at a time, means associated with said gripper for moving said stylet hub relative to said punch hub, means for precisely moving and positioning said punch hub relative to at least one of said donor and recipient block holders, wherein said gripper means is adapted for receiving, moving, and releasing said punches individually. 2. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein said gripper is provided with means for movement in the z axis. 3. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein said donor and recipient block holders are provided with means for movement in the x and y axes for selectively repositioning said recipient block holder and said donor block holder relative to said gripper. 4. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein said donor block and recipient block holders are provided on a turntable rotatable about a z axis. 5. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein one or more of the motions are under computer or manual control via powered drives. 6. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein the donor block holder and the recipient block holder are provided on different platforms. 7. The instrument as in claim 6, wherein one of said the donor block holding platform and recipient block holding platform is moveable in at least one of an x and y axis, and wherein the other of said platforms is formed by a turntable rotatable about the z axis. 8. The instrument as in claim 1, wherein the donor block holder and the recipient block holder are provided on the same platform. 9. An instrument as in claim 1, further comprising an amount of compliant wadding material provided inside the punch at the tip of the stylet. 10. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein said compliant wadding material is an elastomer. 11. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein said stylets are driven by an actuator. which can exert controlled forces. 12. An instrument as in claim 1, wherein the stroke length of said stylets can be controlled via said stylet actuators. 13. An instrument as in claim 12, wherein the stylet actuators are controlled for stroke length via a computer. 14. An instrument as in claim 1, further comprising a magazine containing blocks, and operatively associated with means for providing blocks to said instrument and/or receiving blocks from said instrument. 