Wafer preparation systems and methods for wafer preparation are provided. The wafer preparation system includes a scrubber unit and a dryer unit arranged vertically with the dryer unit above the scrubber unit. The scrubber unit is configured to receive a wafer for mechanical scrub cleaning, and the dryer unit is configured to receive the wafer from the scrubber unit for drying after the mechanical scrub cleaning. The cleaning and the drying are accomplished with the wafer in a vertical orientation. An edge holder attached to a lifter rod lifts the wafer through the scrubber unit to the dryer unit. The method for wafer preparation includes receiving a wafer in a scrubbing station and lifting the wafer internally from the scrubbing station to the drying station that is located above the scrubbing station in a vertical arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer preparation system, comprising: a scrubber unit configured to receive a wafer for mechanical scrub cleaning; and a dryer unit arranged vertically above the scrubber unit and configured to receive and dry the wafer after the mechanical scrub cleaning, wherein the scrubber unit includes a first slot opening from which the wafer is received and a second slot opening that is different from the first slot opening and leads to the dryer unit. 2. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 1, wherein the dryer unit having a first housing side and a second housing side, the first housing side being configured to join with the second housing side in a closed position and separate from the second housing side in a position that is other than the closed position. 3. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 2, wherein the second housing side is positioned in a fixed orientation relative to the scrubber unit and the first housing side is movable with respect to the second housing side. 4. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 3, wherein the first housing side is movable in a direction that is perpendicular to a vertical direction. 5. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 4, wherein the scrubber unit includes a first slot opening from which the wafer is received and a second slot opening that is different from the first slot opening and leads to the dryer unit, and the wafer is configured to be transitioned from within the scrubber unit through the second slot opening and into the dryer unit. 6. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a lifter rod having a first end and a second end, and an edge holder, the edge holder being attached to the lifter rod at the first end, and the edge holder being configured to support the wafer in a vertical orientation. 7. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 6, wherein the lifter rod is configured to transition the wafer from the scrubber unit to the dryer unit. 8. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 6, further comprising: a lifter rod controller for moving the lifter rod through the scrubber unit and to the dryer unit. 9. A wafer preparation system as recited in claim 8, wherein the lifter rod controller is one of a servo motor, a pneumatic system, a linear actuator system, and a hydraulic system for raising and lowering the lifter rod. 10. A method for preparing a wafer, comprising: receiving a wafer in a scrubbing station through a first slot opening; closing the first slot opening to seal the scrubbing station; opening a second slot opening; lifting the wafer from the scrubbing station through the second slot opening to a drying station that is vertically arranged over the scrubbing station. 11. A method for preparing a wafer as recited in claim 10, wherein the receiving of the wafer through the first slot opening is located at other than above the scrubbing station. 12. A method for preparing a wafer as recited in claim 11, wherein the lifting of the wafer is from within and out from above the scrubbing station. 13. A method for preparing a wafer as recited in claim 10, wherein the wafer is received in the drying station from the scrubbing station. 14. A method for preparing a wafer as recited in claim 10, further comprising: transitioning the wafer out of the drying station. 15. A wafer scrubbing and drying apparatus, comprising: a scrubber unit having scrub brushes oriented to scrub a wafer that is in a vertical orientation; and a dryer unit positioned over a top region of the scrubber unit, the dryer unit being configured to receive the wafer from a slot in the top region of the scrubber unit in the vertical orientation, and wherein the dryer unit is configured to transition to one of an open position, a load/unload position and a closed position. 16. A wafer scrubbing and drying apparatus as recited in claim 15, further comprising: a lifter rod having a first end and a second end; an edge holder attached to the first end of the lifter rod and configured to hold the wafer in a vertical orientation; and a lifter controller configured to raise the lifter rod through the scrubber unit to the dryer unit. 17. A semiconductor wafer preparation apparatus, comprising: a wafer cleaning station; and a drying station mounted over the wafer cleaning station, wherein the wafer cleaning station is configured to be sealed as a closed system and the drying station is configured to be sealed as a closed system. 18. A semiconductor wafer preparation apparatus as recited in claim 17, further comprising: a lifter rod having a first end and a second end; and an edge holder being connected to the first end of the lifter rod. 19. A semiconductor wafer preparation apparatus as recited in claim 18, wherein the edge holder is configured to support a wafer in a vertical orientation. 20. A semiconductor wafer preparation apparatus as recited in claim 19, wherein the lifter rod is configured to lift the edge holder supporting the wafer through the wafer cleaning station and to the drying station. 21. A semiconductor wafer preparation apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the drying station is configured to perform one or more of a spin, a dry, a rinse, and a chemical application. 