The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of excising a plurality of small regions of an electrophoresis gel comprising resolved proteins, said method comprising steps of: (a) staining said gel; (b) laying said gel loose on an imaging table; (c) scanning said gel to yield a digitized image; (d) inputting said image into an image processor for identifying a plurality of protein-containing regions in said gel; (e) laying said gel loose on a spot cutting table; (f) excising said protein-containing regions from said gel by means of a computer-controlled movable excising device on the basis of coordinates supplied by said image processor; and (g) depositing said protein-containing regions in a plurality of vessels. 2. A method of excising a plurality of small regions of a electrophoresis gel as set forth in claim 1, wherein said excising device comprises a tube-like cutter and a central piston within said cutter, said cutter and said piston being moved coaxially by a computer-controlled means to cut, retrieve and expel a plug of said gel. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2, wherein in said excising step, said tube-like cutter applies suction to said plug for picking up said plug. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, further comprises a moving step wherein after said staining step, said gel is moved onto a generally horizontal surface for said scanning step. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said gel is laid down smoothly without tension on said generally horizontal surface. 6. The method as set forth in claim 5, wherein said gel remains on said generally horizontal surface for said excising step. 