A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addresses and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process of operating a microprocessor comprising: A. setting a first number, defining a number of wait states, in a first register by loading data signals representing the first number into the first register from a data bus that extends to an external address space; B. setting a second number, defining a number of wait states, in a second register by loading data signals representing the second number into the second register from the data bus; C. using the first number in the first register to insert that first number of wait states between addressing a first segment of the external address space and receiving data from the first segment of external address space; and D. using the second number in the second register to insert that second number of wait states between addressing a second segment of the external address space and receiving data from the second segment of external address space. 2. The process of claim 1 in which the setting a first number includes setting a first number to be a binary number of from zero through fifteen and the setting a second number includes setting a second number to be a binary number of from zero through fifteen. 3. The process of claim 1 in which the setting a first number includes setting a first number to be a binary number of four bits and the setting a second number includes setting a second number to be a binary number of four bits. 