A system and method for intra-operatively providing a surgeon with visual evaluations of possible surgical outcomes ahead of time, and generating simulated data, includes a medical imaging camera, a registration device for registering data to a physical space, and to the medical imaging camera, and a fusion mechanism for fusing the data and the images to generate simulated data, without correcting for distortion. The simulated data (e.g., such as augmented X-ray images) is natural and easy for a surgeon to interpret. In an exemplary implementation, the system preferably includes a data processor which receives a three-dimensional surgical plan or three-dimensional plan of therapy delivery, one or a plurality of two-dimensional intra-operative images, a three-dimensional model of pre-operative data, registration data, and image calibration data. The data processor produces one or a plurality of simulated post-operative images, without correcting for distortion, by integrating a projection of a three-dimensional model of pre-operative data onto one or a plurality of two-dimensional intra-operative images.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiographic imaging system for generating two-dimensional simulated radiographic images, comprising: a medical imaging device for generating two-dimensional radiographic images that are subject to distortion and comprise distorted two-dimensional radiographic images; a registration device for registering two-dimensional shape data, corresponding to three-dimensional shape data of a device, to a three-dimensional physical space, and said medical imaging device located in said three-dimensional physical space; and a fusion mechanism for fusing said two-dimensional shape data and said distorted two-dimensional radiographic images, to generate said two-dimensional simulated radiographic images. 2. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 1, further comprising: another medical imaging device for collecting said three-dimensional shape data. 3. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 2, wherein said another imaging device comprises an X-ray, computed tomography (CT) scanner. 4. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 1, wherein said two-dimensional shape data correspond to pre-operative radiographic data and said distorted two-dimensional radiographic images comprise intra-operative radiographic images. 5. The radiographic imaging system according to clam 4, wherein said pre-operative radiographic data comprises data of a surgical plan that includes a postion, an orientation, and said three-dimensional shape data of said device. 6. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 5, wherein said device comprises an implantable device for a patient. 7. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 1, wherein said two-dimensional shape data correspond to a two-dimensional radiographic image of a selected position and orientation of said devise. 8. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 1, wherein said two-dimensional simulated radiographic images comprise post-operative two-dimensional simulated radiographic images. 9. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 1, wherein said fusion mechanism generates said two-dimensional simulated radiographic images during surgery without correcting for distortion of said distorted two-dimensional radiographic images. 10. The radiographic imaging system according to claim 1, wherein said medical imaging device comprises at least one of a two-dimensional X-ray camera, a fluoroscope, and an X-ray flat panel detector. 11. The radiographic imaging system as in claim 1, wherein said fusion mechanism comprises a data processor. 12. A radiographic imaging system for fusing two-dimensional shape data, corresponding to pre-operative three-dimensional shape data of a device, with two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion, comprising: an intra-operative radiographic imaging device; a registration device for registering said two-dimensional shape data to a three-dimensional physical space, and said intra-operative imaging device located in said three-dimensional physical space; and a fusion mechanism for fusing said two-dimensional shape data and said two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion, to generate two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images without correcting for distortion. 13. A radiographic imaging system for providing intra-operative visual evaluations of potential surgical outcomes, comprising: a first medical imaging device for collecting pre-operative three-dimensional shape data of a device; a second medical imaging device for collecting two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images during surgery that are subject to distortion; a registration mechanism for registering two-dimensional shape data, corresponding to said pre-operative three-dimensional shape data and a pre-operative surgical plan, to a three-dimensional physical space, and said second medical imaging device located in said three-dimensional physical space; and a fusion mechanism for fusing said two-dimensional shape data and said two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion, without correcting for distortion, to generate two-dimensional simulated post-operative radiographic images during surgery. 14. A method of generating two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images, comprising; collecting two-dimensional shape data, corresponding to three-dimensional shape data of a device; collecting two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion; registering said two-dimensional shape data to a three-dimensional physical space, and a medical imaging device located in said three-dimensional physical space; and fusing said two-dimensional shape data and said two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion, to generate two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images without correcting for distortion. 15. The method of generating two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images according to claim 14, wherein said two-dimensional shape data corresponds to a surgical plan including a three-dimensional position, orientation, and shape of said device. 16. The method of generating two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images according to claim 14, wherein said device is an implantable device for a patient. 17. A signal-bearing medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executed by a digital processing apparatus performing a method for computer-implemented generation of two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images, comprising: collecting pre-operative three-dimensional shape data of a device; collecting two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion; registering two-dimensional shape data, corresponding to said pre-operative three-dimensional shape data of a device, to a three-dimensional physical space, and a medical imaging device located in said three-dimensional physical space; and fusing said two-dimensional shape data and said two-dimensional intra-operative radiographic images that are subject to distortion, to generate two-dimensional post-operative simulated radiographic images without correcting for distortion. 