A sorting apparatus for sorting and receiving optical discs as a function of different quality control codes associated with respective optical discs including a base and a motor mounted to the base and having an output shaft. A turntable has a plurality of vertically oriented fixed spindles attached thereto, and the turntable is connected to, and rotates with, the output shaft of the motor. Each of the spindles has a diameter less than a diameter of a centerhole in the optical discs. A control is responsive to the quality control codes and operates the motor to rotate the turntable and move a spindle to a loading position for receiving an optical disc. The control selects the spindle to receive the optical disc so that only discs having a common quality control code are received by the spindle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sorting apparatus for sorting and receiving optical discs as a function of at least two different quality control codes associated with respective optical discs comprising: a base; a motor mounted to the base and having an output shaft; a turntable connected to the output shaft of the motor having a plurality of vertically oriented fixed spindles thereon, each of the spindles having a diameter less than a diameter of a centerhole in the optical discs and at least two of the spindles being assigned to receive optical discs having the two different quality control codes; and a control electrically connected to the motor and responsive to the quality control codes for operating the motor to rotate the turntable and move, to a loading position, a spindle assigned one of the two quality control codes identical to a respective one of the quality control codes associated with an optical disc being transferred to the sorting apparatus. 2. The sorting apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first sensor for sensing a known position of the spindles. 3. The sorting apparatus of claim 1 wherein there are two quality control codes and at least two spindles are mounted on the turntable, each of the spindles being associated with one of the quality control codes. 4. The sorting apparatus of claim 1 wherein there are three quality control codes and at least three spindles are mounted on the turntable, each of the spindles being associated with one of the quality control codes. 5. The sorting apparatus of claim 1 wherein there are three quality control codes and eight spindles are mounted on the turntable, each of the spindles being associated with one of the quality control codes. 6. The sorting apparatus of claim 5 wherein the eight spindles are substantially equally spaced about a periphery of the turntable. 7. The sorting apparatus of claim 6 wherein four of the spindles are removably mounted on the turntable and four of the spindles are fixed on the turntable. 8. The sorting apparatus of claim 7 wherein the turntable has a plurality of openings for receiving the removably mounted spindles and the openings intersect the periphery of the turntable. 9. The sorting apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a sensor for detecting a presence of a removably mounted spindle in one of the openings. 10. The sorting apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a sensor for detecting a presence of an optical disc on a spindle. 11. The sorting apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a sensor for detecting a known position of the turntable with respect to the base. 12. The sorting apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a sensor for detecting an excessive number of optical discs on a spindle. 13. A method of sorting optical discs onto spindles of a sorting apparatus as a function of at least two different quality control codes associated with each of the respective optical discs comprising: identifying a first quality control code associated with an optical disc being transferred to the sorting apparatus, the first quality control code being one of the two quality control codes; providing at least two spindles on a turntable rotatable by a motor wherein each of the two spindles is exclusively associated with one of the two quality control codes; moving one of the two spindles associated with the first quality control code to a loading position; receiving on the one of the two spindles an optical disc being transferred to the sorting apparatus and associated with the first quality control code; and iterating the above steps of identifying, providing and receiving for other discs whereby only discs having a common quality control code are received on a spindle, thereby sorting and stacking the optical discs onto the spindles as a function of the different quality control codes. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising: detecting an absence of a spindle at the loading position, and inhibiting the step of receiving the optical disc. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising initiating the step of receiving the optical disc in response to detecting a presence of a spindle at the loading position. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising: detecting a presence of a disc prior to receiving a first optical disc on the spindle; and inhibiting the step of receiving the optical disc. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising initiating the step of receiving the optical disc in response to detecting an absence of a disc on a spindle prior to receiving a first optical disc on the spindle. 18. The method of claim 13 further comprising: prior to identifying a quality control code, moving the spindle with respect to the sorting apparatus; and stopping motion of the spindle at a known location. 19. The method of claim 13 wherein the spindle represents a good disc spindle and the method further comprises counting a number of discs received by the good disc spindle. 20. The method of claim 13 further comprises: providing a first good disc spindle at the loading position; receiving optical discs on the good disc spindle; counting the optical discs being received on the good disc spindle; providing a second good disc spindle at the loading position in response to counting a desired number of optical discs received on the first good disc spindle. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising: detecting, with a sensor, a number of optical discs on the good disc spindle exceeding the desired number; and providing another good disc spindle at the loading position in response to the sensor detecting the number of optical discs on the good disc spindle exceeding the desired number. 22. The method of claim 13 further comprising: providing a switch for moving another spindle to the loading position for receiving optical discs having a common quality control code as a current spindle at the loading position; and moving the other spindle to the loading position in response to an actuation of the switch. 23. The method of claim 13 further comprising: providing a switch for inhibiting operation of the sorting apparatus; inhibiting operation of the sorting apparatus in response to an activation of the switch; and resuming operation of the sorting apparatus in response to a deactivation of the switch. 24. A sorting apparatus for sorting and receiving optical discs as a function of at least two different quality control codes associated with respective optical discs comprising: a base; a motor mounted to the base and having an output shaft; a plurality of vertically oriented fixed spindles being mounted to move with rotation of the output shaft of the motor, each of the spindles having a diameter less than a diameter of a centerhole in the optical discs and at least two of the spindles being assigned to receive optical discs having the two different quality control codes; and a control electrically connected to the motor and responsive to the quality control codes for operating the motor to move a spindle to a loading position for receiving an optical disc, the control selecting a spindle having a quality control code corresponding to a quality control code associated with an optical disc being received, so that each of the spindles assigned the two different quality control codes receive only optical discs associated with one of the two different quality control codes. 