A non-destructive inspection, testing and evaluation system and process is provided for the review of aircraft components. The system provides for a structure configured to contain an inspection and testing apparatus and the aircraft components under inspection. The structure is lined with shielding to attenuate the emission of radiation to the outside of the structure and has corbels therein to support the components that constitute the inspection and testing apparatus. The inspection and testing apparatus is coupled to the structure, resulting in the formation of a gantry for supporting a carriage and a mast is mounted on the carriage. The inspection and testing equipment is mounted on the mast which forms, in part, at least one radiographic inspection robot capable of precise positioning over large ranges of motion. The carriage is coupled to the mast for supporting and allowing translation of the equipment mounted on the mast. The mast is configured to provide yaw movement to the equipment.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for the non-destructive inspection and testing of aircraft components, the steps including: creating a database comprising at least one profile of a prototypical aircraft component; maintaining an enclosure at constant environmental conditions; placing at least one aircraft component into the enclosure; allowing sufficient time to permit the aircraft component to reach the constant environmental conditions; placing reference markers on specific areas of the aircraft component; reading the location of the reference markers; comparing said reading with said at least one profile; reporting the resultant of said comparison. 2. The method of claim 1 further including configuring the aircraft component as an entire airplane; placing the reference markers including locating the markers on the airplane's wing tips, horizontal stabilizer, and outer leading edge. 3. The method of claim 2 further including forming the markers as vision edges defined by two straight metal edges, 90 degrees to each other. 4. The method of claim 2 further including jacking the load off tires and actuators of the airplane to offset tire pressure and hydraulic pressure variation. 5. The method of claim 2 further including scanning portions of the airplane using a laser and developing laser data. 6. The method of claim 5 further including comparing developed data with a standard. 7. The method of claim 2 further including scanning portions of the airplane using neutron radiation and developing neutron radiation data. 8. The method of claim 7 further including comparing developed data with a standard. 9. The method of claim 2 further including scanning portions of the airplane using x-ray and developing x-ray data. 10. The method of claim 9 further including comparing developed data with a standard. 11. The method of claim 2 further including scanning portions of the airplane using reverse geometry and developing reverse geometry data. 12. The method of claim 11 further including comparing developed data with standard. 13. The method of claim 2 further scanning the airplane for anomalies against a standard and storing data derived during scanning as to location and airplane type. 14. The method of claim 13 further including comparing similar airplane types and their data to spot trends in the data. 15. The method of claim 13 further including placing the scanner on a support and moving the scanner in three linear directions and three rotational directions through the support. 16. The method of claim 15 further including scanning for anomalies in the integrity of the airplane without destroying the integrity. 