In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a test bed for optimizing an image segregation is provided. According to a feature of the present invention, the test bed comprises a memory storing an image file containing an image, a set of operations, a set of constraint software modules and a set of parameters relevant to the image, a transform module for performing a preselected one of the set of operations, defined by a preselected one of the set of constraint software modules, on the image, as a function of preselected ones of the set of parameters, to provide an output image, a test module utilizing the transform module output image, an analysis module for analyzing test module performance, and a feedback loop for varying selected ones of the operations, constraint software modules and parameters, for input to the transform module, to provide a new output image for input to the test module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A test bed for optimizing an image segregation, comprising: a memory storing an image file containing an image, a set of operations, a set of constraint software modules and a set of parameters relevant to the image, the set of operations, the set of constraint software modules and the set of parameters being arranged to be performed so as to segregate an image into a corresponding intrinsic image, the intrinsic image comprising a representation of one of material or illumination, expressed as a separate, multi-band representation for the one of material or illumination, independent of the other of the material or illumination, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum; a transform module for performing a preselected one of the set of operations, defined by a preselected one of the set of constraint software modules, on the image, as a function of preselected ones of the set of parameters, to provide the intrinsic image as an output intrinsic image; a test module utilizing the transform module output intrinsic image; an analysis module for analyzing test module performance; and a feedback loop for varying selected ones of the operations, constraint software modules and parameters, for input to the transform module, to provide a new output intrinsic image for input to the test module. 2. The test bed of claim 1 wherein each one of the set of constraint software modules defines spatio-spectral information utilized by the respective one of the constraint software modules and an expression of a constraining relationship imposed upon the respective spatio-spectral information. 3. The test bed of claim 1 wherein the set of parameters relevant to the image includes domain knowledge. 4. The test bed of claim 1 wherein the set of parameters relevant to the image includes variable parameters relevant to the set of constraint software modules. 5. The test bed of claim 1 wherein the test module performs an object recognition function. 6. The test bed of claim 1 wherein the intrinsic image comprises one of a material image and an illumination image. 7. A method for optimizing an image segregation, comprising the steps of: providing an image; storing a set of operations, a set of constraint software modules and a set of parameters relevant to the image, the set of operations, the set of constraint software modules and the set of parameters being arranged to be performed so as to segregate an image into a corresponding intrinsic image, the intrinsic image comprising a representation of one of material or illumination, expressed as a separate, multi-band representation for the one of material or illumination, independent of the other of the material or illumination, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum; performing a preselected one of the set of operations, defined by a preselected one of the set of constraint software modules, on the image, as a function of preselected ones of the set of parameters, to provide the intrinsic image as an output intrinsic image; utilizing the output intrinsic image in an application; analyzing application performance; and varying selected ones of the operations, constraint software modules and parameters, for input to the performing step to provide a new output intrinsic image for input to the utilizing step. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein each one of the set of constraint software modules defines spatio-spectral information utilized by the respective one of the constraint software modules and an expression of a constraining relationship imposed upon the respective spatio-spectral information. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the set of parameters relevant to the image includes domain knowledge. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the set of parameters relevant to the image includes variable parameters relevant to the set of constraint software modules. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of utilizing the output image in an application is carried out by performing an object recognition function. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the intrinsic image comprises one of a material image and an illumination image. 13. A method for optimizing an image segregation, comprising the steps of: providing an image; storing a set of operations, a set of constraint software modules and a set of parameters relevant to the image, the set of operations, the set of constraint software modules and the set of parameters being arranged to be performed so as to segregate an image into a corresponding intrinsic image, the intrinsic image comprising a representation of one of material or illumination, expressed as a separate, multi-band representation for the one of material or illumination, independent of the other of the material or illumination, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum; performing a preselected one of the set of operations, defined by a preselected one of the set of constraint software modules, on the image, as a function of preselected ones of the set of parameters, to provide the intrinsic image as an output intrinsic image; utilizing the output intrinsic image in an application; and repeating the performing step to perform operations on a same image under differing selections of operations, constraint software modules and variable parameters to ascertain optimal performance in the utilizing step, as a function of the selections. 14. A method for utilizing an image segregation, comprising the steps of: providing an image; storing a set of operations, a set of constraint software modules and a set of parameters relevant to the image, the set of operations, the set of constraint software modules and the set of parameters being arranged to be performed so as to segregate an image into a corresponding intrinsic image, the intrinsic image comprising a representation of one of material or illumination, expressed as a separate, multi-band representation for the one of material or illumination, independent of the other of the material or illumination, wherein each band corresponds to a segment of the electro-magnetic spectrum; performing a preselected one of the set of operations, defined by a preselected one of the set of constraint software modules, on the image, as a function of preselected ones of the set of parameters, to provide the intrinsic image as an output intrinsic image; and utilizing the output intrinsic image in an application. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the application comprises an object recognition application. 