Prophylactic devices are made in an inert atmosphere by cooling mandrels on which the devices are to be deposited, dipping the mandrels into a polymeric material in a solvent/carrier and a mold release agent, rotating the mandrels during and after the dipping, and evaporating the solvent after dipping. The apparatus includes an air lock between a section in which these functions are performed and a section located in an air atmosphere for removing the devices from the mandrels, followed by cleaning the mandrels for use in a subsequent production run for making devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mandrel assembly comprising: a mandrel consisting of non-electrically conductive material; an electrically conductive coating on said mandrel capable of being electrically charged to a given polarity for attracting airborne particles charged to the opposite polarity of said mandrel; and means for supplying in the vicinity of said mandrel airborne particles charged to said opposite polarity. 2. A mandrel assembly as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: said mandrel having a longitudinal axis; and a gear coupled to said mandrel so as to rotate it about its longitudinal axis selectively in a clockwise and/or counterclockwise direction, when the gear is appropriately rotated. 3. A mandrel assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said mandrel is composed of glass. 4. A mandrel assembly as set forth in claim 2, wherein the gear coupled to said mandrel is adapted for rotating the mandrel alternatively in clockwise and counterclockwise directions, respectively. 5. A mandrel assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said airborne particles include silica powder. 6. A mandrel assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said airborne particles each include a particle size in the range of from 25 to 40 microns. 7. A mandrel assembly, comprising: a mandrel holder; a mandrel consisting of non-electrically conductive material, said mandrel being adapted for mounting engagement on said mandrel holder; an electrically conductive coating extending over a surface portion of said mandrel; and a reference potential source electrically connected to said conductive coating for creating an electrostatic field around said conductive coating on the mandrel to attract airborne particles with oppositely charged polarity thereto. 8. The mandrel assembly of claim 7, wherein said mandrel is composed of glass. 9. The mandrel assembly of claim 7, wherein the reference potential source is ground. 10. The mandrel assembly of claim 7, wherein the mandrel holder further comprises: a groove extending radially around the mandrel holder and being adapted for seating an electrically conductive O-ring; said mandrel being further adapted for snug fitting engagement around said O-ring; and said O-ring being adapted for providing an electrical connection between said conductive coating and said reference potential source. 11. The mandrel assembly of claim 10, further comprising an electrically conductive brush providing an electrical connection between the O-ring and the reference potential source. 12. The mandrel assembly of claim 7, further comprising a gear coupled to said mandrel holder, said gear being adapted for rotating the mandrel around its longitudinal axis selectively in a clockwise or counterclockwise direction, when the gear is appropriately rotated. 13. The mandrel assembly of claim 12, wherein the gear coupled to said mandrel holder is adapted for rotating the mandrel alternatively in clockwise and counterclockwise directions, respectively. 14. A mandrel assembly, comprising: a mandrel holder; a mandrel consisting of non-electrically conductive material, said mandrel being adapted for mounting engagement on said mandrel holder; an electrically conductive coating extending over a surface portion of said mandrel; a reference potential source electrically connected to said conductive coating for creating an electrostatic field around said conductive coating on the mandrel to attract airborne particles of oppositely charged polarity thereto; and a gear coupled to said mandrel holder, said gear being adapted for rotating the mandrel around its longitudinal axis selectively in a clockwise or counterclockwise direction, when the gear is appropriately rotated. 