A wafer handling apparatus having input and output robotic systems directed by a programmed controller. Each system has components including a robot, a twist and rotate, and a carrier and automated carrier rail. The input system is for removing wafers from their wafer pod, placing them in the carrier and transporting them via the rail to a wafer processing area. The output system performs the reverse operation, taking wafers from a carrier following processing and placing them in a pod. Each robot includes a plurality of interconnected, articulated cantilevered arms. The last one of the arms has a wand on one end and a laser emitter detector on the other end, and operates in cooperation with the controller to provide location detection of system components. The controller also includes circuitry for sensing contact of the wand with an object by measuring the increased robot motor torque occurring upon contact. The controller is pre-programmed with approximate physical dimensions of the system components and their relative positions. The controller is additionally programmed to automatically perform a precision calibration/teaching routine to gather more precise location data. The process of precision teaching/calibration begins by placing a pod calibration fixture on a pedestal. The controller then directs the input robot to sense the fixture position, which gives the controller precise data relating to the position of a pod on the pedestal. The robot then senses the position of the twist and rotate components. The process begins by sensing the height of two arms of the twist and rotate, and the controller adjusts the arm heights until they are level. The controller then directs the robot to sense the R and .theta. dimensions of the twist and rotate, and these precise dimensions are saved in the controller.
Claims It is claimed that: 1. An apparatus for wafer handling comprising: (a) a carrier apparatus for conveying wafers in a wafer processing system; (b) wafer transfer apparatus for transferring wafers to and from said carrier apparatus and to and from a wafer pod apparatus, said wafer transfer apparatus including (i) first position sensing apparatus for sensing a position of a robotic component of said wafer transfer apparatus; (ii) second position sensing apparatus for detecting a location of an object; (c) a controller apparatus for directing operation of said apparatus for wafer handling, said controller apparatus including (i) first data storage apparatus containing approximate dimensions of said wafer handling apparatus for use in directing said carrier apparatus and said wafer transfer apparatus; (ii) teaching apparatus responsive to a signal from said first position sensing apparatus and said second position sensing apparatus for collecting precision location data for precision positioning of said wafer transfer apparatus; and (iii) control apparatus programmed for automatically directing said teaching apparatus and for using said first data storage apparatus and said precision data to direct said wafer transfer apparatus and said carrier apparatus to transfer wafers. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said wafer pod apparatus includes an input pod, and said wafer transfer apparatus includes an input wafer transfer apparatus for transferring wafers from said input pod to said carrier apparatus. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said wafer pod apparatus includes an output pod, and said wafer transfer apparatus further includes an output wafer transfer apparatus for transferring wafers from said carrier apparatus to said output pod. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said carrier apparatus includes: (a) an input carrier apparatus for receiving wafers from said input wafer transfer apparatus; and (b) an output carrier apparatus for delivering wafers to said output wafer transfer apparatus. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said wafer transfer apparatus includes: (a) a twist and rotate apparatus for transferring wafers to and from said carrier apparatus; and (b) a robot for transferring wafers between said wafer pod apparatus and said twist and rotate apparatus. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 4 wherein (a) said input wafer transfer apparatus includes (i) an input twist and rotate for transfer of wafers to said input carrier apparatus; and (ii) an input robot for transferring wafers from said input pod to said input twist and rotate; and (b) said output wafer transfer apparatus includes (i) an output twist and rotate for transfer of wafers from said output carrier apparatus; and (ii) an output robot for transfer of wafers from said output twist and rotate to said output pod. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein (a) said input robot includes an articulated cantilevered arm; and (b) said output robot includes an articulated cantilevered arm. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said robot includes an articulated cantilevered arm. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein said second sensing apparatus is a laser emitter-detector. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein said robot includes a servo motor, and said second sensing apparatus includes torque sensing apparatus for sensing an increase in torque applied to move said arm when said arm touches said object. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein said second sensing apparatus further includes a laser emitter-detector included with said arm. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said second sensing apparatus includes (a) an input robot laser emitter-detector included with said input arm; and (b) an output robot laser emitter-detector included with said output arm. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein (a) said input robot includes a servo motor; (b) said output robot includes a servo motor; and (c) said second sensing apparatus includes a torque sensing apparatus for sensing an increase in torque applied to move said input robot arm, and for sensing an increase in torque applied to move said output robot arm for sensing when said input robot arm contacts an object and when said output robot arm makes contact with an object. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 13 wherein said controller apparatus is programmed to automatically direct operations of said apparatus for wafer handling, said operations including (a) directing said teaching apparatus to acquire said precision data, said directing including (i) acquiring position data of said input pod and said output pod; (ii) leveling a plurality of wafer handler arms on said input twist and rotate and said output twist and rotate; and (iii) acquiring position data of said input twist and rotate and said output twist and rotate. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said operations further include (a) sensing wafers on said input pod and recording position data of said wafers in said input pod; (b) extracting a said wafer from said input pod using said input robot; (c) transferring said wafer from said input robot to said input twist and rotate; (d) transferring said wafer from said input twist and rotate to said input carrier; and (e) repeating steps b, c, and d until all wafers in said input pod are transferred to said input wafer carrier. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said operations further include (a) extracting a wafer from said output carrier using said output twist and rotate; (b) transferring said wafer from said output twist and rotate to said output robot; and (c) placing said wafer from said output robot into said output pod in a location corresponding to said wafer position in said input pod from which said wafer was removed. 