An apparatus for use in testing a plurality of compositions in parallel. The apparatus includes an upper plate having a plurality of openings extending therethrough to form upper fluid chambers and a lower plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough to form cavities. A central plate having a plurality of openings extending therethrough to form central fluid chambers is positioned between the upper and lower plates with the central chambers in alignment with the upper chambers and the cavities. A porous sheet is interposed between the upper and central plates such that an upper surface of the sheet is in contact with fluid within the upper chamber and a lower surface of the sheet is in contact with fluid within the central chamber. The apparatus further includes a flexible membrane positioned between the lower and central plates such that changes in pressure within the cavities or fluid chambers cause deflection of the membrane to force fluid to pass through the porous sheet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use in performing a plurality of tests in parallel, the apparatus comprising: an upper plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough to form upper fluid chambers; a lower plate having a plurality of openings extending at least partially therethrough to form cavities; a central plate having a plurality of openings extending therethrough to form central fluid chambers, the central plate being positioned between the upper and lower plates with the central fluid chambers in alignment with the upper fluid chambers and the cavities; a first sheet having porous test regions interposed between the upper and central plates such that an upper surface of the first sheet is at least partially exposed to the first upper fluid chambers and a lower surface of the sheet is at least partially exposed to the central fluid chambers; and a flexible membrane positioned between the lower and central plates such that changes in pressure within the cavities or upper and central fluid chambers cause deflection of the membrane and forces fluid to pass through the porous test regions. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the porous test regions are separated by a seal integral with the sheet and aligned with the upper and central fluid chambers such that each of the upper and central fluid chambers is in fluid communication with one of the test regions. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the seal is formed from an ink material. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the ink is plastisol ink. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the ink material is silk screen printed on the sheet. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the upper and central fluid chambers and cavities are arranged in a microtiter plate format. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the lower plate includes an inlet for receiving at least one of pressure and vacuum and a plurality of passages in communication with the inlet and cavities. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a second sheet having dyed porous test regions interposed between the central and upper plates. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a sealing sheet interposed between the first and second sheets and having a plurality of openings aligned with the upper and central fluid chambers. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a spacer block interposed between the first and second sheets and having a plurality of openings extending therethrough and aligned with the upper and central fluid chambers. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the openings in the central plate are rectangular and periphery edges of the openings are raised relative to an upper surface of the central plate. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the openings in the central plate are round and formed with raised periphery edges. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the flexible membrane is formed from silicone. 