A multi-purpose processing apparatus able to perform both an injection molding operation and a cutting/forming operation. The multi-purpose apparatus places a forming operation into unused space within the injection molding machine, thereby utilizing the already present injection molding clamping pressure to pressure form parts. The apparatus results in a process which combines the three steps of forming, cutting, and injection molding into one continuous operation performed within the injection molding machine, as well as eliminating the need for numerous pre-injection molding steps.
Claims I claim: 1. A multi-purpose processing apparatus, comprising: a forming portion, capable of performing a forming operation, mounted on an injection molding machine; an injection molding portion, capable of performing an injection molding operation, mounted on the same injection molding machine; and a web feed system for directly moving a web of material from the forming portion to the injection molding portion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a cutting portion, capable of performing a cutting operation, positioned as part of the injection molding portion. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the forming operation is performed on one part of the web of material substantially simultaneously with the cutting and injection molding operations being performed on another part of the web of material. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the forming portion is positioned upstream from the cutting and injection molding portions. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising quick change mounting plates. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the forming portion, cutting portion, and injection molding portion are mounted to the quick change mounting plates. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the quick change mounting plates are easily removable from the injection molding machine. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the web feed system comprises at least one tensioning mechanism. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the web feed system further comprises a monitoring device. 10. A multi-purpose processing apparatus, comprising: a forming portion, capable of performing a forming operation, mounted on an injection molding machine; an injection molding portion, capable of performing an injection molding operation, mounted on the same injection molding machine; a web feed system for moving a web of material to be processed from the forming portion to the injection molding portion; wherein the web feed system comprises a monitoring device; and wherein the monitoring device comprises nip rollers and a photo eye. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the web feed system is mounted to quick change mounting plates. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the web feed system further comprises at least one roll mount. 13. A multi-purpose processing apparatus, comprising: a forming portion, capable of performing a forming operation, mounted on an injection molding machine; a cutting portion, capable of performing a cutting operation, capable of performing a cutting operation, mounted on the same injection molding machine; an injection molding portion, capable of performing an injection molding operation, mounted on the same injection molding machine; at least two quick change mounting plates, to which the forming portion, cutting portion, and injection molding portion are removably mounted; and a web feed system for moving a continuous web of material to be processed from the forming portion to the cutting portion, and injection molding portion. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the forming portion, cutting portion, and injection molding portion operate substantially simultaneously. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the forming portion is positioned upstream from the injection molding portion. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the web feed system comprises a monitoring device. 17. A multi-purpose processing apparatus, comprising: a forming portion, capable of performing a forming operation, mounted on an injection molding machine; a cutting portion, capable of performing a cutting operation, capable of performing a cutting operation, mounted on the same injection molding machine; an injection molding portion, capable of performing an injection molding operation, mounted in on the same injection molding machine; at least two quick change mounting plates, to which the forming portion, cutting portion, and injection molding portion are removably mounted; a web feed system for moving a continuous web of material to be processed from the forming portion to the cutting portion, and injection molding portion; and wherein the web feed system further comprises at least one tensioning mechanism. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the web feed system further comprises at least one roll mount. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the forming operation is performed on one part of the web of material substantially simultaneously with the injection molding operation being performed on another part of the web of material. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the forming portion is positioned upstream from the injection molding portion. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising quick change mounting plates. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the forming portion and injection molding portion are mounted to the quick change mounting plates. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the web feed system is mounted to the quick change mounting plates. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising press platen surfaces. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the forming portion and the injection molding portion are mounted to the press platen surfaces. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the web feed system is mounted to the press platen surfaces. 27. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising press platen surfaces. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the forming portion, the cutting portion and the injection molding portion are mounted to the press platen surfaces. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the web feed system is mounted to the press platen surfaces. 30. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the cutting portion is positioned as part of the injection molding portion. 