The invention proposes a robot apparatus capable of autonomously performing actions in natural ways. The robot apparatus includes a control unit having emotion/-instinct models linked to the actions and deciding a next action by changing the emotion/instinct models based on the input information. A robot apparatus can be realized which autonomously behaves in accordance with the emotional and instinctive states created in itself, and hence which autonomously behaves in a natural way.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus comprising: a portion; control means for controlling said portion; and a posture transition model including states of a posture between which transition is allowed; wherein said control means controls said portion based upon said posture transition model in order to have said robot generate behavior or perform actions. 2. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said posture transition model comprises a first node indicative of a first posture of said robot apparatus, a second node indicative of a second posture of said robot apparatus, and an arc indicative of capable transitioning directly from said first node to said second node. 3. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said posture transition model transits postures by employing a directional graph in which a plurality of nodes representing postures capable of being taken by said robot apparatus are registered beforehand, and every two among the postures capable of being directly transited from one to the other are coupled by a directional arc. 4. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said posture transition model plans a posture transition schedule by searching a route from a node corresponding to the current posture to a next node while following a direction indicated by each respective directional arc. 5. A robot apparatus comprising: a sensor operable to detect an input signal supplied to said robot apparatus from at least one of an external stimulus and an internal stimulus; means for determining at least one semantic content in accordance with the detected input signal; an instinct model for generating at least one parameter defining a predetermined instinct; changing means for changing at least one instinct parameter based upon the semantic content; and a behavior model for deciding a next action or behavior based upon at least one of a current state and a last state; wherein said behavior model decides an action or behavior in accordance with the instinct parameter, and said changing means changes said at least one instinct parameter based upon said decided action or behavior. 6. A robot apparatus comprising: a sensor operable to detect an input signal supplied to said robot apparatus from at least one of an external stimulus and an internal stimulus; means for determining at least one semantic content in accordance with the detected input signal; an emotion model for generating at least one parameter defining a predetermined emotion; changing means for changing at least one emotion parameter based upon the semantic content; and a behavior model for deciding a next action or behavior based upon at least one of a current state and a last state; wherein said behavior model decides an action or behavior in accordance with the emotion parameter, and said changing means changes said at least one emotion parameter based upon said decided action or behavior. 7. A robot apparatus comprising: a portion; control means for controlling said portion; a posture transition model including states of a posture between which transition is allowed; a sensor operable to detect an input signal supplied to said robot apparatus from at least one of an external stimulus and an internal stimulus; means for determining at least one semantic content in accordance with the detected input signal; an instinct model for generating at least one parameter defining a predetermined instinct; instinct changing means for changing at least one instinct parameter based upon the semantic content; a behavior model for deciding a next action or behavior based upon at least one of a current state and a last state; an emotion model for generating at least one parameter defining a predetermined emotion; and emotion changing means for changing at least one emotion parameter based upon the semantic content; wherein said control means controls said portion based upon said posture transition model in order to have said robot generate behavior or perform actions; and wherein said behavior model decides an action or behavior in accordance with at least one of the instinct parameter and the emotion parameter, and said instinct changing means changes said at least one instinct parameter and said emotion changing means changes said at least one emotion parameter based upon said decided action or behavior. 