A method and apparatus in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library. Signals are transmitted from a set of transmitters in the automated data storage library, wherein a location of the set of transmitters is known. The signals transmitted from the set of transmitters are received at a receiver located on the robot to form a set of received signals. The location of the robot is determined using the set of received signals and the location of the set of transmitters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library, the method comprising: transmitting signals from a set of transmitters into the automated data storage library receiving the signals transmitted from the set of transmitters at a receiver located on the robot to form a set of received signals; and determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and a location of the set of transmitters. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting step comprises: transmitting the signals from the set of transmitters at known intervals. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the determining step comprises: determining intervals at which the signals are received to form a set of received intervals; identifying a distance between each transmitter within the set of transmitters and the receiver to form a set of distances; and determining the location of the robot using the set of distance s and the locations of the set of transmitters. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the receiver is part of a transponder including a transmitter and wherein the step of determining comprises: responsive to the signals, returning responses from the transponder to the transmitters; determining a distance from each of the set of transmitters to the transponder based on the responses to form a set of distances; and determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step is performed by a library control unit located within the automated data storage library. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling movement of the robot using the location of the robot within the automated data storage library. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiver is located on a hand on the robot, wherein the location of the robot in the automated data storage library is the location of the hand in the automated data storage library. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library is a library storage module. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library holds tape cartridges. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated data storage library holds at least one of magnetic media and digital versatile discs. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of transmitters comprises at least two transmitters. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of transmitters are located within the library. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein a location of the set transmitters are known. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the signals are at least one of radio frequency signals and ultrasonic signals. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiver is a transponder. 16. A method in an automated data storage library for identifying a location of a robot in the automated data storage library, the method comprising: transmitting signals from a transmitter located on the robot, receiving the signals at a set of receivers to form a set of received signals, wherein a location of the set of receivers is known; and determining the location of the robot using the set of received signals and the location of the set of receivers. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the signals are at least one of radio frequency signals and ultrasonic signals. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the transmitter is located on a hand on the robot. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: controlling movement of the robot within the automated data storage library using the location of the robot. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the automated data storage library holds tape cartridges. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the automated data storage library holds at least one of magnetic media and digital versatile discs. 22. An automated data storage library system comprising: a storage structure for receiving a plurality of data storage units; a set of transmitters, wherein the transmitters transmit signals; a robot having a receiver, wherein the robot manipulates data storage units within the automated data storage library and wherein the receiver receives the signals to form a set of received signals; and a control system, wherein the control system determines a distance between the robot and each of the transmitters using the set of received signals to form a set of distances and determines a location of the robot within the automated data storage library using a location of the set of transmitters and the set of distances. 23. The automated data storage library of claim 22, wherein the set of transmitters transmit the signals at known time intervals. 24. The automated data storage library of claim 23, wherein the control system determines the location of the robot within the automated data storage library using the location of the set of transmitters and the set of distances by determining time intervals at which the signals are received to form a set of received intervals, identifying a distance between each transmitter within the set of transmitters and the receiver to form a set of distances using the set of received time intervals and the known time intervals, and determining the location of the robot using the set of distances and the locations of the set of transmitters. 25. The automated data storage library of claim 22, wherein the control system controls the transmission of the signals. 26. The automated data storage library of claim 22, wherein the control system controls the robot using the location of the robot. 27. The automated data storage library of claim 22, wherein the control system is a computer. 28. The automated data storage library of claim 22, wherein the automated data storage library holds at least one of tape cartridges, magnetic media, and digital versatile discs. 29. An automated data storage library system comprising: a storage structure for receiving a plurality of data storage units; a robot having a transmitter, wherein the robot manipulates data storage units within the automated data storage library and wherein the transmitter transmits signals; a set of receivers, wherein the set of receivers receives the signals to form a set of received signals; and a control system, wherein the control system determines a distance between the robot and each of the transmitters using the set of received signals to form a set of distances and determines a location of the robot within the automated data storage library using a location of the set of transmitters and the set of distances. 