An improved high-capacity apparatus for rapidly pressure treating a large surface area, such as the hull of a cargo ship or a large storage tank, using high-pressure spray. The apparatus conforms to the surface to be treated and provides the treating power of multiple rotating nozzles. The apparatus preferably comprises a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from the framework, a high pressure surface treatment medium supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting the high pressure medium supply conduit with the rotary spray arm; enclosure means for individually and/or collectively enclosing the rotary spray units against the surface being treated; rotary spray unit positioning means for individually positioning each of the respective rotary spray units relative to the surface being treated; primary framework positioning means for orienting the framework along the surface to be treated relative to secondary means positioning means and adapted for providing constant bias of the framework against the surface being treated; and secondary framework positioning means for supporting and moving the primary framework positioning means relative to the surface to be treated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high-pressure surface treating apparatus comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment medium supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure medium supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; enclosure means for enclosing one or more of said rotary spray units against the surface being treated; rotary spray unit positioning means for individually positioning each of said respective rotary spray units relative to the surface being treated; primary framework positioning means for orienting said framework along said surface to be treated relative to secondary positioning means and adapted for providing constant bias of said framework against said surface being treated; and secondary framework positioning means for supporting and moving said primary framework positioning means relative to the surface to be treated. 2. A high-pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said medium is selected from the group consisting of a gas, a gas and solid mixture, a liquid, and a liquid and solid mixture. 3. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said framework is comprised of two or more frame members hingedly connected to each other to form a flexible framework. 4. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said high pressure surface treating apparatus further includes a source of high pressure medium connected to said high pressure surface treatment fluid supply conduit, a recycle return conduit, one end of which is in communication with at least one housing, the other end of which is connected to a vacuum or pump or gravity source adapted to evacuate said at least one housing at a rate greater than the rate at which the high pressure surface treatment medium is introduced into the housing. 5. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising treatment means for purification of said high pressure surface treatment medium and returning said medium to said source of high pressure medium. 6. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein an individual containment housing is provided around each individual rotary spray unit adapted for sealing a work space containing said rotary spray unit against a surface to be treated. 7. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein a common containment housing is provided surrounding all rotary spray units, said common containment housing adapted for sealing a work space containing said rotary spray units against a surface to be treated. 8. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said framework is comprised of a single rigid frame member, and wherein two or more rotary spray units are provided on said frame member. 9. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said framework extends along a plane, and wherein said framework is rotatably connected to said primary framework positioning means for rotation in said plane between first and second positions. 10. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 9, wherein said first and second positions are separated by at least 90.degree.. 11. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 9, wherein said first and second positions are separated by at least 180.degree.. 12. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said rotary spray unit positioning means for individually positioning each of said respective rotary spray units relative to the surface being treated comprises: a mechanical contact element for contacting a surface to be treated; and a flexible, resilient mechanical coupling between said mechanical contact and said rotary union, such that movement of the mechanical contact element causes a corresponding movement of said rotary union and thereby of the rotary spray unit. 13. A high-pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said rotary spray unit positioning means for individually positioning each of said respective rotary spray units relative to the surface being treated comprises: a mechanical contact element for contacting a surface to be treated; and a rigid mechanical coupling between said mechanical contact and said rotary union, wherein said rotary union is resiliently flexibly connected to said frame member, such that movement of the mechanical contact element causes a corresponding movement of said rotary union and thereby of the rotary spray unit. 14. A high-pressure surface treating apparatus comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment medium supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure medium supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; enclosure means for enclosing one or more of said rotary spray units against the surface being treated; rotary spray unit positioning means for individually positioning each of said respective rotary spray units relative to the surface being treated; primary framework positioning means comprising a cylinder framework, two or more work cylinders fixedly or pivotably connected to said cylinder framework, pistons provided in said cylinder moveable against a pressure medium, connecting rods connected at one end to said pistons and pivotably connected at the other end to a generally planar connecting rod framework, pressure medium supplied to said work cylinder; control means responsive to changes in pressure in each of said work cylinders to adjust the pressure in each of said work cylinders to maintain a constant pressure; wherein said framework extends along a plane, and wherein said framework is rotatably connected to said connecting rod framework for rotation in said framework in said plane about at least 90.degree.. 15. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 14, wherein said primary framework positioning means comprises at least four cylinders. 16. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 14, wherein said pressure medium is selected from the group consisting of hydraulic fluid, nitrogen, and air. 17. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 14, wherein said pressures medium is air, and wherein said control means is an air logic system. 18. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 14, comprising secondary framework positioning means for supporting and moving said primary framework positioning means relative to the surface to be treated. 19. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 18, wherein said secondary framework positioning means is selected from the group consisting of a boom, a suspension cable, a vertically, displaceable mounts provided on a wheeled vehicle, or scaffold and a magnetic track vehicle. 20. A high-pressure surface treating apparatus comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment fluid supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure fluid supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; enclosure means for individually and/or collectively enclosing one or more of said rotary spray units against the surface being treated; resilient mechanical rotary spray unit positioning means for individually maintaining the position of each rotary spray unit relative to the surface being treated. 21. A high pressure surface treating apparatus as in claim 20, wherein said apparatus comprises a single rotary spray unit. 22. A high-pressure surface treating apparatus comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment fluid supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure fluid supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; enclosure means for individually and/or collectively enclosing one or more of said rotary spray units against the surface being treated; resilient mechanical rotary spray unit positioning means for individually maintaining the position of each rotary spray unit relative to the surface being treated; and wherein said apparatus comprises at least two rotary spray units, and wherein said at least two rotary spray units are pivotable independently of each other. 23. A vertical surface high-pressure treating apparatus comprising a high-pressure surface treating apparatus mounted on a boom supported on a mobile vehicle, a boom-positioning means having thereon, said high pressure treating apparatuses comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment fluid supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure fluid supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; resilient mechanical rotary spray unit positioning means for individually maintaining the position of each rotary spray unit relative to the surface being treated. 24. A high pressure surface treating apparatus comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment fluid supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure fluid supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; resilient mechanical rotary spray unit positioning means for individually maintaining the position of each rotary spray unit relative to the surface being treated; said rotary spray unit positioning means for individually positioning each of said respective rotary spray units relative to the surface being treated includes a mechanical contact element for contacting a surface to be treated, and a rigid mechanical coupling between said mechanical contact and said rotary union, and wherein said rotary union is resiliently flexibly connected to said frame member, such that movement of the mechanical contact element causes a corresponding movement of said rotary union and thereby of the rotary spray unit. 25. A multi-level high-pressure surface treating apparatus comprising a multi-level scaffold having a high-pressure surface treating apparatus mounted on at least two levels, each of said high pressure treating apparatuses comprising: a framework comprised of one or more frame members; at least one rotary spray unit flexibly associated with each frame member, each rotary spray unit comprising at least one rotary spray arm having at least one nozzle directed away from said framework, a high pressure surface treatment fluid supply conduit, a rotary union having an axis of rotation and connecting said high pressure fluid supply conduit with said rotary spray arm; resilient mechanical rotary spray unit positioning means for individually maintaining the position of each rotary spray unit relative to the surface being treated. 