A quick change fixture mounting arrangement includes a pair of mating ball-and-socket connectors at the headstock end of the fixture and a ball joint coupler at the tailstock end of the fixture. This arrangement allows for some misalignment of the fixture relative to the axis of rotation and permits the fixture to be rotated about a second, external axis of rotation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A quick change fixture subframe mounting arrangement for a robotic work station including a rotatable main framework with a headstock positioner arm having drive means thereon rotatable about an axis of rotation, a tailstock positioner arm opposite the headstock positioner, and a fixture subframe having opposite first and second ends rotatably supported between the headstock positioner arm and the tailstock positioner arm respectively, the mounting arrangement comprising: ball-and-socket means for drivingly connecting the first end of the fixture with the drive means on the headstock positioner arm; a ball joint coupling means for releasably and rotatably mounting the second end of the fixture subframe to the tailstock positioner arm along the axis of rotation so as to permit pivoting of the fixture subframe with respect to the tailstock positioner arm in a horizontal plane and in a vertical plane; the fixture subframe being securely supported for rotation about the axis of rotation and about an external axis that is non-coaxial with the axis of rotation without reliance on gravitational forces. 2. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 1 wherein the ball joint coupling means comprises a coupler shaft having a longitudinal axis, a first end slidably journaled in a hole on the tailstock positioner arm, and a second end having a hole with a counterbore concentrically formed therearound and extending perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the shaft; a ball having a center and a centrally located round hole extending therethrough housed in the counterbore in the coupler shaft such that the round hole is coaxial with the counterbore in the coupler shaft and the center is on the axis of rotation; a removable pin extending through a clearance hole on a mounting flange on the second end of the fixture subframe, the ball, and the second end of the coupler shaft; and means for selectively engaging the pin to prevent removal thereof. 3. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 2 wherein the second end of the coupler shaft has a generally T-shaped flange thereon with a first leg extending longitudinally and a second leg perpendicular to the first leg, the first leg including opposite upper and lower surfaces, the hole in the coupler shaft extending through the first leg from the upper surface to the lower surface. 4. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 3 further comprising an annular disk detachably mounted to the upper surface of the first leg and having an aperture therethrough. 5. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 3 wherein the coupling means further comprises a tubular bushing that receives the pin and includes a main tube portion that extends through the ball and an enlarged head portion incapable of passing through the hole in the ball. 6. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 5 wherein the coupling means further comprises a tubular member pressed onto the tube portion of the bushing to hold the ball against the enlarged head. 7. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 5 wherein the enlarged head portion of the bushing has a height greater than the depth of the counterbore. 8. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 2 wherein the removable pin comprises a threaded bolt. 9. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 8 wherein the means for selectively engaging the threaded bolt is a hand nut. 10. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 5 wherein the ball has truncated upper and lower poles thereon which define upper and lower planar surfaces. 11. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 5 further comprising a safety latch member for connecting the second end of the fixture subframe and the ball joint coupling means together if connection at the removable pin is lost unexpectedly. 12. A robotic work station comprising: a rotatable framework main including a headstock positioner arm having drive means thereon rotatable about an axis of rotation and a tailstock positioner arm opposite the headstock positioner; a fixture subframe having opposite first and second ends rotatably supported between the headstock positioner arm and the tailstock positioner arm respectively, the first end of the fixture subframe being drivingly engaged by the drive means so as to rotate about a first axis of rotation second end releasably attached to a ball joint coupling means pivotally mounted on the tailstock positioner arm along said first axis of rotation for releasably attaching the second end of the fixture subframe to the tailstock positioner arm; both the first end and the second end of the fixture subframe being positively restrained and positioned radially with respect to the first axis of rotation without reliance on gravitational forces. 13. The robotic work station of claim 12 wherein the coupling means is pivotal in at least two planes that extend through the axis of rotation. 14. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 12 wherein the ball-and-socket means includes a pair of spaced apart ball-receiving cylinders on the first end of the fixture subframe, each of the cylinders having a central longitudinal axis that is parallel to the axis of rotation and is located an equidistant therefrom. 15. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 14 wherein one of the ball-receiving cylinders has an inner diameter with a pair of opposing protrusions thereon and one of the hitch balls has a pair of opposing flat polar areas thereon that slidingly mate with the opposing protrusions of the inner diameter so as to radially time the fixture subframe with respect to the axis of rotation. 16. A quick change fixture subframe mounting arrangement for a robotic work station including a rotatable main framework with a headstock positioner arm having drive means thereon rotatable about an axis of rotation, a tailstock positioner arm opposite the headstock positioner, and a fixture subframe having opposite first and second ends rotatably supported between the headstock positioner arm and the tailstock positioner arm respectively, the mounting arrangement comprising: ball-and-socket means for drivingly connecting the first end of the fixture with the drive means on the headstock positioner arm, the ball-and-socket means including a pair of spaced apart hitch balls on the drive means and a corresponding and mating pair of ball-receiving cylinders on the first end of the fixture subframe, each of the cylinders having a central longitudinal axis that is parallel to the axis of rotation and is located an equidistant therefrom; and coupling means for releasably and rotatably mounting the second end of the fixture subframe to the tailstock positioner arm along the axis of rotation. 17. The fixture subframe mounting arrangement of claim 16 wherein one of the ball-receiving cylinders has an inner diameter with a pair of opposing protrusions thereon and one of the hitch balls has a pair of opposing flat polar areas thereon that slidingly mate with the opposing protrusions of the inner diameter so as to radially time the fixture subframe with respect to the axis of rotation. 