The present invention provides a method of compiling a plant functional gene profile, a method of changing the phenotype or biochemistry of a plant, a method of determining a change in phenotype or biochemistry of a plant, and a method of determining the presence of a trait in plant. The methods comprise expressing transiently a nucleic acid sequence of a plant into a host plant to affect phenotypic or biochemical changes in the host plant. A viral vector functional genomic screen has been developed to identify nucleotide sequences in transfected plants by systemically knocking out endogenous gene expression in an antisense mechanism. Once the presence of a trait in a plant is identified by phenotypic or biochemical changes in the host plant, the nucleic acid insert in the cDNA clone or in the vector that results in the changes is then sequenced. The present invention exemplifies that genes encoding GTP binding proteins in one plant can silence endogenous gene expression in a different plant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of compiling a plant antisense functional gene profile comprising: a) preparing a library of DNA or RNA sequences from a donor plant, and constucting recombinant viral nucleic acids obtained from a tobamo virus comprising an unidentified nucleic acid insert obtained from said library in an antsense orientation relative to said DNA or RNA sequence of said donor plant; b) infecting a plant host with one or more said recombinant viral nucleic acids; c) transiently expressing said unidentified nucleic acid in the plant host; d) determining one or more phenotypic or biochemical changes in the plant host, if any; e) identifying an associated trait where a phenotypic or biochemical change occurs; f) identifying said recombinant viral nucleic acid that results in said one or more changes in the plant host; g) identifying a plant host gene, if any, associated with the trait, and h) repeating steps b)-g) until at least one nucleic acid is associated with said trait, whereby an antisense functional gene profile of the plant host or of the donor plant is compiled. 2. A method of compiling a plant functional gene profile, comprising: a) preparing a library of DNA or RNA sequence from a donor plant, and constructing recombinant viral nucleic acids obtained from a tobamo virus comprising an unidentified nucleic acid insert obtained from said library in either a positive sense or antisense orientation relative to said DNA or RNA sequence of said donor plant; b) infecting a plant host with one or more said recombinant viral nucleic acids; c) transiently expressing said unidentified nucleic acid in the plant host; d) determining one or more phenotypic or biochemical changes in the plant host, if any; e) identifying an associated trait where a phenotypic or biochemical change occurs; f) identifying said recombinant viral nucleic acid that results a said one or more changes in the plant host; g) identifying a plant host gene, if any, associated with the trait; and h) repeating steps b)-g ) until at least one nucleic acid is associated with said trait, whereby a functional gene profile of the plant host or of the plant donor is compiled. 3. A method of compiling a plant antisense functional gene profile comprising: a) preparing a vector library of DNA or RNA sequences from a donor plant, and constructing recombinant viral nucleic acids obtained from a tobamo virus comprising an unidentified nucleic acid insert obtained from said library; b) infecting a plant host with one or more said recombinant viral nucleic acids; c) transiently expressing said recombinant nucleic acid in the plant host; d) determining one or more changes in phenotypic or biochemical trait in the plant host if any; e) identifying said recombinant viral nucleic acid that results in said one or more changes in the plant host; f) determining and selecting the sequence of said nucleic acid insert in said recombinant viral nucleic acid that is in an antisense orientation relative to a donor plant gene or a plant host gene; g) identifying a plant host gene, if any, associated with the trait; and h) repeating steps b)-g) until at least one donor plant gene or one plant host gene associated with said trait is identified, whereby an antisense functional gene profile of the plant host or of the donor plant is compiled. 4. A method of compiling a plant functional gene profile, comprising: a) preparing a library of DNA or RNA sequences from a donor plant, and constructing recombinant viral nucleic acids obtained from a tobamo virus comprising an unidentified nucleic acid insert obtained from said library; b) infecting a plant host with one or more said recombinant viral nucleic acids; c) transiently expressing said recombinant nucleic acid in the plant host; d) determining one or more changes in a phenotypic or biochemical trait in the plant host, if any; e) identifying and determining said recombinant viral nucleic acid that results in said one or more changes in the plant host; f) identifying a plant host gene, if any, associated with the trait and g) repeating steps b)-f) until at least one donor plant gene or one plant host gene associated with said trait is identified, whereby a functional gene profile of the plant host or the plant donor is compiled. 5. The method according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein said changes in said plant host is compared with a plant host that is uninfected. 6. The method according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein said changes occur after infecting said plant host with said one or more recombinant viral nucleic acids. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein said plant host is Nicotiana. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said plant host is Nicotiana benthamiana or Nicotiana cleavlandii. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein an antisense RNA is produced in the cytoplasm of said plant host, and said antisense RNA results in a reduced expression of an endogenous gene in said host plant. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein said recombinant viral nucleic acid further comprises a native plant viral subgenomic promoter and a plant viral coat protein coding sequence. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein said recombinant viral nucleic acid further comprises a non-native plant viral subgenomic promoter, said native plant viral subgenomic promoter initiates transcription of said plant viral coat protein sequence and said non-native plant viral subgenomic promoter initiates transcription of said nucleic acid sequence. 12. The method according to any one of claim 1-4, wherein said tobamo virus is a tobacco mosaic virus. 13. A method of compiling a plant antsense functional gene profile comprising: a) preparing a library of DNA or RNA sequences from a donor plant, and constructing recombinant viral nucleic acids obtained from a tobamo virus comprising an unidentified nucleic acid insert obtained from said library in an antisense orientation relative to said DNA or RNA sequence from said donor plant; b) infecting a plant host with one or more sad recombinant viral nucleic acids; c) transiently expressing said unidentified nucleic acid in the plant host; d) identifying one or more phenotypic or biochemical changes in the plant host, if any; e) identifying an associated trait where a phenotypic or biochemical change occurs; f) identifying said recombinant viral nucleic acid that results in said one or more changes in the plant host; g) repeating steps b)-f) until at least one nucleic acid is associated with said trait, whereby an antisense functional gene profile of the plant host or of the donor plant is compiled. 14. A method of compiling a plant functional gene profile, comprising: a) preparing a library of DNA or RNA sequences from a donor plant, and constructing recombinant viral nucleic acids obtained from a tobamo virus comprising an unidentified nucleic acid insert obtained from said library in either a positive sense or antisense orientation relative to said DNA or RNA sequences from said donor plant; b) infecting a plant host with one or more said recombinant viral nucleic acids; c) transiently expressing said unidentified nucleic acid in the plant host; d) determining one or more phenotypic or biochemical changes in the plant host, if any; e) identifying an associated trait where a phenotypic or biochemical change occurs; f) identifying said recombinant viral nucleic acid trait results in said one or more changes in the plant host; g) repeating steps b)-f) until at least one nucleic acid is associated with said trait, whereby a functional gene profile of the plant host or of the plant donor is compiled. 