A system and method that integrates film thickness measurements with a chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) spin-dry tool. By doing so, each wafer can be measured as it comes out of the previous CMP process. Thickness measurement feedback is provided, which controls processing of the wafer and also monitor operational status of a CMP polishing unit prior to completion of the wafer being polished, resulting in significant cost and cycle time reduction through the elimination of tool infrastructure and wafer handling by assuring proper tolerances of the CMP polishing unit are maintained.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) system, the system comprising: a CMP spin-dry tool; at least one optical film measurement probe mounted in an optical line-of-sight of a surface of a workpiece in said CMP spin-dry tool, said optical film measurement probe being capable of performing film thickness measurements of a spinning wafer and operatively communicating said thickness measurements for process control. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said system further comprising a process controller for receiving said thickness measurements for controlling a CMP polishing unit. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said process controller comprises a spectrometer and said measurement probe comprises: a light source; a light collector or detector for receiving reflected light; and a retroreflective element for reflecting light toward said light collector. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said retroreflective element reflects light along an incident path of said light. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein said retroreflective element comprises one of a retroreflective tape and a corner reflector. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein said retroreflective element comprises a corner reflector. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein said spectrometer comprises one of a dispersive-type spectrometer, an interferometric-type spectrometer and an image-type spectrometer. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said spin-dry tool further comprises: a tank housing; a rotating chuck within said tank housing configured to mount said work piece; and a hood member covering said tank wherein said at least one probe is attached to said hood. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein at least two probes are mounted, whereby operational status of requisite operational tolerances of said CMP polishing unit. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said spin-tool forming part of said CMP system comprises a stand-alone unit. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said spin-tool forming part of said CMP system comprises part of an integrated post-brush clean tool. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said spin-tool forming part of said CMP system comprises part of an integrated polisher-brush clean tool. 13. A system for polishing a workpiece, said system comprising: a chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) unit; and a spin-dry tool having at least one measurement probe adapted to measure surface thickness of said workpiece during a spin-dry process, and communicating said thickness measurements to a process controller in said CMP unit. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said process controller comprises a spectrometer. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said measurement probe comprises: a light source; a light collector or detector for receiving reflected light; and a retroreflective element for reflecting light toward said light collector. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said retroreflective element reflects light along an incident path of said light. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein said retroreflective element comprises one of a retroreflective tape and a corner reflector. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein said retroreflective element comprises a corner reflector. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein said spectrometer comprises one of a dispersive-type spectrometer, an interferometric-type spectrometer and an image-type spectrometer. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein said spin-dry tool further comprises: a tank housing; a rotating chuck within said tank housing configured to mount said work piece; and a hood member covering said tank wherein said at least one probe is attached to said hood. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein at least two probes are mounted, whereby operational status of requisite operational tolerances of said CMP polishing unit. 22. The system of claim 13, wherein said spin-tool forming part of said CMP system comprises a stand-alone unit. 23. The system of claim 13, wherein said spin-tool forming part of said CMP system comprises part of an integrated post-brush clean tool. 24. The system of claim 13, wherein said spin-tool forming part of said CMP system comprises part of an integrated polisher-brush clean tool. 25. A method of integrated monitoring of tolerances of a chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) system using a spin-dry tool having at least one film thickness measurement probe mounted in an optical line-of-sight of a surface of a workpiece in said CMP spin-dry tool, said at least one probe operatively coupled to a system processor, the method comprising: measuring a film thickness of said work piece with said probe during spin-dry processing of said work piece; comparing prior film thickness of said work piece; determining whether further polishing of said work piece is required. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said system includes providing at least two probes and said method of comparing said prior film thickness of said work piece includes measurements along rings of constant radius on said workpiece for determining whether CMP polishing unit tolerances are maintained. 