A method and apparatus are disclosed for use in an area digital imaging system for assays to extract targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity. A matrix is defined of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen, and a determination is made of the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target by sensing both pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for use in a digital imaging system for assays to extract targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity, said method comprising the steps of: defining a matrix of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen; and determining the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target by sensing both pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of, using a confidence value indicative of reliability of the most probable location as a weighting factor, shifting the location of the probe template from the nominal target location towards the most probable location for the selected target. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said determining step is performed iteratively for each target. 4. A method for use in a digital imaging system for assays to extract targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity, said method comprising the steps of: defining a matrix of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen; determining the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target by sensing both pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location; using a confidence value indicative of reliability of the most probable location as a weighting factor, shifting the location of the probe template from the nominal target location towards the most probable location for the selected target; and wherein said determining step determines the confidence score, CS(x0,y0), at said plurality of locations, defined by the following formula: ##EQU2## the most probable location being the one which maximizes the formula. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the image used in said defining step is produced by generating a primary image of the specimen showing to best advantage the effect of interest, generating a secondary image which shows minimally the effect of interest but which shows at least one of a second effect and the location of wells. 6. A method for use in a digital imaging system for assays to extract targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity, said method comprising the steps of: defining a matrix of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen; determining the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target by sensing both pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location; and wherein said determining step determines the confidence score, CS(x0,y0), at said plurality of locations, defined by the following formula: ##EQU3## the most probable location being the one which maximizes the formula. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the image used in said deriving step is produced by generating a primary image of the specimen showing to best advantage the effect of interest, generating a secondary image which shows minimally the effect of interest and combining the secondary image with the primary image. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining step is performed iteratively for each target. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the image used in said deriving step is produced by generating a primary image of the specimen showing to best advantage the effect of interest, generating a secondary image which shows mininally the effect of interest and combining the secondary image with the primary image. 10. The method of any one of claim 1, wherein the specimen is provided with predefined anchor points, the matrix being initially aligned to the actual target locations in the specimen by placing specific probe templates over one of: the anchor points; and those target points which contain detectable signals. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein the confidence value for a target is determined by the detectability of the target. 12. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of shifting the location of the probe template from the nominal target location towards the most probable location for the selected target only when the confidence value exceeds a predefined threshold value. 13. In a digital imaging system for assays, an apparatus for extracting targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity, comprising: a grid generator providing a matrix of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen; and a probe template locator, jointly responsive to pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location, to determine the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a shifter, responsive to a confidence signal related to the reliability of the most probable location, to shift the location of the probe template from the nominal target location towards the most probable location for the selected target. 15. In a digital imaging system for assays, an apparatus for extracting targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity, comprising: a grid generator providing a matrix of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen; and a probe template locator, jointly responsive to pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location, to determine the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target; a shifter, responsive to a confidence signal related to the reliability of the most probable location, to shift the location of the probe template from the nominal target location towards the most probable location for the selected target; and wherein said probe template locator comprises a processor determining the integrated density, ID(x0,y0), at each of said plurality of locations, in accordance with the following formula: ##EQU4## the processor selecting as the most probable location the one which maximizes the formula. 16. The method of claim 2, wherein the specimen is provided with predefined anchor points, the matrix being initially aligned to the actual target locations in the specimen by placing specific probe templates over one of: the anchor points; and those target points which contain detectable signals. 17. The method of claim 3, wherein the specimen is provided with predefined anchor points, the matrix being initially aligned to the actual target locations in the specimen by placing specific probe templates over one of: the anchor points; and those target points which contain detectable signals. 18. The method of claim 4, wherein the specimen is provided with predefined anchor points, the matrix being initially aligned to the actual target locations in the specimen by placing specific probe templates over one of: the anchor points; and those target points which contain detectable signals. 19. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of shifting the location of the probe template from the nominal target location towards the most probable location for the selected target only when the confidence value exceeds a predefined threshold value. 20. In a digital imaging system for assays, an apparatus for extracting targets on a specimen containing an array of targets that may not be arranged in perfect regularity, comprising: a grid generator providing a matrix of nominal target locations including a probe template of predefined, two-dimensional size and shape at each of a plurality of fixed, predefined grid points on the specimen; and a probe template locator, jointly responsive to pixel intensity and the spatial distribution of pixel intensities in an image of the specimen at a plurality of locations in the vicinity of a nominal target location, to determine the most probable location of the probe template corresponding to a specific target; said probe template locator comprising a processor determining the integrated density, ID(x0,y0), at each of said plurality of locations, in accordance with the following formula: ##EQU5## the processor selecting as the most probable location the one which maximizes the formula. 