A processor for processing articles, such as semiconductor wafers, in a substantially clean atmosphere is set forth. The processor includes an enclosure defining a substantially enclosed clean processing chamber and at least one processing station disposed in the processing chamber. An interface section is disposed adjacent an interface end of the enclosure. The interface section includes at least one interface port through which a pod containing articles for processing are loaded or unloaded to or from the processor. The interface section is hygienically separated from the processing chamber since the interface section is generally not as clean as the highly hygienic processing chamber. An article extraction mechanism adapted to seal with the pod is employed. The mechanism is disposed to allow extraction of the articles contained within the pod into the processing chamber without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section. The article processor also preferably includes an article insertion mechanism that is adapted to seal with a pod disposed in the interface section. The article insertion mechanism is disposed to allow insertion of the articles into the pod after processing by the at least one processing station. The article insertion mechanism allows the insertion of the articles without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing articles stored in a container, comprising: an interface section and a processing section with an enclosure and separated by a wall with the interface section including: an entry port; an inventory station having a plurality of positions for holding the article containers; an input/output subassembly positioned for loading article containers between the entry port and the inventory station; and a container docking subassembly having a container transfer mechanism to carry a container from the inventory station to a hatch opening in the wall separating the interface section and the processing section; and with the processing section including: an extractor extendable from the processing section, through the hatch opening and into an article container in the interface section positioned at the hatch opening, to move an article out of the article container and into the processing section, or to move an article from the processing section into an article container; at least one processing station in the processing section; and a robot conveyor movable between the extractor and the at least one processing station, for carrying articles between them. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a hatch cover actuator assembly in the processing section and including a first actuator for moving a hatch cover linearly towards and away from the hatch opening in the wall, and a second actuator for moving the hatch cover vertically. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising an interface plate attached to the hatch cover, and a key and a container door holder extending outwardly from the interface plate, to engage and hold a container door. 4. The system of claim 1 further including a seal between the container and the wall. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the extractor comprises a comb mounted on a carriage assembly. 6. The system of claim 5 with the extractor further comprising a vertical drive for lifting and lowering an article between raised and lowered positions. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein the carriage assembly is mounted on a guide track for linear movement towards and away from the opening in the wall. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising a bunching comb in the processing section, for accumulating articles moved on to the bunching comb by the extractor. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the extractor comprises a first comb, and second comb within the first comb, and a comb driver for moving the first and second combs relative to each other. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the second comb is attached to a carriage assembly, and with a first set of teeth on the first comb and a second set of teeth on the second comb, the first comb movable by the comb driver from a first position, where the first and second sets of teeth are aligned with each other, to a second position, where the first and second sets of teeth are at least partly offset from each other. 11. The system of claim 1 where the extractor includes an engagement arm, and a first actuator attached to the engagement arm for moving the engagement arm to move articles into and out of the container, and the extractor further including a second actuator for rotating the engagement arm, to move articles between a horizontal position and a vertical position. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the container transfer mechanism comprises a robotic arm mounted on a carriage for linear movement along a guide track extending between the inventory station and the docking station. 13. The system of claim 1 further including a loading elevator adjacent to the entry port for lifting and lowering a container between the entry port and the inventory section. 14. The system of claim 13 further including a removable door on the container, and a drive mechanism for turning the container, so that the orientation of the container door opening at the entry port is different from the orientation of the container door opening when the container is at the hatch opening. 15. An apparatus for processing articles stored in a container, comprising: an interface section and a processing section adjoining the interface section; the interface section including: an entry port having an entry port door moveable between an open position and a closed position; an inventory station having an inventory subassembly for moving the article containers in a longitudinal direction through the inventory station; an input/output subassembly positioned for moving the article containers between the entry port and the inventory station; and a container transfer device movable in a lateral direction, perpendicular to the longitudinal direction, to carry a container from the inventory station to a docking station; and with the processing section including an extractor movable in the longitudinal direction into a container at the docking station, to move articles into or out of the container; a plurality of processing stations laterally aligned in the processing section; and a robot conveyor movable in the lateral direction in the processing section, to carry articles to and from the processing stations. 16. The system of claim 15 with the extractor further including a rotary drive for pivoting the article upwardly, from a horizontal position, to a vertical position. 17. The system of claim 15 wherein the container transfer device and the robot conveyor move in directions parallel to each other, and the extractor moves in a direction perpendicular thereto. 18. The system of claim 15 wherein the interface section is sealed off from the processing section, except at a door opening in a wall separating them. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the door opening in the wall is larger than the container door, and further including a hatch interface for moving the container door through the door opening in the wall and into the processing section. 20. The system of claim 19 with the hatch interface including a longitudinal actuator attached to a hatch cover, for moving the hatch cover towards and away from the wall, and a vertical actuator supporting the longitudinal actuator, for moving the hatch cover vertically. 21. The system of claim 15 wherein the extractor includes a carriage on a guide track extending perpendicular to the robot conveyor rail with the guide track vertically movable along a vertical drive column, a rotary drive on the carriage, and a comb assembly attached to the rotary drive. 22. A system for processing articles stored in a container, comprising: an interface section and a processing section within an enclosures a wall separating the interface section from the processing section, with the wall having first and second hatch openings, to allow articles to be moved between the interface section and the processing section; the interface section including: an entry port in the enclosure; an inventory station having a plurality of positions for holding the article containers; an input/output subassembly positioned for loading article containers between the entry port and the inventory station; and first and second container transfer subassemblies, to carry containers from the inventory station to the first and second hatch openings; and with the processing section including: first and second hatch covers attached to first and second hatch cover actuator assemblies, respectively, with the first and second hatch covers moveable towards and away the wall, to close off and open up the first and second hatch openings, respectively; at least one extractor extendable from the processing section through at least one of the first and second hatch openings, and into a container in the interface section, to move an article out of the container and into the processing section, or to move an article from the processing section into the container; at least one processing station in the processing section; and a robot conveyor movable between the at least one extractor and the at least one processing station, for carrying articles between them. 23. A processor for processing articles provided in sealed containers, comprising: a processing section and an interface section wherein the interface section is adjacent to but isolated from the processing section by a barrier having a closeable passageway therethrough; the processing section comprising: (a) an enclosure defining a workspace, the workspace being communicable with the interface section through the passageway; (b) at least one processing station adjacent the workspace, (c) an article transfer station in the workspace; and (d) an article conveyor in the workspace for conveying articles between a processing station and the article transfer station; and the interface section comprising: (a) a container docking station adjacent the passageway for docking an article container to the passageway, and (b) a container opener assembly associated with the container docking station to unseal an article container and open the passageway when the container is engaged and sealed to the passageway; article transfer assembly in the article transfer station adapted to transfer articles through the passageway and between an article container and the transfer station when a container is engaged and sealed to the passageway. 24. An apparatus for processing articles stored in a container sealed via a door container, comprising: an interface section and a processing section adjoining the interface section; the interface section including: an inventory station having an inventory subassembly for holding containers and for moving containers in a longitudinal direction through the inventory station; a docking station; a container docking subassembly and having a container transfer means for moving a container from the inventory station to a docked position at the docking station; the processing section including: a container opener assembly for engaging and removing the container door from the container at the docking station; an extractor movable in the longitudinal direction into a container at the docking station, to move articles into or out of the container; a plurality of processing stations in the processing section; and a robot conveyor movable in the lateral direction along a rail in the processing section, to carry articles to and from the processing stations. 25. The system of claim 24 with the extractor further including a rotary drive for pivoting an article upwardly, from a horizontal position, to a vertical position. 26. The system of claim 24 wherein the container transfer and the robot conveyor move in directions parallel to each other, and the extractor moves in a direction perpendicular thereto. 27. The system of claim 24 wherein the interface section is sealed off from the processing section, except at a door opening in a wall at the docking station. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein the door opening in the wall is larger than the container door, and further including a hatch interface for moving the container door through the door opening in the wall and into the processing section. 29. The system of claim 28 with the hatch interface including a longitudinal actuator attached to a hatch cover, for moving the hatch cover towards and away from the wall, and a vertical actuator supporting the longitudinal actuator, for moving the hatch cover vertically. 30. The system of claim 24 wherein the extractor includes a carriage on a guide track extending perpendicular to the robot conveyor rail, with the guide track vertically movable along a vertical drive column, a rotary drive on the carriage, and a comb assembly attached to the rotary drive. 