A robotic tire end effector apparatus and system including a method for picking up and placing tires positioned horizontally onto vertical stacks of tires. The apparatus and system includes a totem support assembly having a support housing and support bars capable of bearing against the inside diameter of a tire bead and a bottom assembly mounted to the support housing of the totem support assembly. The bottom assembly includes pivot arms and fingers. The fingers are capable of bearing against the inside diameter of the tire bead and supporting the weight of the tire. The support bars are also capable of supporting the weight of a tire. The system includes a computer and program capable of receiving data from the tires for identification, tracing tire location, allocation, pick optimization and continuous calculation of sorting and pick options. The method of use of the apparatus includes positioning the end effector assembly over the top and center of the stack of tires and lowering the end effector assembly through the bead diameters of the stack of tires with the lower pivot arms and the upper support bars in their fully retracted position. The lower pivot arms are pivoted until the fingers firmly bear against the inside diameter of the bead of the lowermost tire. The support bars are extended outwardly until the support bars firmly bear against the inside diameter of the upper tires of the stack. The stack is raised by the end effector assembly to lift the stack of tires.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic tire end effect or apparatus for picking up and placing tires positioned horizontally onto vertical stacks of tires, the apparatus comprising: a totem support assembly having a plurality of support bars capable of bearing against the inside diameter of a tire bead; and a bottom assembly mounted to said totem support assembly, said bottom assembly having a plurality of pivot arms and fingers, said fingers capable of bearing against the inside diameter of a tire bead and supporting the weight of a tire; a computer system comprising a computer programmed to receive tire identification information, trace tire location, control tire allocation, pick optimization and continuous calculation of sorting and pick options by the assembly. 2. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 1, wherein said plurality of support bars are capable of supporting the weight of a tire. 3. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 1, wherein said totem support assembly further comprises a support housing and said plurality of support bars are mounted to said support housing. 4. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 3, wherein said bottom assembly is mounted to said support housing. 5. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 3, wherein said totem support assembly and said plurality of support bars are substantially vertical. 6. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 5, wherein said plurality of support bars are mounted to said support housing with a linkage assembly and said plurality of support bars are capable of a range of horizontal distances from said support housing. 7. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 6, further comprising means for positioning said plurality of support bars relative to said support housing. 8. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a cylinder and rod assembly capable of positioning said plurality of support bars relative to said support housing. 9. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support bars include a deformable strip adapted to bear against the tire bead. 10. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bottom assembly further comprises a means for actuating said plurality of pivot arms. 11. The tire end effector apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bottom assembly further comprises a rotary actuator for actuating said plurality of pivot arms. 12. A method of picking up a stack of tires with a robotic tire end effector assembly having a plurality of upper vertical support bars and a plurality of lower pivot arms and fingers, the method comprising the steps of: positioning the end effector assembly over the top and center of the stack of tires; lowering the end effector assembly through the bead diameters of the stack of tires with the lower pivot arms and the upper support bars in their fully retracted position; pivoting the lower pivot arms until the fingers firmly bear against the inside diameter of the bead of the lowermost tire; extending the support bars outwardly until the support bars firmly bear against the inside diameter of the upper tires of the stack; removing the weight of the upper tires from the lowermost tire in the stack; and raising the end effector assembly to lift the stack of tires. 13. The method of claim 12, after said step of raising the end effector assembly, further comprising the steps of: lowering the end effector assembly and the stack of tires to a support surface; retracting the pivot arms from the inside diameter of the tire bead; and retracting the support bars from the upper tires of the stack. 14. A method of handling and palletizing tires comprising the steps of: obtaining a tire identification from the tire on an infeed conveyor; assigning the tire to a floor destination; determining the optimum pick order of the tires from an infeed conveyor; picking the tires in the optimum pick order from the infeed conveyor; and stacking similar tires on stacks. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of: distributing the tires to the floor; and moving stacks onto a pallet. 