A robotic loader for machinery includes an elongate column configured for being fixedly secured to a support structure or surface. A first motor is attached to the end of the column. The first motor drives a first gearbox. A first arm is fixedly secured to the first gearbox and extends perpendicularly relative to the column. The first arm is rotated in a horizontal plane when the first motor drives the first gearbox. A second motor is attached to the end of the first arm. The second motor drives a second gearbox. A stub arm is attached to the second gear box. The stub arm is parallel with the first arm. The stub arm is rotated in a horizontal second plane when the second motor drives the second gearbox. A third motor is attached to the stub arm and drives a third gearbox. A link arm is attached to the third gearbox and extends therefrom in a parallel manner relative to the first arm. The link arm is rotated in a vertical plane when the third motor drives the third gearbox.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A robotic loader for use with automatic machinery, comprising: an elongate column having a first end and a second end, said first end configured for being fixedly secured to a support structure or surface; a first motor attached proximate to said second end of said elongate column, said first motor driving a first gearbox; a first elongate arm having a first end and a second end, said first end fixedly secured to said first gearbox, said first elongate arm extending in a substantially perpendicular manner relative to said column, said first elongate arm being rotated in a substantially horizontal first plane when said first motor drives said first gearbox; a second motor attached to said second end of said first elongate arm, said second motor driving a second gearbox; a stub arm having a first end and a second end, said first end being attached to said second gear box, said stub arm being substantially parallel with said first elongate arm, said stub arm being rotated in a substantially horizontal second plane when said second motor drives said second gearbox; a plate attached to said second end of said stub arm; a third motor attached to said plate, said third motor driving a third gearbox; an elongate link arm having a first end and a second end, said first end being attached to said third gearbox, said link arm extending from said third gearbox in a substantially parallel manner relative to said first elongate arm, said link arm being rotated in a substantially vertical plane when said third motor drives said third gearbox; and an elongate trailing arm having a first end and a second end, said first end of said trailing arm being rotatably connected to said plate, said trailing arm extending in a substantially parallel manner relative to said link arm, said trailing aim configured for being rotated in a substantially vertical plane when said third motor drives said third gearbox. 2. The robotic loader of claim 1, wherein said link arm has a first length, said trailing arm has a second length, said first length being substantially equal to said second length. 3. The robotic loader of claim 1, wherein said link arm has a first length, said trailing arm has a second length, said first length being a predetermined amount different from said second length. 4. The robotic loader of claim 1, further comprising a wrist plate attached to each said second end of said link arm and said trailing arm. 5. The robotic loader of claim 4, further comprising a housing attached to said wrist plate. 6. The robotic loader of claim 5, further comprising a fourth motor disposed within said housing, said fourth motor driving a fourth gear box. 7. The robotic loader of claim 6, wherein said fourth motor has a vertical axis of rotation. 8. The robotic loader of claim 6, wherein each of said first motor, said second motor, said third motor and said fourth motor are configured for being controlled by a computer. 9. The robotic loader of claim 8, further comprising a computer, said computer including a program configured for controlling said first motor, said second motor, said third motor and said fourth motor. 10. The robotic loader of claim 1, wherein each of said first gearbox, said second gearbox and said third gearbox are harmonic gearboxes. 