Methods of genotyping amplified mixtures of DNAs, nucleic acid markers and methods of obtaining markers, kits, recombinant plants, positional cloning and integrated systems for making genotypes and assessing hybridizations are provided. These features are applicable to DNA fingerprinting, marker assisted selection, genotyping, cladistic analysis of variance, and high throughput laboratory screening methods.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising at least two marker nucleic acids, which specifically hybridize to a nucleotide polymorphism and uniquely maps to a single site in a haploid genomic DNA of a plant or animal, and an amplified mixture of DNA isolated from a biological source, wherein the amplified mixture comprises a heterogeneous amplified mixture comprising a plurality of target nucleic acids comprising polymorphisms in amplified form and wherein the amplified mixture of DNA is made by cleaving a biological genomic DNA sample with at least one restriction enzyme, thereby providing DNA restriction fragments; ligating an adaptor nucleic acid to the DNA restriction fragments; hybridizing primers comprising a subsequence complementary to the adaptor nucleic acid; and, extending the primers with a thermostable DNA polymerase, thereby providing the amplified mixture of DNA comprising a selectively amplified mixture of DNAs. 2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the primers comprise an arbitrary 3' nucleotide and the method further comprises further amplifying the selectively amplified mixture of DNAs using an amplification primer comprising 3 arbitrary nucleotides at a 3' end of the amplification primer. 3. The composition of claim 1, wherein the at least two marker nucleic acids are fixed to a solid substrate. 4. The composition of claim 1, wherein the amplified mixture is fixed to a solid substrate. 5. A method of characterizing a nucleic acid, comprising: providing at least one probe which hybridizes to a marker in linkage disequilibrium with a polymorphism; amplifying a mixture of nucleic acids comprising a plurality of target nucleic acids comprising polymorphisms, thereby providing a heterogeneous amplified nucleic acid mixture comprising the plurality of target nucleic acids in amplified form; and, hybridizing the at least one probe to the amplified nucleic acid mixture, thereby detecting at least one target nucleic acid in amplified form. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the mixture of nucleic acids is RNA. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the heterogeneous amplified nucleic acid mixture is made by cleaving the mixture of nucleic acids with at least one restriction enzyme, thereby providing nucleic acid restriction fragments; ligating an adaptor nucleic acid to the nucleic acid restriction fragments; hybridizing primers comprising a subsequence complementary to the adaptor nucleic acid, wherein at least one of the primers comprises about tree or more arbitrary 3' nucleotides which are not complementary to the adaptor nucleic acid; and, extending the primers with a thermostable polymerase, thereby providing the heterogeneous amplified nucleic acid mixture comprising a selectively amplified mixture of nucleic acids. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the mixture of nucleic acids is synthetic DNA. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the probe is a member of an away of probes, which array comprises additional probes which hybridize to one or more markers in linkage disequilibrium with at least one polymorphism. 10. A method of mapping a polymorphic genetic marker, comprising the steps of: (i) providing a mixture of nucleic acids from biological samples; (ii) amplifying the mixture of nucleic acids, thereby providing an amplified mixture comprising a plurality of polymorphic nucleic acids in amplified form; (iii) identifying a set of differentially amplified nucleic acids in the amplified mixture; and, (iv) mapping at least one of the differentially amplified nucleic acids to a unique genetic polymorphism, thereby providing a marker for the polymorphism. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the mixture of nucleic acids is amplified using an amplification technique selected from the group consisting of: cloning, PCR, LCR, TAS, 3SR, NASBA and Q.beta.amplification. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the mixture of nucleic acids is amplified by cleaving the mixture of nucleic acids with at least one restriction enzyme, thereby providing nucleic acid restriction fragments; ligating an adaptor nucleic acid to the nucleic acid restriction fragments; hybridizing primers comprising a subsequence complementary to the adaptor nucleic acid, wherein at least one of the primers comprises about three or more arbitrary 3' nucleotides which are not complementary to the adaptor nucleic acid; and, extending the primers with a thermostable polymerase, thereby providing a selectively amplified mixture of nucleic acids. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one of the biological samples is selected from the group consisting of cDNA, genomic DNA isolated from a plant, genomic DNA isolated from a plant extract, genomic DNA isolated from an isolated plant tissue, genomic DNA isolated from an isolated plant tissue extract, genomic DNA isolated from a plant cell culture, genomic DNA isolated from a plant cell culture extract, genomic DNA isolated from a recombinant cell comprising a nucleic acid derived from a plant, genomic DNA isolated from a plant seed, genomic DNA isolated from an extract of a recombinant plant cell comprising a nucleic acid derived from a plant, genomic DNA isolated from an animal, genomic DNA isolated from an animal extract, genomic DNA isolated from an isolated animal tissue, genomic DNA isolated from an isolated animal tissue extract, genomic DNA isolated from an animal cell culture, genomic DNA isolated from an animal cell culture extract, genomic DNA isolated from a recombinant animal cell comprising a nucleic acid derived from an animal, genomic DNA isolated from an animal egg, genomic DNA isolated from an extract of a recombinant animal cell, DNA isolated from a mitochondria, and DNA isolated from a chloroplast. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein more than one of the differentially amplified nucleic acids are mapped, thereby providing a set of markers of unique genetic polymorphisms. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one of the differentially amplified nucleic acids maps proximal to a QTL. 16. A high-throughput method of selecting polymorphic variants by marker assisted selection, the method comprising the steps of: (i) providing a mixture of nucleic acids from a biological source, wherein the mixture of nucleic acids is a heterogeneous amplified mixture comprising a plurality of target nucleic acids comprising polymorphis in amplified form, the mixture optionally comprising a first target nucleic acid which hybridizes to a first marker nucleic acid which hybridizes to a first locus comprising a first nucleotide polymorphism; and, (ii) selecting the biological source for the presence or absence of the fist target nucleic acid in the mixture of nucleic acids, said presence or absence measured by hybridization of the marker nucleic acid to the mixture, thereby selecting for the presence or absence of the first nucleotide polymorphism. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the heterogeneous amplified mixture is made by cleaving the mixture of nucleic acids with at least one restriction enzyme, thereby providing nucleic acid restriction fragments; ligating an adaptor nucleic acid to the nucleic acid restriction fragments; hybridizing primers comprising a subsequence complementay to the adaptor nucleic acid, wherein at least one of the primers comprises about three or more arbitrary 3' nucleotides which are not complementary to the adaptor nucleic acid; and, extending the primers with a thermostable polymerase, thereby providing an amplified mixture of nucleic acids to use in the selection step. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the biological source is selected from the group consisting of a plant, a plant extract, an isolated plant tissue, an isolated plant tissue extract, a plant cell culture, a plant cell culture extract, a recombinant cell comprising a nucleic acid derived from a plant, a plant seed, an extract of a recombinant plant cell comprising a nucleic acid derived from a plant, an animal, a animal extract, an isolated animal tissue, an isolated animal tissue extract, an animal cell culture, an animal cell culture extract, a recombinant animal cell comprising a nucleic acid derived from an animal, an animal egg, an extract of a recombinant animal cell, a DNA isolated from a mitochondria and a DNA isolated from a chloroplast. 19. The method of claim 17, the mixture of nucleic acids optionally further comprising a second amplified target nucleic acid which hybridizes to a second marker nucleic acid which hybridizes to a second locus comprising a second nucleotide polymorphism, the method further comprising selecting the biological source for the presence or absence of the second target nucleic acid in the mixture of amplified DNAs, thereby selecting for the presence or absence of the second nucleotide polymorphism. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the first polymorphic nucleotide is in linkage disequilibrium with a QTL and wherein the method further comprises backcrossing a plant or animal comprising the polymorphic nucleotide to a selected plant or animal to introgress the QTL into the selected plant or animal. 