A wafer carrier is formed from at least two different melt processable plastic materials in which the two plastic materials are strategically positioned for optimal performance and have a thermophysical bond created during an overmolding process. The invention includes carriers made of such different melt processable plastic materials and includes the process for manufacturing such carriers. In a preferred embodiment a H-bar wafer carrier will have a first structural portion molded of polycarbonate in a first mold cavity and will then have the polycarbonate molded portion placed in a second mold cavity and polyetheretherketone will be injection molded to form wafer contact portions on the H-bar carrier. Process temperatures and mold temperatures are controlled to provide optimal bonding between the dissimilar materials. Thus, an integral wafer carrier of composite materials is formed. An additional embodiment utilizes components such as shelves or sidewall inserts for holding wafers molded of two dissimilar plastics and said components are assembled within a disk enclosure such as a transport module.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for manufacturing a wafer carrier comprising the steps of: melting a first plastic that comprises a polycarbonate resin, wherein the polycarbonate material has a glass transition temperature, injection molding a base portion of the first plastic in a first mold portion, placing the molded base portion in a second mold portion, and overmolding a plurality of wafer contact portions on the base portion using a second different plastic thereby forming a bond without mechanical fasteners between the wafer contact portions and the base portion forming the wafer carrier, wherein a temperature of the second mold is maintained below the glass transition temperature of the polycarbonate resin when overmolding the plurality of wafer contact portions. 2. The process of claim 1 further comprising the step of melting a resin comprised of one of the set of polyetheretherketone and polyetherimide as the second plastic. 3. The process of claim 2 further comprising the addition of carbon fiber to the one of the set of polyetheretherketone and polyetherimide. 4. A process for manufacturing an integral composite wafer carrier portion comprising: a) injecting a first thermoplastic material into a mold cavity at a predetermined location to form a carrier base portion, wherein the first thermoplastic has dimensional stability; b) injecting a second thermoplastic material contacting the first material while the second material is molten to form a disk engaging wafer contact portion with an interface therebetween, wherein the disk engaging wafer contact portion defines a plurality of slots for holding a plurality of wafers, and c) allowing the second portion to cool thereby solidifying the second thermoplastic material and thereby forming a bond between the first portion and the second portion. 5. The process of claim 4 further comprising the step of allowing the first portion to solidify before injection of the second thermoplastic material. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the mold cavity is a first mold cavity and wherein the process further comprises the step of removing the first portion from the first mold cavity and placing the first portion in a second mold cavity before the injection of the second material. 7. A process of molding a wafer carrier comprising the steps of claim 4 and further comprising the step of: assembling the integral composite wafer carrier portion with at least one additional component to thereby form the wafer carrier. 8. A process of molding a wafer carrier comprising the steps of claim 4 and further comprising the step of removing the wafer portion from the second mold cavity wherein said integral composite wafer carrier portion comprises the wafer carrier. 9. The process of molding a wafer carrier comprising the steps of claim 4 and further comprising the steps of: removing the integral composite overmolded wafer carrier portion and assembling the integral composite overmolded wafer carrier portion with at least one additional component to thereby form the wafer carrier. 10. A process for manufacturing a wafer carrier comprising the steps of: injection molding an integral support base portion of a first plastic material in a first mold portion, wherein the first plastic material has dimensional stability; placing the molded integral support base portion in a second mold portion; and overmolding a plurality of disk engaging wafer contact portions to the integral support base portion using a second plastic material in a second mold portion, wherein the plurality of disk engaging wafer contact portions define a plurality of slots for holding a plurality of wafers, wherein the second plastic material is different from the first plastic material, wherein the second plastic material bonds with the plastic material without mechanical fasteners between the wafer contact portions and the integral support base portion, and wherein the second material has at least one of the following characteristics: reducing static discharge and resisting abrasion. 11. The process for manufacturing a wafer carrier of claim 10, and further comprising the step of removing the integral composite overmolded wafer carrier portion from the second mold portion, wherein the integral composite overmolded wafer carrier portion comprises the wafer carrier. 