A mobile robot provides telecommunication service between a remote user at a remote terminal and a local user in proximity to the mobile robot. The remote user can connect to the mobile robot via the Internet using a peer-to-peer VoIP protocol, and control the mobile robot to navigate about the mobile robot's environment. The mobile robot includes a microphone, a video camera and a speaker for providing telecommunication functionality between the remote user and the local user. Also, a hand-held RC unit permits the local user to navigate the mobile robot locally or to engage privacy mode for the mobile robot. When NAT or a firewall obstructs connection from the remote terminal to the mobile robot, an Internet server facilitates connection using methods such as STUN, TURN, or relaying.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote control (RC) unit configured to wirelessly control a mobile robot having a robot camera, comprising: a privacy button operable by a local user and configured to engage a privacy mode of the mobile robot; and an infrared transmitter configured to emit an infrared control signal to the mobile robot based on input from a keypad of the RC unit, wherein the infrared control signal is configured to cause the robot camera to change position to block the field of view of the camera such that the environment of the mobile robot, other than the robot's body, is obscured when the privacy mode is engaged. 2. The RC unit according to claim 1, further comprising an RC microphone configured to generate RC sound data, wherein the infrared control signal includes the RC sound data, and the RC sound data is transmitted to a remote user of the mobile robot. 3. The RC unit according to claim 1, further comprising: an audio mute button configured to stop transmission of sound data from the mobile robot to a remote user; and a video mute button configured to stop transmission of video data from the mobile robot to the remote user. 4. The RC unit according to claim 1, further comprising: a sliding cover shiftable between an open position and a closed position, wherein the sliding cover covers at least one button when the sliding cover is in the closed position, wherein the at least one button is exposed when the sliding cover is in the open position, and wherein the privacy button is exposed both when the sliding cover is in the open position and also when the sliding cover is in the closed position. 5. The RC unit of claim 1, wherein the infrared control signal is configured to disable one or more of a microphone and a speaker at the mobile robot when the privacy mode is engaged. 6. The RC unit of claim 1, wherein the infrared control signal is configured to prevent data generated by a microphone of the mobile robot from being transmitted to a remote terminal. 7. A remote control (RC) unit configured to wirelessly control a mobile robot having a robot camera, comprising: an input device operable by a local user and configured to engage a privacy mode of the mobile robot; and a transmitter configured to emit a control signal to the mobile robot based on input from the input device of the RC unit, wherein the control signal is configured to cause the robot camera to change position to block the field of view of the robot camera such that the environment of the mobile robot, other than the robot's body, is obscured when the privacy mode is engaged. 8. The RC unit according to claim 7, further comprising an RC microphone configured to generate RC sound data, wherein the control signal includes the RC sound data, and the RC sound data is transmitted to a remote user of the mobile robot. 9. The RC unit according to claim 7, further comprising: an audio mute button configured to stop transmission of sound data from the mobile robot to a remote user; and a video mute button configured to stop transmission of video data from the mobile robot to the remote user. 10. The RC unit according to claim 7, further comprising: a sliding cover shiftable between an open position and a closed position, wherein the sliding cover covers at least one button when the sliding cover is in the closed position, wherein the at least one button is exposed when the sliding cover is in the open position, and wherein the privacy button is exposed both when the sliding cover is in the open position and also when the sliding cover is in the closed position. 11. The RC unit according to claim 7, wherein the transmitter is an infrared transmitter configured to emit an infrared control signal to the mobile robot. 12. The RC unit according to claim 7, wherein the transmitter is a radio frequency transmitter configured to emit a radio frequency control signal to the mobile robot. 13. The RC unit according to claim 7, wherein the transmitter is a light emitting diode (LED) configured to emit a visible light control signal to the mobile robot. 14. The RC unit according to claim 7, wherein the control signal is configured to disable one or more of a microphone and a speaker at the mobile robot when the privacy mode is engaged. 15. The RC unit of claim 7, wherein the control signal is configured to prevent data generated by a microphone of the mobile robot from being transmitted to a remote terminal. 16. A method of controlling a mobile robot having a robot camera, the method comprising: receiving an input at an input device of a remote control (RC) unit to engage a privacy mode of the mobile robot; emitting a control signal to the mobile robot based on input from the input device to engage the privacy mode; and in response to receiving the emitted control signal at the mobile robot indicating that the privacy mode is engaged, moving the robot camera into a conspicuously disabled orientation. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein moving the robot camera comprises changing a position of the robot camera to block the field of view of the robot camera such that the environment of the mobile robot, other than the robot's body. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising disabling one or more of a microphone and a speaker at the mobile robot in response to receiving the emitted control signal indicating that the privacy mode is engaged. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising preventing data generated by a microphone of the mobile robot from being transmitted to a remote terminal in response to receiving the emitted control signal indicating that the privacy mode is engaged. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising overriding a conflicting command for the mobile robot received from a remote terminal when the input is received at the input device at the RC unit to engage the privacy mode of the mobile robot. 