A media element library includes a magazine of media element storage locations comprising at least one cell adjacent to an opening in the housing. The cell may be moveable so as to extend toward the opening in the housing of the media element library, thereby facilitating user access to a media element stored in the moveable cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media element library comprising: a housing; a door mounted to said housing; and a media element magazine comprising (1) a linear array of a plurality of media element storage locations which are fixed with respect to said housing during library operation, and (2) one or more moveable media element storage locations, at least a first one of which is coupled to an end of said linear array so as to be manually movable towards said door, wherein said first moveable media element storage location is positioned relative to said door such that a media element in said first moveable media element storage location is accessible from outside the housing when said door is open. 2. The media element library of claim 1, wherein the media elements are tape cartridges. 3. The media element library of claim 1, wherein the media elements are optical disks. 4. The media element library of claim 1, wherein the media elements are magnetic disks. 5. The media element library of claim 1, further comprising an electrically actuated latch release mechanism coupled to the door. 6. The media element library of claim 1, further comprising an electrically actuated latch release mechanism coupled to the magazine. 7. The media element library of claim 1, further comprising: a first electrically actuated latch release mechanism coupled to the door and configured to release said door in response to a first access code input to the library; and a second electrically actuated latch release mechanism coupled to the magazine and configured to release said magazine in response to a second access code input to the library. 8. The media element library of claim 1, wherein said first moveable storage location is attached to the media element magazine by a pivot shaft which allows the first movable storage location to pivot about an axis. 9. The media element library of claim 1, further comprising a bias element attached to the first movable storage location and to the media element magazine. 10. A media element library comprising: a housing; an opening in a portion of said housing; a linear array of media element cells in fixed position with respect to said housing forming a media element magazine, wherein an end of the magazine is adjacent to said opening; and a moveable cell coupled to said end of said magazine adjacent to said opening, wherein said movable cell is manually movable towards said opening. 11. The media element library of claim 10, wherein the moveable cell is attached to the media element magazine by a pivot shaft which allows the first cell to pivot about an axis. 12. The media element library of claim 10, further comprising a bias element attached to the moveable cell and the media element magazine. 13. A method of accessing a media element from inside a media element library comprising: delivering a media element from a fixed cell to a tiltable cell of a media element magazine; tilting the cell toward an opening in the media element library and away from other cells in the media element magazine; and removing the media element from the cell. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the opening is formed by opening a door. 15. A media element library comprising: a housing having an access opening therein; a plurality of coupled media element storage locations fixed relative to said housing forming a media element magazine; a manually movable storage location in said media element magazine adjacent to said access opening; means for manually moving said movable storage location so as to access a media element directly from said manually moveable storage location adjacent to said opening; and means for simultaneously restricting access to the fixed storage locations storing other media elements in said media element magazine. 16. A media element magazine comprising: a linear array of media element cells in fixed relative position; and at least one movable cell coupled to one end of said linear array such that said at least one movable cell is manually movable towards a doorway upon installation in a media element library. 17. The media element magazine of claim 16, wherein the movable cell is attached to the media element magazine by a pivot shaft which allows the at least one movable cell to pivot about an axis. 18. The media element magazine of claim 17, further comprising a bias element attached to the at least one movable cell and the media element magazine. 19. A method of making a media element library comprising: coupling a plurality of media element storage locations so as to form a linear array of media element storage locations which are fixed with respect to one another; coupling a movable storage location to an end of said linear array such that said movable storage location is manually movable with respect to said end of said linear array; and positioning said movable storage location relative to an opening in a said media element library such that manual access through said opening to a media element stored in said movable storage location is allowed, and manual access through said opening to at least one media element stored in one or more other media element storage locations is restricted. 20. A media element library comprising: a housing; a door mounted to said housing; a plurality of coupled media element storage locations forming a media element magazine, wherein at least a first media element storage location of said media element magazine is movable relative to other media element storage locations and positioned relative to said door such that a media element in said at least a first media element storage location is accessible from outside the housing when said door is open, and wherein at least a second media element storage location of said media element magazine is positioned relative to said door such that a media element in said at least a second media element storage location is inaccessible from outside the housing when said door is open; and a spring attached to the movable storage location and to the media element magazine, wherein the movable storage location is bi-stable in the closed, upright position and also in the open, pivoted position. 21. A media element library comprising: a housing; an opening in a portion of said housing; a plurality of media element cells forming a media element magazine, wherein an end of the magazine is adjacent to said opening; a moveable cell coupled to said end of said magazine adjacent to said opening; and a spring attached to the moveable cell and the media element magazine, wherein the moveable cell is bi-stable in the closed, upright position and also in the open, pivoted position. 22. A media element magazine comprising: a plurality of media element cells configured to store media elements; a movable cell coupled to one end of the media element magazine by a pivot shaft which allows the cell to pivot about an axis; and a spring attached to the cell and the media element magazine, wherein the movable cell is bi-stable in the closed, upright position and also in the open, pivoted position. 