In one aspect, a method of interconnecting two or more foils of a capacitor, the method comprising connecting together one or more anode connection members of one or more anode foils and one or more cathode connection members of one or more cathode foils and electrically isolating the one or more anode foils from the one or more cathode foils. In one aspect, a capacitor having a first anode layer, a second anode layer, a cathode layer between the first anode layer and the second anode layer, a first separator layer between the first anode layer and the cathode layer, a second separator layer between the second anode layer and the cathode layer; and a conductive interconnect between the first anode layer and the second anode layer, the conductive interconnect passing through a cathode hole in the cathode; wherein the conductive interconnect has a cross section which is smaller than the cathode hole and the conductive interconnect is placed to avoid direct electrical contact with the cathode layer and wherein the first anode and the second anode are electrically connected through the conductive interconnect.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A capacitor, comprising: a first anode layer; a second anode layer; a cathode layer between the first anode layer and the second anode layer; a first separator layer between the first anode layer and the cathode layer; a second separator layer between the second anode layer and the cathode layer; and a conductive interconnect between the first anode layer and the second anode layer, the conductive interconnect passing through a cathode hole in the cathode; wherein the conductive interconnect has a cross section which is smaller than the cathode hole and the conductive interconnect is placed to avoid direct electrical contact with the cathode layer and wherein the first anode and the second anode are electrically connected through the conductive interconnect. 2. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the first anode layer is substantially flat. 3. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect is aluminum. 4. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the cross section is circular. 5. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the cross section is noncircular. 6. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conduction interconnect is ultrasonically welded to the first anode layer and the second anode layer. 7. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conduction interconnect is resistance welded to the first anode layer and the second anode layer. 8. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect mates to an unetched region of the first anode layer. 9. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect mates to an unformed region of the first anode layer. 10. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a rivet. 11. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a wire. 12. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a conductive epoxy. 13. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a conductive polymer. 14. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a polyimide filled with aluminum. 15. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a fused aluminum powder. 16. The capacitor of claim 1, wherein the conductive interconnect includes a conductive staple. 