Methods and apparatus for "Intelligent" control of production processes such as machining, casting, heat treating and welding are disclosed. The key enabler of such control is electro-optical or other suitable sensors, generally non contact, capable of rapidly and accurately acquiring data from parts and tools used to produce them in a production "in-process" environment. Systems are disclosed to control not only the instant operation, but those processes connected therewith, both upstream and downstream. Data bases are generated and knowledge bases are used. Application of the invention can improve quality and productivity, and allow the production of parts which have unusual or individual material characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for optimizing an assembly process, comprising the steps of: (a) assembling at least two parts using an existing process in an assembly apparatus to form an assembly; (b) measuring at least one parameter of one of the parts using at least one sensor affiliated with the assembly apparatus; (c) recording the at least one measured parameter of one of the parts in a database; (d) introducing an assembly process change; (e) measuring at least one parameter of one or more subsequent parts assembled in the assembly apparatus; f)recording the at least one measured parameter of the subsequent part in a database; (g) determining from the recorded measured parameters at least one further change to optimize the assembly process; and (h) making the at least one further change. 2. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the part is an assembly of component parts. 3. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the part is one of a group of component parts assembled to make an assembled part. 4. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the process change includes the provision of a new assembly tool. 5. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the change is in the assembly apparatus. 6. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the change is in one or more subsequent parts. 7. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the change is made to optimize the use of the assembly apparatus. 8. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1 wherein said determining step comprises the step of comparing the measured parameter with information in a data base. 9. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1 wherein said measuring steps (b) and (e) include measuring at least two parameters of one of the parts, and said recording steps (c) and (f) include recording the at least two measured parameters from steps (b) and (e), respectively. 10. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 9 wherein the making step includes a control device which changes a position of part locators. 11. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 10 wherein the control device changes a shape of the part locator at a surface of a part being located. 12. A method for optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of repeating steps (a)-(b) until a desired level of assembly process improvement is obtained. 13. A method of optimizing an assembly process by learning properties of parts to be assembled, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a means for recording a data base, (b) providing an assembly apparatus equipped with one or more positioning devices and at least one sensor which senses characteristics relating to the assembly of the parts; (c) repetitively assembling parts using the assembly apparatus; (d) determining with the sensor an assembly characteristic; (e) recording the assembly characteristic in the data base; and (f) using the assembly characteristic to optimize the assembly process. 14. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 13, wherein the characteristic relating to the assembly of the parts is a part characteristic. 15. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 13, wherein the characteristic relating to the assembly of the parts is a positioning device characteristic. 16. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 13, wherein the characteristic relating to the assembly of the parts is a characteristic of the assembly apparatus. 17. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 13, wherein the characteristic relating to the assembly of the parts is a characteristic of the positioning device. 18. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 13, wherein the characteristic relating to the assembly of the parts is a characteristic of an assembly of component parts. 19. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 13, wherein the characteristic relating to the assembly of the parts is a characteristic of a component part. 20. A method of optimizing an assembly process by learning properties of parts to be assembled, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a device for recording a data base, (b) providing an assembly apparatus with at least one sensor for determining assembly characteristics, (c) repetitively assembling parts with an assembly tool, (d) determining with the sensor characteristics of the assembly with a first set of assembly apparatus parameters, and recording same in the data base, (e) changing a parameter of the assembly apparatus, repeating the process until the data base has stored sufficient data for optimizing the assembly process; and (g) using the data of assembly apparatus parameters to optimize the assembly process. 21. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 20, wherein the parts are component parts. 22. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 20, wherein the part is an assembly of component parts. 23. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 20, wherein the assembly characteristic as a part characteristic. 24. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 20, wherein the assembly characteristic as a assembly apparatus characteristic. 25. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 20, incorporating the further step of utilizing information in the data base to optimize a design of the parts. 26. A method of optimizing an assembly process as claimed in claim 20, incorporating the further step of utilizing information in the data base to optimize the assembly apparatus. 