An in-mold and in-line decorating method is disclosed which, using a single sheet layer, allows the placement of the highest possible quality graphics into the surface of products made from a variety of moldable thermoplastic, thermoset, and vulcanizable materials using a variety of molding processes. The methods also provide new or improved capabilities for product identification, safety, and serialized tracking.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article produced by the steps of: introducing a single layer microporous sheet having a first and a second surface and containing a printed and over-coated image on the first surface into a mold, contacting the second surface of said single layer microporous sheet with a thermoplastic polymer, and permanently fusing said single layer microporous sheet into the surface of said polymer during the molding process to produce an in-mold decorated article. 2. The article of claim 1 where said article is selected from the group consisting of a table top, a chair, a control panel, a logo label, a molded toy, a fishing lure, a molded carrying case, a lampshade, a trash container, a tool housing, a vacuum cleaner, a case for a compact disk or DVD, mailbox, a child safety seat, toilet seat, an enclosure for a dart board, a container for cosmetics, a barrel for transporting or storing chemicals, a plate intended to hold food, a cup or tumbler intended to hold a beverage, the door of a safety deposit box, a water-fowl decoy, a chute on a lawn mower, a three dimensional lid for a beverage cooler, an escutcheon panel for an appliance, a cover plate for a wall mounted electrical switch or outlet, and the opaque surround area of a clear plastic projection lens. 3. The article of claim 2 where said image is created using a method selected from the group consisting of lithography, screen printing, flexography, high resolution ink-jet printing, and color or monochrome electrostatic laser printing. 4. The article of claim 2 where said thermoplastic polymer is recycled plastic. 5. An article produced by the steps of: introducing a single layer microporous sheet having a first and a second surface and containing a printed and over-coated image on the first surface into a mold, contacting the second surface of said single layer microporous sheet with a thermosetting or vulcanizable material, and permanently fusing said single layer microporous sheet into the surface of said material during a thermosetting or vulcanization molding process to produce an in-mold decorated article. 6. The article of claim 5 where said molding process is selected from the group consisting of injection molding, vulcanization and compression molding. 7. The article of claim 5 where said article is selected from the group consisting of tires, belts, housings and enclosures. 8. The article of claim 5 where said printed image is selected from the group consisting of barcodes, logos, text, numbers, and metallic appearance graphics. 9. The article of claim 5 where said over-coated image is formed by coating the printed image with a material which prevents damage to said image from exposure to petroleum distillate materials. 10. The article of claim 5 where said article is selected from the group consisting of truck mud flaps, signs, and underfoot advertising mats. 11. The article of claim 5 where said article exhibits a coefficient of friction greater than 0.60 as measured under ASTM 2047. 12. The article of claim 5 where said vulcanizable material is derived from over 50% recycled tires. 13. An article produced by the steps of: providing a silica filled microporous polymer sheet having a first surface and a second surface, applying a metallic material to the first surface of said silica filled microporous polymer sheet, introducing said sheet into a mold or extrusion device, contacting the second surface of said sheet with a polymer, and permanently fusing said sheet into the surface of said polymer during a thermoplastic or thermoset molding process. 14. The article of claim 13 where said article is selected from the group consisting of reflective element of a light assembly, a mirror in a cosmetic container, and electrical circuit, and an electromagnetic shield. 15. An article produced by the steps of: introducing a silica filled microporous sheet into a mold, contacting said sheet with a first polymer and permanently fusing said sheet material into the surface of said first polymer during a molding process to produce a surface to which a second and dissimilar polymer can be fused creating a bond between dissimilar polymers. 16. The article of claim 15 where said first polymer and said second and dissimilar polymer are selected from the group consisting of a polyolefin plastic with acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene and rubber with plastic. 17. An article produced by the steps of: introducing a silica filled microporous sheet into a mold, contacting said sheet with a polymer, and permanently fusing said sheet into the surface of said polymer during a molding process to produce a molded surface capable of accepting adhesives for attachment of other materials to the molded surface. 18. The article of claim 17 further including a reflective laminate adhesively attached to said molded surface. 