Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sampling a plurality of non-biological polymer samples for analysis in a polymer characterization system, the method comprising (a) withdrawing at least a portion of a non-biological polymer sample from a sample container into a probe of an auto-sampler, (b) expelling at least a portion of the withdrawn sample to a sample-preparation container, (c) pretreating the expelled sample to form a pretreated sample, (d) withdrawing at least a portion of the pretreated sample into the auto-sampler probe, (e) delivering at least a portion of the withdrawn pretreated sample from the probe to a non-biological polymer characterization system, (f) serially repeating steps (a) through (e) for each of the plurality of polymer samples. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising cleaning the auto-sampler probe after delivering at least a portion of the pretreated sample to the polymer characterization system. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein pretreating comprises diluting the sample. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein pretreating comprises separating one or more components of the sample from other components thereof. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the pretreating comprises mixing the sample. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein pretreating comprises mixing the sample with an additional component by: adding an additional component to the sample, inserting the auto-sampler probe into the sample in the sample-preparation container, removing the auto-sampler probe from the sample-preparation container, and repeating the steps of inserting and removing the auto-sampler probe at least once. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample is pretreated by mixing the sample with an additional component by: adding an additional component to the sample, withdrawing at least a substantial portion of the sample from the sample-preparation container into the auto-sampler probe, expelling the withdrawn portion back into the sample-preparation container, and repeating the steps of withdrawing and expelling from and to the sample-preparation container at least once. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 8 or more samples. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 40 or more samples. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 80 or more samples. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 150 or more samples. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 400 or more samples. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of samples is 1000 or more samples. 14. A method for sampling a plurality of non-biological polymer samples for analysis in a polymer characterization system, the method comprising (a) withdrawing at least a portion of a non-biological polymer sample from a library of non-biological polymer samples into a probe of an auto-sampler, the library of polymer samples comprising a plurality of different non-biological polymer samples spatially separated on a common substrate, (b) expelling at least a portion of the withdrawn sample to a sample-preparation container, (c) pretreating the expelled sampler to form a pretreated sample, (d) withdrawing at least a portion of the pretreated sample into the auto-sampler probe, (e) delivering at least a portion of the withdrawn pretreated sample to a non-biological polymer characterization system, (f) serially repeating steps (a) through (e) for each of the plurality of polymer samples. 15. A method for sampling a plurality of non-biological polymer samples for analysis for on-line process monitoring or control, the method comprising (a) withdrawing at least a portion of a non-biological polymer sample from a sample portion into a probe of an auto-sampler, the sample port being in fluid communication with an industrial polymerization process line, (b) expelling at least a portion of the withdrawn sample to a sample-preparation container, (c) pretreating the expelled sample to form a pretreated sample, (d) withdrawing at least a portion of the pretreated sample into the auto-sampler probe, (e) delivering at least a portion of the withdrawn pretreated sample mixture to a non-biological polymer characterization system for analysis for on-line process monitoring or control, (f) serially repeating steps (a) through (e) for each of the plurality of polymer sample. 16. The method of claim 1, 14, or 15, wherein the polymer characterization system is high-performance liquid chromatography system. 17. The method of claim 1, 14, or 15 wherein the polymer characterization system is a flow-injection analysis system. 18. The method of claim 1 or 14 wherein the polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein the polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reactant materials, catalysts, catalyst precursors, initiators, additives or the relative amounts thereof. 20. The method of claim 14 wherein the polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from polymerization reactions that are varied with respect to reaction conditions. 21. The method of claim 14 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are polymerization product mixtures resulting from synthesis in a parallel polymerization reaction. 22. The method of claim 14 wherein the library of polymer samples comprises four or more different polymer samples in vials supported by the common substrate. 23. The method of claim 1 or 14 wherein the samples are withdrawn from reaction vessels or glass-lined reaction vessels. 24. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the a first sample is withdrawn at a first time, t.sub.ASW1, a second sample is withdrawn at a second time, t.sub.ASW2, and the difference in time for serially sampling consecutive samples, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 40 seconds. 25. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the a first sample is withdrawn at a first time, t.sub.ASW1, a second sample is withdrawn at a second time, t.sub.ASW2, and the difference in time for serially sampling consecutive samples, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 30 seconds. 26. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the a first sample is withdrawn at a first time, t.sub.ASW1, a second sample is withdrawn at a second time, t.sub.ASW2, and the difference in time for serially sampling consecutive samples, t.sub.ASW2 -t.sub.ASW1, is not more than about 20 seconds. 