A cylindrical carriage sputtering system for disk, wafer, and flat panel substrates (20) comprising a cylindrical shaped vacuum sealed passageway formed by two concentric inner (11) and outer hollow cylinders (12), along with a top and a bottom sealing flange (13, 14). A central hollow cylinder (15), disposed between the inner (11) and outer cylinder (12), includes substrate-carrying openings and serves as a cylindrical carriage which substantially fills the sealed passageway and is rotatable in predetermined steps. Novel substrate processing devices (16) for deposition, heating, and cooling are attached around the circumference of the inner and outer cylindrical walls. Vacuum pumps are located between substrate processing devices (16). The openings in the cylindrical carriage are each fitted with thermally isolated substrate holders (19) for supporting a multiplicity of substrates (20). Unique entrance and exit vacuum load-locks with integrated robotic means are provided for transferring disk substrates (20) into and out of the system. The sputtering system is designed to allow the processing of substrates (20) at temperatures of up to about 1000.degree. C. on either stationary or pass-through sputtering modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system for depositing one or more layers of material on substrates, comprising: means forming a cylindrically shaped sealed passageway and including inner and outer concentric hollow cylindrical walls joined together by top and bottom annular sealing flanges, said walls including one or more openings for accommodating one or more processing stations and one or more openings for accommodating one or more pumping stations; a cylindrical carriage for supporting and moving substrates and formed by a third concentric central hollow cylinder, said cylindrical carriage substantially filling a volume of said cylindrically shaped sealed passageway, and said cylindrical carriage comprising one or more openings provided with substrate holders for supporting one or more substrates; mechanical and electrical rotation means providing controlled positioning of said cylindrical carriage relative to said inner and outer walls at selected locations around a circumference of said cylindrically shaped sealed passageway; one or more processing stations disposed at various ones of said wall openings and equipped with devices selected from the group consisting of layer deposition means, substrate heating means, and substrate cooling means; one or more pumping stations disposed at various other ones of said wall openings and equipped with vacuum pumps for evacuating atmospheric gases and other process gases from said sealed passageway; vacuum load-lock means and robotic means for loading and unloading said substrates to and from said cylindrical carriage through one or more of said wall openings; and electrical power supply means for operating said rotation means, said processing stations, said pumping stations, said load lock means, and said robotic means. 2. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein said openings in said inner and outer cylindrical walls are equally spaced around the circumference thereof. 3. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein said cylindrical carriage openings are equally spaced around the circumference thereof. 4. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein said substrate holders are adapted to support a multiplicity of said substrates disposed vertically one above the other. 5. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 4 wherein said substrate holders are adapted to carry four vertically positioned substrates disposed one above the other. 6. A cylindrical sputtering system as recited in claim 4 wherein said substrate holders include a set of four independently adjustable frames, each said frame having a circular opening formed therein and including a slotted support for holding a circular substrate. 7. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 4 wherein said substrate holders include a frame having at least two separable parts for receipt of said substrates, said substrates being held by at least three notched support fingers. 8. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 4 wherein said substrate holders include a frame having at least two separable parts for receipt of said substrates, said substrates being held by at least three knife edge fingers adapted to fit into a "V" groove in an outside edge of said substrates. 9. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein said rotation means includes a large circular bearing supporting said cylindrical carriage and a large gear affixed to said carriage and engaged by at least one mating pinion driven by at least one servo motor. 10. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said processing station includes layer deposition means inoperable in a carriage stationary mode and comprising a circular planar magnetron with magnetic structure defining dual concentric sputtering grooves wherein the inner groove is shallower than the outer groove, whereby a layer of material deposited thereby on a substrate is substantially uniform over a surface of said substrate. 11. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said processing station includes layer deposition operable means in a carriage passthrough mode and comprising a cylindrical rotary magnetron including a narrow "line source" magnetic structure for coating planar substrates. 12. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said processing station includes substrate heating means including one or more movable heating devices, said heating devices providing isolated local heating of one or more of said substrates. 13. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 12 wherein said substrate heating device comprises: a cylindrically shaped heat-reflecting shield having a cross-sectional shape substantially similar to a substrate to be heated; a heating source mounted within said heat-reflecting shield; translation means for moving said heat-reflecting shield and said heating source toward and away from said substrate; cooling means for cooling said heat-reflecting shield during operation of said heating device; and electrical means to power said heating source. 14. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 13 wherein said heating source includes at least one quartz lamp. 15. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 13 wherein said cooling means includes tubing attached to said heat-reflecting shield and chilled fluid circulating through said tubing. 16. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 13 wherein said heat-reflecting shield is comprised of a first metal having good heat-conducting properties, covered with a thin layer of a second metal having good heat-reflecting properties. 17. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 16 wherein said heat-reflecting shield is comprised of copper metal plated with a thin layer of gold. 18. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said processing station includes substrate cooling means having one or more movable cooling devices, said cooling devices providing locally high pressure cooling gas over one or more substrates supported by said holders. 19. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 18 wherein said cooling device comprises: circular cooling platens having substantially the same shape as a substrate to be cooled; and including orifices formed inside of said platens facing said substrate; means forming passageways for supplying cooling gas to said orifices; and translation means for moving said platens toward and away from said substrate. 20. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 19 wherein said cooling platens include a raised annular ring formed around an edge thereof forming a shallow recessed volume of space between said platen and said substrate. 21. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 20 wherein said edge of said raised ring on said platen is placed within approximately 0.010 inches from the surface of said substrate, and a helium gas at a pressure of about 20 torr is dispensed into said recessed volume between said platen and said substrate. 22. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein one or more of said processing stations is further equipped with a color difference optical monitoring and controlling device. 23. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 10 wherein color difference quantities monitored by said monitoring and controlling device, are defined with respect to wavelength-restricting filters, and wherein said filters are blue (B), green (G), and red (R). 24. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 further including means providing a flow of sputtering gas from said processing stations to said pumping stations, wherein said sputtering gas is controlled by variable orifice rotatable valves. 25. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said vacuum pump includes a turbomolecular pump. 26. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said vacuum pump includes a cryogenic pump. 27. A cylindrical carriage sputtering system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one said pumping station includes a mechanical roughing pump, a roots blower pump, and a cryogenic pump attached to said vacuum load-lock means. 28. A coating system for coating one or more substrates, comprising: an inner hollow cylinder; an outer hollow cylinder disposed concentric with said inner hollow cylinder and cooperating therewith to define a cylindrical chamber; and a central hollow cylinder fitted between, and rotatable within said cylindrical chamber relative to said inner and outer hollow cylinders, said central hollow cylinder having receptacle means provided therein for receiving one or more substrates to be coated; at least one of said inner and said outer hollow cylinders including an input station through which said one or more substrates may be loaded into said coating system; an output station through which said substrates may be unloaded out of said coating system; and one or more coating stations for coating said substrates. 29. A coating system for coating one or more substrates, comprising: an inner hollow cylinder; an outer hollow cylinder disposed concentric with said inner hollow cylinder; a top annular member connecting upper extremities of said inner and said outer hollow cylinders; a bottom annular member connecting lower extremities of said inner and said outer hollow cylinders, said inner hollow cylinder, said outer hollow cylinder, said top annular member, said bottom annular member defining a sealed chamber; a central hollow cylinder disposed within said chamber and fitted between, and rotatable relative to, said inner and said outer hollow cylinders, said central hollow cylinder including one or more receptacles for holding said substrates; said inner and said outer hollow cylinders including an input station through which said one or more substrates may be loaded into said coating system; an output station through which said one or more substrates may be unloaded out of said coating system; one or more coating stations for coating said substrates; and one or more pumping stations for evacuating said chamber. 30. A coating system as recited in claim 29, wherein: said top and said bottom annular members are sealing flanges; said central cylinder substantially fills said chamber; and said inner and said outer hollow cylinders include one or more heating stations for heating substrates carried by said central hollow cylinder and one or more cooling stations for cooling substrates carried by said central hollow cylinder. 31. A coating system as recited in claim 30, wherein; said input station includes a vacuum load-lock; and said output station includes a vacuum exit-lock. 32. A coating system as recited in claim 31, wherein said one or more coating stations include a planar magnetron and a sputtering target. 33. A coating system as recited in claim 31, and further comprising: first robotic means for transferring a plurality of substrates from cassettes carried by a conveyor means to said load-lock and for transferring a plurality of coated substrates from said vacuum exit-lock. 34. A coating station as recited in claim 33, wherein said input station further includes means forming a first transfer chamber having said load-lock disposed on one side thereof and first disk holder means disposed on another side thereof and associated with a first cylinder opening, and second robotic means disposed within said first transfer chamber and operative to transfer substrates from said load-lock to said first disk holder means. 35. A coating station as recited in claim 34, and further comprising: a first walking mechanism for facilitating the transfer of substrates from said first holder means through said cylinder opening to said receptacles in said central hollow cylinder. 36. A coating system as recited in claim 35 and further comprising: third robotic means inside said inner hollow cylinder opposite said first disk holder means and operative to cooperate with said first walking mechanism in the transfer of substrates from said first disk holder means to said receptacles. 37. A coating system as recited in claim 36 and further comprising: fifth robotic means disposed inside said inner hollow cylinder opposite said second disk holder means, and operative to cooperate with said first walking mechanism in the transfer of substrates from said receptacles to said second disk holder means. 38. A coating system as recited in claim 35 wherein said output station further includes, means forming a second transfer chamber having said exit-lock on one side thereof and second disk holder means disposed on another side thereof and associated with a second cylinder opening, and fourth robotic means disposed within said second transfer chamber and operative to transfer substrates from said second disk holder means to said exit-lock, said first robotic means being further operative to transfer substrates from said exit-lock to cassettes carried by the conveyor system. 39. A coating system as recited in claim 38 and further comprising: a second walking mechanism for facilitating the transfer of substrates from said receptacles in said central cylinder to said second disk holder means. 40. A coating system as recited in claim 39 and further comprising: fifth robotic means disposed on the inside of said inner hollow cylinder opposite said second disk holder means and operative to cooperate with said second walking mechanism in the transfer of substrates from said receptacles to said second disk holder means. 41. A coating system as recited in claim 33 wherein said conveyor means transports a plurality of substrate carriers in a side-by-side serial sequence and wherein said load-lock includes a plurality of substrate holders disposed in a vertically stacked configuration, and wherein said first robotic means includes an end effector having a plurality of mandrels jointly rotatable between a horizontal relative disposition for simultaneously engaging substrates contained in a plurality of adjacent carriers on said conveyor means, and a vertical relative disposition for inserting the engaged substrates into said vertically stacked load-lock substrate holders. 42. A coating system as recited in claim 41 wherein said end effector includes means for individually rotating each said mandrel about its longitudinal axis as said plurality of mandrels is jointly rotated so that substrates carried by said mandrels maintain a constant attitude as they are transported from carrier to load-lock. 