A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim includes a robot having at least one articulated joint and a wrist. The robot is moveable with at least three degrees of freedom along a selectable one of a plurality of programmable predetermined paths. A central processing unit selectively executes any one of the plurality of paths stored in memory. A bead mounting tool is attachable to the wrist of the robot for movement along the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths of the robot. The tool is orientatable with at least three degrees of freedom independent of the selected one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths. A workpiece support positions the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the robot and positions the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. A signal is generated and sent to the robot corresponding to a size of the rim and tire combination to be assembled. The central processing unit selects one of the plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size combination. The robot includes one or more sensors for measuring load on the articulated joint and wrist during a tire mounting cycle. The control program includes a sensor monitoring function for stopping movement of the tool in response to a load greater than a predetermined value. A clamp member prevents rotation of the tire with respect to the rim as the tool works a bead of the tire over the rim
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined paths; means for generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; means for selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to the size of the rim and tire in response to the electrical signal; and a clamp member for preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a workpiece support for positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and for positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim. 3. A tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the apparatus comprising: a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined paths; means for generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; means for selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to the size of the rim and tire in response to the electrical signal; and the bead mounting tool moveable around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim and moveable around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising: the first predetermined path moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the periphery of the rim and the second predetermined path moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 5. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: orientating a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined paths; generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size in response to the electrical signal; and preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim with a tire-engaging clamp, as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of: positioning the rim in a predetermined location with respect to the tool and positioning the tire in a predetermined orientation with respect to the rim on a workpiece support. 7. A method for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the method comprising the steps of: orientating a bead mounting tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined paths; generating an electrical signal corresponding to a size of the rim and tire; selectively controlling movement of the tool along one of the plurality of programmable predetermined paths corresponding to the rim and tire size in response to the electrical signal; moving the bead mounting tool around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim; and moving the bead mounting tool around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising the steps of: moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the entire periphery of the rim along the first predetermined path; and moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction along the second predetermined path in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 9. In a tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the improvement comprising: a bead-mounting tool having a rim engaging portion and a tire engaging portion for forcing the bead of the tire over the rim in response to controlled movement of the tool with respect to the rim and tire, the tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted; means for electrically controlling movement of the tool and for electrically selecting one of the plurality of predetermined paths in response to the size of the rim and tire to be mounted; and means for preventing rotation of the tire with respect to the rim with a tire-engaging clamp, as the bead mounting tool works a bead of the tire over the rim. 10. In a tire mounting apparatus for mounting a flexible tire on a rim, the improvement comprising: a bead-mounting tool having a rim engaging portion and a tire engaging portion for forcing the bead of the tire over the rim in response to controlled movement of the tool with respect to the rim and tire, the tool moveable along a plurality of predetermined paths corresponding to a size of the rim and tire to be mounted; means for electrically controlling movement of the tool and for electrically selecting one of the plurality of predetermined paths in response to the size of the rim and tire to be mounted; moving means for moving the bead mounting tool around an entire periphery of the rim along a first predetermined path to seat a first bead of the tire on the rim; and the moving means for moving the bead mounting tool around the entire periphery of the rim along a second predetermined path to seat a second bead of the tire on the rim. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: the moving means for moving the bead mounting tool in a first rotational direction around the entire periphery of the rim along the first predetermined path; and the moving means for moving the bead mounting tool in a second rotational direction along the second predetermined path in an opposite rotational direction from the first predetermined path. 