A semi-automated machine and method for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a singulation station having a sliding surface that assists an operator in singulating needles and depositing them in a pair of drop locations for subsequent automatic handling. Indexing conveyors, an articulated robot and a precision conveyor are used with a precise positioning station for orienting each needle for automatic handling. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A suture feeding and cutting station automatically cuts an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length suture strand and automatically inserts an end of the definite length suture strand into the suture receiving opening formed in the needle. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. A suture pull-test station test each needle suture bond, and selectively and destructively tests the bond for adjusting the swage dies and for statistical quality control. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said method comprising: (a) singulating a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said method step including the step of manually sliding individual surgical needles on a surface from said plurality to a drop opening for transfer to an indexing conveyor; (b) robotically transferring said surgical needles from said indexing conveyor to a precise positioning apparatus, and then orienting each surgical needle in a precise position for subsequent automatic handling at a first predetermined location; (c) receiving each precisely positioned surgical needle at said first predetermined location with a universal gripper and then indexing each of said surgical needles in said predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive predetermined locations for subsequent sequential processing; (d) automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length at a suture cutting station and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle; (e) automatically swaging said surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly; (f) collecting individual needle and suture assemblies from said universal gripper and then forming them into bundles for subsequent packaging; whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a bundle of needle and suture assemblies. 2. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of receiving each precisely positioned surgical needle with a universal gripper includes advancing the universal gripper with a compound movement from a first retracted position to a second extended position to receive and release each precisely positioned surgical needle. 3. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of singulating a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles includes the step sliding said needles on a sliding surface to said drop opening and depositing each of said singulated needles upon said indexing conveyor means in a spaced apart relation. 4. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 3 which further includes the step of positioning said insert drop opening above a transfer surface adjacent said indexing conveyor and automatically transferring said individual surgical needles to said indexing conveyor. 5. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 1 which further includes the step of heating a selected portion of the indefinite length of suture material to subsequently form a tip for the definite length of suture material. 6. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 5 wherein said heating step further includes the step of tensioning said indefinite length of suture material as it is heated. 7. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 5 which further includes the step of adjustably positioning a heating means on a moveable carrier remote from said cutting station. 8. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 5 which further includes the step of allowing the selected portion of the indefinite length suture to cool to allow for partial hardening and stiffening of said suture prior to cutting thereof. 9. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 8 which further includes the step of cutting said stiffened selected portion of the indefinite length suture strand remote from said heating step to create a tipped suture strand of definite length supported by a first gripping means and a suture strand of indefinite length supported by a second gripping means, with stiffened portions above each gripping means. 10. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 1 wherein said collecting step further includes the step of receiving said needle and suture assemblies in a plurality of buckets. 11. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 10 which further includes the step of stripping said needle suture assembly from said universal gripper while incrementally rotating a plurality of buckets below the stripping point to form said bundle of needle suture assemblies. 12. A method of attaching a suture to a surgical needle as claimed in claim 11 which further includes the step of rotating said universal gripper means into a confronting relationship with said a stripping means, whereby said universal gripper means deposits an individual oriented needle and suture assembly into a predetermined one of said buckets. 