An interactive multi-station medical specimen analysis system for simultaneously analyzing a medical specimen at remote locations and accessing, for evaluation, the results of each of the analyses at a central laboratory is disclosed. A central laboratory, interacts with remote computers, through a server to review, evaluate and accept or reject specimen analyses. The server communicates with the plurality of remote computers, laboratory computer and a centralized computer via a network. Analytical instruments which are not equipped to communicate with a computer are connected through computer interface software which interprets the instrument language into the computer program language and the computer program language into the instrument language. The interactive system requests analytical tests, transmits the test results to the server databases and receives and displays data from the server databases. Laboratory based interactive software acquires and either displays test results from the server databases, reviews and accepts or rejects the test results and transmits the acceptance or rejection to the server databases.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive multi-station specimen analysis system for simultaneously analyzing a specimen at least one remote location and accessing the results of each of the analyses at a central laboratory, said system comprising: a. a server where the server allows the retrieval and storage of data residing on databases within the server; b. a plurality of analytical instruments each interacting with a remote computer at each remote location, where the remote computer activates and interacts with each analytical instrument and serves as an interface between the analytical instrument and the server; c. a laboratory computer where the laboratory computer interacts with the remote computer through the server in order to review, evaluate and accept or reject specimen analyses, wherein a network interconnects the server, each remote computer, the laboratory computer and a centralized computer; d. an analytical instrument to remote computer interface to interpret the instrument language into the computer program language and the computer program language into the instrument language; e. a remote computer interactive means for requesting and transmitting data from and to the server databases, and receiving and displaying data from the server databases; and f. a laboratory computer interactive means for acquiring and displaying data from the server databases and upon receipt, reviewing the data received from the server databases for acceptance or rejection. 2. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 where the data residing on databases within the server includes patient demographics and analyses results. 3. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 where the data requested and transmitted by the remote computer interactive means includes analytical tests and test results. 4. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 where the data acquired and displayed by the laboratory computer interactive means includes test results and the laboratory computer interactive means transmits the acceptance or rejection of the test results to the server databases. 5. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 where each of the plurality of analytical instruments interact with a dedicated remote computer, where the dedicated remote computer activates and interacts with each analytical instrument and serves as an interface between the analytical instrument and said server. 6. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 wherein at least one database residing in the server temporarily stores files which comprise information requested and transmitted between the laboratory computer, the plurality of remote computers, and the centralized computer. 7. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the remote computer interactive means includes a sequence to initialize the interaction between a user and the analysis instrument. 8. An interactive system as claimed in claim 7 wherein the remote computer interactive means displays an initialization screen on an output arrangement which enables the user to commence the sample analysis sequence. 9. An interactive system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a monitoring station, said monitoring station accessing said databases in a viewing mode without database input capabilities. 