Systems and methods for manufacturing and inspecting documents having information recorded thereon include a visual inspection cell, a recording unit, and a packaging unit. The manufactured documents can include driver's licenses, credit cards, military identification cards, welfare cards, social security cards, and other such cards having information recorded thereon suitable for identifying persons or objects. In an optional embodiment of the invention, the manufactured documents include a laminated overlay that includes a holographic overlay as a security feature and the visual inspection cell includes a lighting unit and camera adapted to illuminate and image the recorded data positioned behind the hologram.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for manufacturing a series of data cards, comprising production means for recording information onto one or more blank cards, said production means having a memory element separate from said data cards for storing a plurality of different data record signals each data record signal being associated with a respective one of said data cards and each having image information representative of one of a plurality of different images, recording means for recording image information from said data records on to respective ones of said blank cards, and inspection means, coupled to said production means, for visually inspecting said data cards, and having an image acquisition element for generating an image signal representative of said image information recorded on each said data card, and image processing means for comparing said generated image signal with said respective data record signal and for generating a comparison signal representative of the accuracy of the recorded image relative to said data record signal. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said inspection means includes means for disposing said data cards in a support element after recording for the purpose of visual inspection. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said production means includes means for recording onto said blank cards an identification signal representative of one of said data record signals. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said means for recording an identification signal includes a barcode recording element. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said inspection means includes means for decoding an identification signal recorded onto said data cards. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said means for decoding includes a barcode reader element arranged for optically reading a barcode signal representative of said identification signal. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said blank cards include a magnetic stripe and wherein each said data record signal includes an identification signal for identifying said data record signals, said recording means includes a unit for recording onto each said blank card a signal representative of said identification signal, and said inspection means includes a magnetic strip reader unit for reading said identification signal on each said data card and for retrieving said data record signal as a function of said identification signal. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said recording means includes means for recording image information on both sides of said data card, and said inspection means includes a camera element for generating said image signal representative of image information recorded on both sides of said data card. 9. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said inspection means includes a lighting unit for illuminating said data card with a selected intensity of light. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said lighting unit includes a polarized light source for illuminating said data card with light of a selected polarization. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1 comprising packaging means, coupled to said inspection means, for disposing each said data card in a respective carrier element and for printing information from said data record signal onto said carrier element. 12. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said image processing means include a processor element having an operating program for spatially filtering said image signal to have a select aspect ratio. 13. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said image acquisition element includes an adjustable lens for generating image signals having a select pixel density. 14. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said image processing means includes a processor element having an operating program for generating a pixel density signal of an image region, and for comparing pixel density signals of said image signal and sad data record signal. 15. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said image acquisition element generates color image signals representative of color images, and said image processing means includes a program element for comparing said color image signals with said data record signal. 16. Apparatus for manufacturing identification cards from collected data, comprising database memory element separate from said identification cards and arranged for storing one or more data record signals each representative of different information, to be recorded onto a blank card, job builder means for generating a batch signal representative of instructions to generate said identification cards from said stored data record signals, recording means for recording different data record signals onto individual ones of said blank cards responsive to said batch signal, inspection means, coupled to a production means, for visually inspecting said identification cards, and for generating a failed to manufacture signal as a function of a comparison between said recorded information and said data record signal, and packaging means for disposing said identification cards into carrier elements and for printing information onto each said carrier element from said data record as a function of said failed to manufacture signal. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said data record signal includes an identification signal, and said recording unit includes means for recording a signal onto each said blank card representative of said identification signal. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said inspection means includes decoding means for decoding a signal recorded onto each said data card and representative of said identification signal. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said inspection means includes interface means for collecting from said job builder means said data record signal that corresponds to said identification signal recorded on said identification card being inspected. 20. Method for manufacturing a series of data cards, comprising the steps of storing one or more data record signals each having image information representative of one or more images and information representative of an identification signal that associates one of said data record signals with one of said data cards, recording said image information and identification signals from said data record signals on to respective ones of blank cards, generating an image signal representative of said image information recorded on each said data card, decoding said identification signal recorded onto one of said data cards for comparing said generated image signal with said respective data record signal, and generating a comparison signal representative of the accuracy of the recorded image relative to said data record signal. 21. Apparatus of claim 9 wherein said selected intensity of light is responsive to the ambient light incident on the data card. 22. Apparatus of claim 9 wherein said lighting unit includes a light sensing element and said selected intensity of light is responsive to said light sensing element. 23. Apparatus of claim 9 wherein said lighting unit includes a uniform light source. 24. Apparatus of claim 9 wherein said lighting unit further comprises a cabinet disposed to control ambient light incident on the data card. 25. Apparatus of claim 9 wherein said lighting unit includes a point light source disposed to illuminate a selected point on the data card. 26. Apparatus of claim 23 wherein said uniform light source is disposed to illuminate said data card from an angle between ten degrees and fifteen degrees. 27. Apparatus of claim 10 wherein said polarization light source is disposed to illuminate the data card at an angle selected to minimize the response due to an overlay formed on the card. 28. Apparatus of claim 10 wherein said polarization light source is disposed to illuminate the data card at an angle selected to maximize the response due to an overlay formed on the card. 