A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process of operating a microprocessor comprising: A. starting the microprocessor by receiving power in the microprocessor; B. initially setting a first number, defining a number of wait states, in a first register by loading data signals representing the first number into the first register from a data bus that extends to an external device; C. initially setting a second number, defining a number of wait states, in a second register by loading data signals representing the second number into the second register from the data bus; D. changing one of the first and second numbers to a third number by executing a software instruction to load data signals representing the third number into one of the first and second registers from the data bus; and E. using the number in one of the registers to insert that number of wait states between addressing the external device and receiving data from the external device. 2. The process of claim 1 changing the other of the first and second numbers to a fourth number by executing a software instruction. 3. The process of claim 1 in which the initially setting to a first number and the initially setting to a second number include setting to a maximum number of memory wait states. 4. The process of claim 1 in which the initially setting and changing includes initially setting and changing binary numbers. 5. The process of claim 1 in which the initially setting and changing includes initially setting and changing binary numbers of four bits. 6. The process of claim 1 in which the initially setting includes initially setting on reset. 7. The process of claim 1 in which the changing includes executing software instructions addressing one of the registers and writing a desired number in that register. 8. The process of claim 1 in which the setting and changing includes setting and changing binary numbers of from zero to fifteen. 9. The process of claim 1 in which the setting and changing includes setting and changing binary numbers of four binary bits. 