A dispensing apparatus is disclosed which includes a support assembly for defining at least one dispensing location. A storage container is secured to the support assembly for holding a plurality of stackable objects. These stackable objects may include shims, washers, gaskets and seals. An escapement is operably associated with the support assembly. The escapement is operable for moving between a first position and a second position for transporting at least one of the stackable objects from the storage container to an external access location. The escapement may also be designed to be easily operated by a robot or robot actuated apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dispensing apparatus having a plurality of dispensing locations comprising: an independent actuator having a gripping tool for actuating the dispensing apparatus; a first row of dispensing locations and a second row of dispensing locations, each of the first and second rows of dispensing locations including an upper support plate and a lower support plate defining a plurality of horizontally disposed dispensing locations; a bracket disposed between and connecting the first and second rows of dispensing locations, wherein the first row of dispensing locations is positioned above and offset from the second row of dispensing locations; a storage container secured to the upper support plate at each dispensing location, the storage container for containing a plurality of stackable objects to be dispensed at the dispensing locations; and an escapement associated with each storage container, each escapement being disposed between the upper support plate and the lower support plate and being moveable by the independent actuator between a first position and a second position for transporting at least one of the stackable objects from the storage container to an external access location, wherein the independent actuator can utilize the gripping tool for removing a stackable object from the escapement. 2. The dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the escapement includes a recess sized for supporting at least one of the stackable objects. 3. The dispensing apparatus of claim 2 wherein the recess is disposed directly beneath the storage container when the escapement is positioned in the second position, and whereby the stackable object located at a bottom portion of the storage container is guided into the recess when the escapement is positioned in the second position. 4. The dispensing apparatus of claim 2, wherein the recess is an arcuate recess. 5. The dispensing apparatus of claim 2 wherein the escapement includes a cut-out portion for exposing a forward portion of the stackable object positioned in the recess. 6. The dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the escapement includes a forwardly extending tab having an aperture formed therethrough, said tab providing a gripping area for a robotic gripping apparatus, and said aperture allowing light generated by an optical sensing system associated with said robotic gripping apparatus to pass therethrough. 7. The dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein the escapement includes a longitudinal groove for operably engaging a guiding assembly associated with the support assembly. 8. The dispensing apparatus of claim 7 wherein the longitudinal groove includes a first stopping end and a second stopping end. 9. The dispensing apparatus of claim 8 wherein the guiding assembly includes a first roller cam and a second roller cam. 10. A dispensing apparatus for use in an automated manufacturing environment comprising: a robot having a robotic gripping apparatus associated with the dispensing apparatus; a lower supporting plate; an upper supporting plate disposed parallel to the lower supporting plate, the upper and lower supporting plate being disposed on a stand assembly for positioning the dispensing apparatus in proximity to the robot; a storage container secured to the upper supporting plate for containing a plurality of stackable objects; and an escapement disposed between the upper and lower supporting plates, the escapement including a recess formed in a top surface thereof and a cutout portion for exposing a forward portion of the stackable object positioned within the recess, the escapement further including a forwardly extending tab having an aperture formed therethrough, the tab providing a gripping surface for the robotic gripping apparatus and the aperture allowing light generated by an optical sensing system associated with the robotic gripping apparatus to pass therethrough, the escapement being moveable between a first position and a second position for transporting at least one of the stackable objects from a storage container to an external access location. 11. The dispensing apparatus of claim 10, wherein the recess is sized for supporting at least one of the stackable objects therein. 12. The dispensing apparatus of claim 11 wherein the recess is disposed directly beneath the storage container when the escapement is positioned in the second position, and whereby the stackable object located at a bottom portion of the storage container is guided into the recess when the escapement is positioned in the second position. 13. The dispensing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the recess is an arcuate recess. 14. The dispensing apparatus of claim 10 wherein the escapement includes a longitudinal groove for operably engaging a guiding assembly disposed between the upper supporting plate and the lower supporting plate. 15. A robot actuated dispensing apparatus having a plurality of dispensing locations for use in an automated manufacturing environment comprising: a robot having a gripping tool; an upper supporting plate and a lower supporting plate defining the plurality of dispensing locations; a storage container secured within an annular recess formed in the upper supporting plate, said storage container for containing a plurality of stackable objects; an escapement disposed between the upper supporting plate and the lower supporting plate, the escapement being moveable between a first position and a second position for transporting at least one of the stackable objects from the storage container to an external access location wherein the robot can utilize the gripping tool for removing a stackable object from the escapement; and a guiding assembly for guiding the escapement; whereby the robot actuates the escapement for dispensing the stackable object. 16. The dispensing apparatus of claim 15 wherein the escapement includes a forwardly extending tab having an aperture formed therethrough, said tab providing a gripping area for a robotic gripping apparatus, and said aperture allowing light generated by an optical sensing system associated with said robotic gripping apparatus to pass therethrough. 17. The dispensing apparatus of claim 15 wherein the guiding assembly includes a first roller cam, a second roller cam, and a longitudinal groove formed in the escapement, wherein the roller cams operably engage the longitudinal groove. 18. The dispensing apparatus of claim 15 wherein the escapement includes a recess sized for supporting at least one of the stackable objects. 19. The dispensing apparatus of claim 18 wherein the recess is disposed directly beneath the storage container when the escapement is positioned in the second position, and whereby the stackable object located at a bottom portion of the storage container is guided into the recess when the escapement is positioned in the second position. 20. The dispensing apparatus of claim 18 wherein the recess can be adjusted for accommodating various sized stackable objects contained in the storage container. 21. The dispensing apparatus of claim 18, wherein the recess is an arcuate recess. 22. The dispensing apparatus of claim 15 wherein the stackable object is an annular shim. 23. The dispensing apparatus of claim 18 wherein the escapement includes a cut-out portion for exposing a forward portion of the stackable object positioned in the arcuate recess. 24. The robot actuated dispensing apparatus of claim 15 wherein the stackable object rests upon a top surface of the escapement and a forward portion of the escapement includes a cutout for exposing an upper surface and a lower surface of the stackable object, thereby allowing the gripping tool of the robot to remove the stackable object from the escapement. 