The present invention provides an approach which provides an increase in the number of usable substrates with a film, such as titanium nitride, deposited thereon at a sufficient deposition rate and where the film meets uniformity and resistivity specifications as well as providing good step coverage. In accordance with an embodiment, the present invention provides a method of substrate processing. The method includes steps of circulating a heat exchange medium through a passage in a chamber body of a vacuum chamber, and heating a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting the substrate to a heater temperature. The heat exchange medium has a heat exchange temperature of about 60.degree. C. or less. The method also includes the step of flowing at a flow rate a gas into the chamber to deposit a film on a substrate, where the flow rate provides an effective temperature of the substrate lower than the heater temperature and where the film meets uniformity and resistance specifications after deposition onto a number of substrates. This number is less than twenty-five, in some embodiments, and less than ten in other embodiments. The use of the present invention thus avoids the discarding of the initial hundreds of processed substrates not meeting specifications that is typically experienced with the prior art processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of substrate processing comprising the steps of: circulating a heat exchange medium through a passage in a chamber body of a vacuum chamber, said heat exchange medium having a heat exchange temperature of about 60.degree. C. or less; heating a heater pedestal having a surface for supporting said substrate to a heater temperature; flowing at a flow rate a gas into said chamber to deposit a film on a substrate, said flow rate providing an effective temperature of said substrate lower than said heater temperature, wherein said film meets uniformity and resistance specifications after deposition onto a number of substrates, said number being less than twenty-five. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said film comprises titanium nitride and said gas comprises vaporized TDMAT. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said gas further comprises hydrogen (H.sub.2) and helium. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said vaporized TDMAT includes a helium delivery gas. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said flow rate ranges from about 0.4-2 liters/minute. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said flow rate is about 0.8 liters/minute. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein said heat exchange temperature is less than about 50.degree. C. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein said heat exchange temperature is less than about 40.degree. C. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein said heater temperature is greater than about 400.degree. C. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said heater temperature is about 450.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: providing a pre-coating of said film in the vacuum chamber prior to deposition onto said number of substrates. 12. The method of claim 2 wherein said number is less than 10. 13. The method of claim 3 wherein further comprising the step of plasma treating said film by flowing nitrogen (N.sub.2) and hydrogen (H.sub.2) at about 500 sccm and applying RF energy of about 350 kHz at about 750 watts after each deposition onto said number of substrates. 