A mobile communications device comprising a location sensing system, producing a location output; a memory, storing a set of locations and associated events; a telecommunications device, communicating event and location information between a remote system and said memory; and a processor, processing said location output in conjunction with said stored locations and associated events in said memory, to determine a priority thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile device, comprising: an environmental sensor input, receiving a signal indicative of an environmental status; a position detection input, for receiving a position of said mobile device; a memory, storing a set of positions of said mobile device at which said environmental status is sensed; and a processor, producing an output of said sensed environmental statuses, in a process dependent on said stored set of positions at which said environmental status is sensed, said sensed environmental status, and said detected position of said mobile device. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said environmental sensor input receives a selectively detected electromagnetic emission. 3. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a manual input, said manual input being stored in said memory in relation to position information. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein said environmental status is selected from one or more of the group consisting of a radar band emission, an optical emission, an image, a temperature, a velocity, a traffic condition, a weather condition, a selected type of vehicle, a road condition, a hazard, and a designated location. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein said processor responds to an authorization code, said authorization code being unique for said mobile device, wherein said authorization code controls an availability of least a portion of the functions of said mobile device. 6. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a telecommunications subsystem, communicating environmental status and location information between a remote system and said memory. 7. The device according to claim 6, wherein at least one of said position detection input and said telecommunications subsystem shares radio frequency components with a cellular telephone system. 8. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem receives environmental status and position information from said remote system. 9. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem transmits environmental status and position information to said remote system. 10. The device according to claim 6, wherein a data path between said remote system and said telecommunications subsystem comprises a wired terrestrial network. 11. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem comprises a spread spectrum radio frequency communications system. 12. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem is a radio frequency communications system operating in a band selected from the 900 MHz, 2.4 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands. 13. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem is a radio frequency communications system operating in the range 50-450 MHz. 14. The device according to claim 6, wherein said memory stores an identification of an origin of stored information. 15. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem communicates a message intelligible to a human. 16. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem communicates using a protocol adaptive to one or more parameters selected from the group consisting of transmit power, data rate, data packet format, error detection scheme, error correction scheme, bandwidth allocation, modulation scheme, and encoding scheme. 17. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem transmits a signal encrypted using a public key-private key cipher. 18. The device according to claim 6, wherein said telecommunications subsystem first establishes communications with said remote system through a common control channel, and then switches to a private channel. 19. The device according to claim 6, further comprising a remote system, said remote system comprising: a second memory, storing a set of positions and associated environmental statuses; a second telecommunications subsystem, communicating event and location information with said communications subsystem between said mobile device and said second memory; and a second processor, processing said position of said mobile device in conjunction with said stored positions and associated environmental statuses stored in said second memory, to determine a priority thereof. 20. The device according to claim 1, wherein said memory is adapted to store a chronological parameter associated with a status. 21. The device according to claim 20, wherein said chronological parameter is selected from one or more of the group consisting of time of detection of event, time of expiration of event, time of logging of event to memory, periodic variations in event, statistical mean time of expected recurrence of event, and time for presentation of event related information to user. 22. The device according to claim 21, wherein said processor prioritizes a plurality of environmental statuses based on a respective proximity of a stored position to a position of said mobile device. 23. The device according to claim 1, wherein said environmental sensor input receives signals indicative of a plurality of types of environmental status, and said processor prioritizes based on a type of status. 24. The device according to claim 22, wherein said processor prioritizes based on a prospective conjunction of a position of the mobile device with a stored location. 25. The device according to claim 22, wherein said environmental sensor input receives signals indicative of a plurality of types of environmental status, and said processor prioritizes based on a type of status. 26. The device according to claim 22, wherein said processor prioritizes based on a spatial-temporal proximity of a stored position to a set of loci defined by an itinerary. 27. The device according to claim 1, wherein said position detection input receives an output from a GPS receiver. 28. The device according to claim 1, wherein said position detection input comprises an output from a geographical mapping system. 29. A mobile, comprising: means for detecting an environmental event proximate to said mobile device; means for detecting a location of said mobile device; means for storing a set of environmental event and associated detection locations; and means for producing an output of said stored environmental events, dependent on said detected location, said associated detection locations, and said environmental event. 30. A method, comprising the steps of: detecting a location of a mobile device; detecting an environmental event proximate to the mobile device; storing a set of environmental event and associated detection locations; and producing an output of the stored environmental events, dependent on the detected location, and the associated detection locations, and the stored environmental events. 31. The device according to claim 1, wherein said environmental status comprises information relating to a commercial establishment. 32. A mobile device, comprising: means for detecting an environmental event proximate to said mobile device; means for detecting a location of said mobile device; means for storing a set of environmental event and associated detection locations; and means for producing an output of said stored environmental events, dependent on said detected location and said associated detection locations. 33. The method according to claim 30, wherein said producing step outputs said sensed environmental statuses in anticipation of a proximity thereto. 34. The method according to claim 30, wherein said producing step determines an anticipated path of said mobile device and outputs said sensed environmental statuses in further dependence on said anticipated path. 35. The method according to claim 30, wherein said producing step prioritizes an output of a plurality of said sensed environmental statuses based on a respective distance from said mobile device, an anticipated path of said mobile device, and a classification of a respective environmental status. 36. The method according to claim 30, further comprising the step of limiting operation of the mobile device according to a subscription. 37. The mobile device according to claim 1, wherein said processor outputs said sensed environmental statuses in anticipation of a proximity thereto. 38. The mobile device according to claim 1, wherein said processor determines an anticipated path of said mobile device and outputs said sensed environmental statuses in further dependence on said anticipated path. 39. The mobile device according to claim 1, wherein said processor prioritizes an output of a plurality of said sensed environmental statuses based on a respective distance from said mobile device, an anticipated path of said mobile device, and a classification of a respective environmental status. 40. The mobile device according to claim 1, wherein said processor communicates environmental status and position information through a cellular radio communication system with a server. 41. The mobile device according to claim 29, wherein said producing means outputs said sensed environmental statuses in anticipation of a proximity thereto. 42. The mobile device according to claim 29, wherein said producing means determines an anticipated path of said mobile device and outputs said sensed environmental statuses in further dependence on said anticipated path. 43. The mobile device according to claim 29, wherein said producing means prioritizes an output of a plurality of said sensed environmental statuses based on a respective distance from said mobile device, an anticipated path of said mobile device, and a classification of a respective environmental status. 