Apparatus and concomitant method for performing priority based scheduling of wafer processing within a multiple chamber semiconductor wafer processing system (cluster tool). The sequencer assigns priority values to the chambers in a cluster tool, then moves wafers from chamber to chamber in accordance with the assigned priorities. The sequencer is capable of determining the amount of time available before a priority move is to be performed and, if time is sufficient, the sequencer performs a non-priority move while waiting. The sequencer also dynamically varies assigned priorities depending upon the availability of chambers in the tool. Lastly, the sequencer prioritizes the chambers based upon the minimum time required for the robot to move the wafers in a particular stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for scheduling semiconductor wafers for processing within a multiple chamber, semiconductor wafer processing system having a plurality of chambers, said method comprising: assigning a priority to each chamber in said plurality of chambers; selecting a chamber having a highest priority; moving a wafer from a selected chamber to a target chamber in accordance with the assigned priority of the selected chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein, if a plurality of chambers have the highest priority, the selecting step further comprises the step of selecting a chamber having a highest priority and having a shortest remaining process time. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: determining a time to complete (T.sub.remains) processing for the selected chamber; computing a time to perform (T.sub.meanwhile) a wafer move for at least one other chamber; dividing Tmeanwhile by T.sub.remains to produce a quotient; comparing the quotient to a threshold value; if the quotient is less than the threshold value, then move the wafer in the selected chamber; and if the quotient is greater than the threshold value, then move a wafer in the other chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of dynamically assigning priority to each chamber in response to processing times for each chamber. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of recalculating said priority after moving a wafer. 6. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of dynamically assigning priority to each chamber in response to processing times for each chamber. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of recalculating said priority after moving a wafer. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said assigning step further comprises assigning a highest priority to a chamber with a shortest time until a wafer therein is to be moved and a lowest priority to a chamber with a longest time until a wafer therein is to be moved. 9. Apparatus for scheduling semiconductor wafers for processing within a multiple chamber, semiconductor wafer processing system having a plurality of chambers, said apparatus comprising: a sequencer for assigning a priority to each chamber in said plurality of chambers and for selecting a chamber having a highest priority; and a wafer transfer robot, coupled to said sequencer, for moving a wafer from a selected chamber to a target chamber in accordance with the assigned priority of the selected chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein, if a plurality of chambers have the highest priority, the sequencer selects a chamber having a highest priority and having a shortest remaining process time. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the sequencer further comprises: means for determining a time to complete (T.sub.remains) processing for the selected chamber; means for computing a time to perform (T.sub.meanwhile) a wafer move for at least one other chamber; means for dividing T.sub.meanwhile by T.sub.remains to produce a quotient; means for comparing the quotient to a threshold value; where, if the quotient is less than the threshold value, then the wafer transfer robot moves the wafer in the selected chamber; and if the quotient is greater than the threshold value, then the wafer transfer robot moves a wafer in the other chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the sequencer further comprises means for dynamically assigning priority to each chamber in response to processing times for each chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the sequencer further comprises means for recalculating said priority after moving a wafer. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the sequencer further comprises means for dynamically assigning priority to each chamber in response to processing times for each chamber. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the sequencer further comprises means for recalculating said priority after moving a wafer. 16. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said sequencer further comprises means for assigning a highest priority to a chamber with a shortest time until wafer therein is to be moved and a lowest priority to a chamber with a longest time until a wafer therein is to be moved. 17. A data structure stored in a computer memory, where said data structure is used by a sequencer to define a trajectory of one or more wafers through a cluster tool, comprising at least one field defining a priority of a chamber within said cluster tool. 18. The data structure of claim 17 further comprising a plurality of fields defining each stage of a trajectory. 