The invention provides a hot plate oven suitable to bake materials on substrates such as flat panel displays and large semiconductor wafers such as 300 mm in diameter and above. The hot plate oven in one embodiment includes an insulated chamber, a heater in the chamber, a door for entry of a substrate, a frame, preferably water cooled, for suspending the substrate above the heater, a substrate lowering mechanism to hold the frame and lower the substrate to a certain height above the heater at least one fluid cooled pin to counteract sag when the substrate is heated, and a set of manifolds and valves to feed and exhaust gases, vapors, and apply a vacuum to the chamber. In another feature, the oven assembly includes a stack of low profile ovens, each having a door on the side for entry of a substrate.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An oven for baking a substrate, comprising: a chamber with a door to provide access into the chamber; a heater in the chamber; projections in the chamber to support the substrate; a mechanism to move the projections closer to the heater so that the spacing between the substrate and heater is reduced; and a fluid cooled pin disposed to support the substrate when the spacing is reduced. 2. The oven of claim 1, wherein the projections and the fluid cooled pin define a horizontal plane for supporting the substrate. 3. The oven of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for moving the projections closer to the heater reduces the spacing between the substrate and the heater by lowering the projections toward the heater disposed below the projections, and the fluid cooled pin protrudes above the heater. 4. The oven of claim 1, wherein the chamber and door have a low profile and the door is located on the side of the chamber. 5. An oven for baking a substrate, comprising: a chamber with a door to provide access into the chamber; a heater in the chamber; a frame in the chamber to support the substrate along the edges of the substrate; a mechanism to move the frame closer to the heater so that the spacing between the substrate and heater is reduced; and a fluid cooled pin disposed to support the substrate when the spacing is reduced. 6. The oven of claim 1, wherein the frame includes a cooling tube attached to the frame to provide fluid cooling the frame. 7. The oven of claim 5, wherein the frame and the fluid cooled pin define a horizontal plane for supporting the substrate. 8. The oven of claim 5, wherein the mechanism for moving the frame closer to the heater reduces the spacing between the substrate and the heater by lowering the frame toward the heater disposed below the frame, and the fluid cooled pin protrudes above the heater. 9. The oven of claim 5, wherein the chamber and door have a low profile and the door is located on the side of the chamber. 10. An oven for baking a substrate, comprising: a chamber with a door to provide access into the chamber; a heater in the chamber; means, in the chamber, for supporting the substrate; means for moving the supporting means closer to the heater so that the spacing between the substrate and heater is reduced; and a fluid cooled pin disposed to support the substrate when the spacing is reduced. 11. The oven of claim 10, wherein the means for supporting the substrate include means for providing cooling fluid to the means for supporting the substrate. 