A wafer polisher head drive includes a head drive housing; a head portion extending from the housing for mounting an unpolished wafer when the head drive housing and head portion are in a horizontal orientation; a pivot mechanism extending from the head drive housing for pivoting the head drive housing and the head portion from the horizontal orientation to a vertical orientation juxtaposed to a transverse vertical portion of a continuous rotating polishing belt; a drive in the housing for moving the head portion and a mounted wafer outwardly from the housing against the transverse vertical portion of the rotating polishing belt; and a drive in the housing for rotating the head portion and the mounted wafer. The head drive housing may be pivoted from the vertical orientation in a sweeping arc extending perpendicularly from the belt transverse vertical portion or in a swinging arc extending parallel from the belt transverse vertical portion. The pivot mechanism includes a hollow shaft connected to said head drive housing; and a motor, gearbox and a ball screw and nut assembly in driving connection between the gearbox and the hollow shaft for transversing in a direction parallel to the belt.
Claims We claim: 1. A wafer polisher head drive for pressing a wafer against a continuous rotating polishing belt comprising: a head drive housing; a head portion extending from the housing for mounting an unpolished wafer when the head drive housing and head portion are in a horizontal orientation; a pivot mechanism extending from the head drive housing for pivoting the head drive housing and head portion from the horizontal orientation to a vertical orientation juxtaposed to a transverse vertical portion of said polishing belt, wherein said polishing belt is in a vertical position; and a drive in the housing for rotating the head portion and the mounted wafer while pressing the mounted wafer against the transverse vertical portion of the polishing belt. 2. The head drive of claim 1 wherein said head drive housing is pivoted from the vertical orientation in a sweeping arc extending in a plane perpendicular to the plane of the head drive housing in said vertical orientation. 3. The head drive of claim 2 wherein said pivot mechanism includes a hollow shaft connected to said head drive housing; a gearbox connected to said head drive housing; and a ball screw and nut assembly positioned in driving connection between said gearbox and said hollow shaft for sweeping said head drive housing back and forth in a in a plane parallel to the plane of the head drive housing in said vertical orientation. 4. The head drive of claim 3 further comprising a lock pin insertable into an apertured plate attached to said head drive housing for stabilizing said head drive housing in the vertical orientation during polishing of the mounted wafer. 5. The head drive of claim 1 further including a pneumatic cylinder having a piston rod having an outer distal end linked to said head drive housing to actuate the head drive housing between the vertical orientation and the horizontal orientation. 6. The head drive of claim 1 wherein said head drive housing is pivoted from the vertical orientation in a swing arc extending in the plane of the head drive housing in said vertical orientation. 7. The head drive of claim 6 including a motor and gearbox, said motor and gearbox driving said pivot mechanism for laterally pivoting said head drive housing; and further including a tiltable arm extending between said gearbox and said head drive housing, said tiltable arm, when pivoted from a vertical orientation, being tiltable to place the head portion in an orientation for unloading of a polished wafer and subsequent loading of an unpolished wafer. 8. The head drive of claim 7 further including a gearbox housing; a drive shaft extending from the gearbox housing; a clevis connected to the drive shaft and pivotable with the drive shaft and having a pivot pin connecting said tiltable arm to said head drive housing; and a pneumatic cylinder having a piston distal end connected to said tiltable arm for tilting the tiltable arm about said pivot pin to move said head portion to the unloading orientation. 9. The head drive of claim 1 further including a rotary union extending between said head drive housing and said head portion. 10. The head drive of claim 1 wherein said pivot mechanism includes a hollow shaft and a drive in-line with said shaft for sweeping said head drive housing and a mounted wafer back and forth in the plane of the head drive housing when in a vertical orientation. 