The invention relates to a simple, cost effective method for immobilizing synthetic nucleic acid molecules onto a solid support. The invention further concerns the use of such immobilized molecules in nucleic acid hybridization assays, sequencing by hybridization assays, and genetic analyses and combinatorial analyses involving nucleic acids or proteins for screening applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for immobilizing an unmodified nucleic acid molecule to a glass or plastic solid phase, which comprises the steps of: (A) coating said solid phase with a mercapto-silane or an epoxy-silane and allowing said silane-coated solid phase to cure; and (B) coupling said unmodified nucleic acid molecule having either a terminal 3' OH or a terminal 5' OH to said silane-coated solid phase. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein in step A, said coating occurs in the presence of an acidic buffer of aqueous ethanol for 30 minutes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein in step A, said silane is selected from the group consisting of mercapto-alkyl-trimethoxysilane and glycidoxyalkyl-silane. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein in step A, said silane is 3-mercaptopropyl-trimethoxysilane. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein in step A, said curing occurs for at least 12 hours in the presence of a dry inert gas consisting of Ar or N.sub.2. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein in step B, said covalent linkage is a covalent thioether linkage. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein in step A, said silane is 3-glycidoxy trimethoxypropyl silane. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein in step A, said curing occurs at a temperature of from 60.degree. C. to 70.degree. C. for 10-14 hours. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein in step B, said covalent linkage is a covalent ether linkage. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein in step B, said coupling occurs in alkaline solution. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein in step B, said alkaline solution comprises from 0.0001M to 5M NaOH. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein in step B, said alkaline solution comprises NaOH, KOH, and LiOH. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein in step B, said nucleic acid molecules comprise oligonucleotides. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said oligonucleotides have a concentration of from 1.0 to 10 .mu.M. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein in step B, said covalent linkage is selected from the group consisting of covalent ether and thioether linkages. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid phase is glass. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said glass is a microscope slide. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid-phase is plastic. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said plastic is polystyrene plastic. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said polystyrene support is a microwell plate. 21. Ache method of claim 19, wherein said polystyrene support is an array designed to fit into a microwell plate. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid-phase is selected from the group consisting of a bead, a plate, a column, a pin and a dipstick. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the coupling reaction creates an array of immobilized nucleic acid molecules. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein said immobilized nucleic acid is a polynucleotide and wherein said method optionally further comprises the steps of: (C) capturing from a solution at least one strand of a specific polynucleotide analyte by hybridization to said immobilized polynucleotide; and (D) detecting the presence of the captured analyte. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein step C further comprises the steps of: (C'(1)) amplifying a specific region of a specific genome using a polymerase chain reaction, said region having a sequence complementary to said immobilized polynucleotide; and (C'(2)) capturing from solution at least one strand of said amplification product by hybridization to said immobilized polynucleotide; and wherein step D further comprises the step of (D') detecting the presence of the captured amplification product. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said method optionally further comprises the steps of: (E) incubating a sample of nucleic acid of a target organism, containing a single nucleotide polymorphism in the presence of said immobilized polynucleotide primer and at least one dideoxynucleotide derivative, under conditions sufficient to permit a polymerase mediated, template-dependent extension of said primer, said extension causing the incorporation of a single dideoxynucleotide to the 3'-terminus of said primer, said single dideoxynucleotide being complementary to the single nucleotide of the polymorphic site of said polymorphism; (F) permitting said template-dependent extension of said primer molecule, and said incorporation of said single dideoxynucleotide; and (G) determining the identity of the nucleotide incorporated into said polymorphic site, said identified nucleotide being complementary to said nucleotide of said polymorphic site. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein said coating step is by means of an aerosol, a vaporization means or any other mechanical means. 28. A method for immobilizing an unmodified nucleic acid molecule to a mercapto-silane or epoxy-silane-coated solid phase comprising coupling said unmodified nucleic acid molecule, wherein said nucleic acid molecule has either a terminal 3' OH or a terminal 5' OH, to said silane-coated solid phase. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said silane is selected from the group consisting of mercapto-alkyl-trimethoxysilane, glycidoxy-alkyl-silane, 3-mercapto-propyl-trimethoxysilane, and 3-glycidoxy propyl trimethoxysilane. 