A stationary vacuum deposition machine for use in a method for processing substrates to make magnetic hard disks includes a series of stations and a transport. The series of stations includes an entrance station for receiving substrates into the machine and a predetermined station. The transport operates in a cycle with each cycle including a transport phase and a stationary phase. The transport causes all the substrates that are in the machine to be moved during the transport phase, and be temporarily held stationary during the stationary phase, such that during each stationary phase a predetermined one of the stations is occupied by one of the substrates while each of a plurality of others of the stations is occupied by a respective one of a plurality of others of the substrates. The machine further includes a plurality of vacuum deposition stations and a scanning beam generator. Each vacuum deposition station operates during each stationary phase such that each station causes a thin film to be deposited on a respective one of the substrates. The scanning beam generator directs a scanning beam at the substrate occupying the predetermined station while the substrate is held stationary to produce a textured pattern.
Claims We claim: 1. A multiple station vacuum deposition machine for processing substrates to make magnetic hard disks, the machine comprising: a series of stations including an entrance station for receiving substrates into the machine, and a texturing station; transport means for operating in a cycle with each cycle including a transport phase and a stationary phase such that the transport means causes all the substrates that are in the machine to be moved during the transport phase, and be temporarily held stationary during the stationary phase, such that during each stationary phase the texturing station is occupied by one of the substrates while each of a plurality of others of the stations is occupied by a respective one of a plurality of others of the substrates; a plurality of station vacuum deposition means, each for operating during each stationary phase such that each vacuum deposition means causes a thin film to be deposited on a respective one of the substrates; and scanning beam generating means for directing a scanning beam at the substrate occupying the texturing station during each stationary phase to produce a textured pattern; wherein the transport means transports respective ones of the substrates from the entrance station sequentially through each of the other series of stations, and further wherein the series of stations does not include a material deposition station located sequentially between the entrance station and the texturing station. 2. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 1 wherein the scanning beam generating means is configured to texture a substrate composed of a metal, glass or ceramic. 3. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 1 wherein the scanning beam generating means comprises: an auto focus sensor for focusing the scanning beam on a substrate occupying the texturing station. 4. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 1 wherein each station vacuum deposition means is a sputtering means for causing the thin film to be sputtered on the respective one of the substrates. 5. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 3 wherein the substrates each include a center hole and an annular region, and further wherein the auto focus sensor causes the scanning beam to strike the annular region of a substrate occupying the texturing station in a direction perpendicular to a plane of the annular region. 6. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 5 wherein the annular region is an inner annular region. 7. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 1 wherein the scanning beam generating means includes a laser and a scan lens, the scan lens being moved to selectively direct a laser beam generated by the laser. 8. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 7 wherein the scan lens rotates and translates relative to a substrate occupying the texturing station. 9. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 7 wherein the movable scan lens is configured to compensate for variations in pitch and yaw of a substrate occupying the texturing station. 10. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 7 wherein the laser is stationary such that the movable scan lens directs the scanning beam to various locations on a substrate occupying the texturing station. 11. The multiple station vacuum deposition machine of claim 1 wherein the transport means transports respective ones of the substrates from the entrance station sequentially through each of the other series of stations, and further comprising a sputter etch station located sequentially between the entrance station and the texturing station. 