A flexible sheet to which manufacturing processes are to be applied is tensioned within a carrying fixture having tacky surfaces to which the flexible sheet is fastened. One version of the fixture includes an "L"-shaped attachment surface on a frame member and two tensioning members deflected toward the frame member in mutually perpendicular directions. When the flexible sheet has been fastened to the carrying fixture, the tensioning members are allowed to return toward their undeflected positions while applying tensioning forces to the flexible sheet. Another version of the fixture includes "L"-shaped attachment surfaces on both a frame member and a tensioning member. A loading station includes a stack of unprocessed flexible sheets, a fixture for deflecting tensioning member(s) within the carrying fixture, and a robot arm moving a transport fixture capable of carrying a flexible sheet and a carrying fixture. An unloading station includes a stack to processed flexible sheets, a fixture at which processed flexible sheets are separated from the carrying fixtures, and a similar robot arm with a similar transport fixture. A lower conveyor carries loaded fixtures from the loading station to the unloading station. An upper conveyor carries empty fixtures from the unloading station to the loading station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for carrying a flexible sheet in a tensioned condition, wherein said apparatus comprises: a frame member including a flat L-shaped first attachment surface with a tacky coating; a first tensioning member having a flat second attachment surface with a tacky coating, wherein said second attachment surface extends coplanar with said first attachment surface, wherein said first and second attachment surfaces are configured so that said tacky coating on said first attachment surface is attachable to a first peripheral region of a surface of said flexible sheet, with said first peripheral region extending along edges of said flexible sheet from a first corner thereof, while said second attachment surface is simultaneously attachable to a second peripheral region of said surface of said flexible sheet, with said second peripheral region extending along an edge of said flexible sheet opposite said first corner thereof; and first flexible attachment means attaching said first tensioning member to said frame member, permitting motion of said first tensioning member from an undeflected position thereof toward said first attachment surface in a first direction, while providing a force returning said first tensioning member toward said undeflected position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising additionally: a second tensioning member having a flat third attachment surface with a tacky coating, wherein said third attachment surface extends coplanar with said first attachment surface, wherein said first and third attachment surfaces are configured so that said tacky coating on said first attachment surface is attachable to said first peripheral region of a surface of said flexible sheet, while said third attachment surface is simultaneously attachable to a third peripheral region of said surface of said flexible sheet extending along an edge of said flexible sheet between said first and second peripheral regions; and second flexible attachment means attaching said second tensioning member to said frame member, permitting motion of said second tensioning member from an undeflected position thereof toward said first attachment surface in a direction perpendicular to said first direction, while providing a force returning said first tensioning member toward said undeflected position. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said frame member extends around an internal aperture, with said first attachment surface extending adjacent edges of said internal aperture from a first corner of said frame member, and said first and second tensioning members extend along first and second portions of said frame member from a corner of said frame member opposite said first corner thereof toward ends of said first attachment surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said frame member includes first and second intermediate surfaces extending parallel to said first attachment surface, said first tensioning member includes a third intermediate surface extending opposite and parallel to said second attachment surface, said first flexible attachment means comprises a first elastomeric strip fastened to said first and third intermediate surfaces and extending therebetween; said second tensioning member includes a fourth intermediate surface extending opposite and parallel to said third attachment surface, and said second flexible attachment means comprises a second elastomeric strip fastened to said second and fourth intermediate surface and extending therebetween. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said first tensioning member includes first alignment surfaces at opposite ends of said first elastomeric strip in sliding contact with said first intermediate surface, and said second tensioning member includes second alignment surfaces at opposite ends of said second elastomeric strip in sliding contact with said second intermediate surface. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said frame member includes first and second cavities with undercut surfaces, said first tensioning member includes a third cavity extending opposite said second attachment surface, said first flexible attachment means comprises elastomeric material extending within and between said first and third cavities, said second tensioning member includes a fourth cavity extending opposite said third attachment surface, and said second flexible attachment means comprises elastomeric material extending within and between said second and fourth cavities. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, comprising additionally a loading fixture to which said frame member is removably engaged, wherein said loading fixture includes: frame locating surfaces holding said first corner of said frame member in a preferred location in engagement with said loading fixture; first actuating means for moving said first tensioning member toward said first attachment surface in said first direction; and second actuating means for moving said second tensioning member toward said first attachment surface in said direction perpendicular to said first direction. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first tensioning member includes an L-shaped structure, having a tensioning corner and two tensioning legs extending perpendicular to one another from said tensioning corner, said second attachment surface is L-shaped, said second attachment surface is configured so that said second peripheral region extends along both edges of said flexible sheet opposite said first corner of said flexible sheet, and said first direction extends from said tensioning corner to a corner of said first attachment surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said frame member includes an L-shaped structure, having a frame corner and two frame legs extending perpendicular to one another from said frame corner, and said first flexible attachment means includes a pair of elastomeric strips extending between ends of said frame legs and ends of said tensioning legs. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said first flexible attachment means additionally includes a slider assembly, extending between ends of said frame legs and ends of said tensioning legs, restricting movement between said frame member and said first tensioning member to motion in and opposite said first direction. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said frame member includes an L-shaped structure, having a frame corner and two frame legs extending perpendicular to one another from said frame corner, said first flexible attachment means includes a pair of flexible strips extending between ends of said frame legs and ends of said tensioning legs, and said frame member, said tensioning member, and said flexible strips include integral portions of a frame structure. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said first flexible attachment means additionally includes a slider assembly, extending between ends of said frame legs and ends of said tensioning legs, restricting movement between said frame member and said first tensioning member to motion in and opposite said first direction. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, comprising additionally a loading fixture to which said frame member is removably engaged, wherein said loading fixture includes: frame locating surfaces holding said frame corner in a preferred location in engagement with said loading fixture; and releasable actuating means for moving said first tensioning member in said first direction. 14. A method for attaching a flexible sheet to a carrying fixture for carrying said flexible sheet through processing, wherein said method comprises the steps of: (a) moving a first tensioning member of said carrying fixture toward an L-shaped flat first attachment surface having a tacky coating, on a frame member of said carrying fixture, in a first direction from an undeflected position of said first tensioning member, wherein said first tensioning member has a second attachment surface with a tacky coating, and wherein said second attachment surface extends coplanar with said first attachment surface; (b) pressing said flexible sheet onto said carrying fixture, with said tacky coating on said first attachment surface being attached to a first peripheral region of a surface of said flexible sheet, with said first peripheral region extending along edges of said flexible sheet from a first corner thereof, and with said second attachment surface being attached to a second peripheral region of said surface of said flexible sheet, with said second peripheral region extending along an edge of said flexible sheet opposite said first corner thereof; and (c) releasing said first tensioning member to return toward said undeflected position thereof, with a return force acting on said first tensioning member provided by a first flexible attachment means fastening said first tensioning member to said frame member. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said step (a) additionally includes moving a second tensioning member of said carrying fixture toward said first attachment surface in a direction perpendicular to said first direction, with said second tensioning member having a third attachment surface with a tacky coating, and with said third attachment surface extending coplanar with said first attachment surface; in said step (b), said flexible sheet is pressed onto said carrying fixture with said third attachment surface being attached to a third peripheral region of said surface of said flexible sheet, extending along an edge of said flexible sheet between said first and second peripheral regions, and said step (c) additionally includes releasing said second tensioning member to return toward said undeflected position thereof, with a return force acting on said second tensioning member provided by a second flexible attachment means fastening said second tensioning member to said frame member. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein said first tensioning member includes an L-shaped structure, having a tensioning corner and two tensioning legs extending perpendicular to one another from said tensioning corner, said second attachment surface is L-shaped, said second attachment surface is configured so that said second peripheral region extends along both edges of said flexible sheet opposite said first corner of said flexible sheet, and said first direction extends from said tensioning corner to a corner of said first attachment surface. 