Prophylactic devices are made in an inert atmosphere by cooling mandrels on which the devices are to be deposited, dipping the mandrels into a polymeric material in a solvent/carrier and a mold release agent, rotating the mandrels during and after the dipping, and evaporating the solvent after dipping. The apparatus includes an air lock between a section in which these functions are performed and a section located in an air atmosphere for removing the devices from the mandrels, followed by cleaning the mandrels for use in a subsequent production run for making devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for making prophylactic devices, comprising: at least one cooling chamber; a reservoir holding a dipping solution including polymeric material dissolved in a solvent/carrier, the temperature of said cooling chamber being adjusted to that of said dipping solution; a dipping chamber for dipping a mandrel in and withdrawing it from said reservoir; a rotation chamber; at least one evaporation chamber; all of said chambers having doors on either side; means for placing a mandrel on which the device is to be deposited in each chamber in succession in the order named with the doors closed; means for controlling the concentration of solvent/carrier at given respective levels in said chambers; and means for maintaining the concentration of oxygen below a given value in said chambers. 2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said solvent/carrier consists of THF and said solvent/carrier controlling means being further adapted for controlling THF concentration. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said reservoir further holds a mold releasing agent in combination with said dipping solution. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: means for preparing mandrels for the deposition of a film thereon, said means having an air atmosphere; means for removing the film from a mandrel; an air lock; means for passing mandrels from said means for preparing mandrels to said cooling chamber(s) via said air lock; and means for passing mandrels from said evaporation chamber(s) to said means for removing film from a mandrel via said air lock. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2, further comprising: said means for controlling the concentration of THF at respective levels in said chambers including means for introducing inert gas therein, thereby forcing air from said chambers; and means for recovering THF coupled to receive the gas forced from the chambers. 6. Apparatus for making prophylactic devices, comprising: a first section containing means for preparing mandrels for the deposition of film thereon and means for removing film from mandrels, said first section being in an atmosphere containing air; a second section containing means for depositing film on mandrels in an inert atmosphere containing THF; an air lock coupled between said first and second sections, said air lock having a first door opening into said first section and a second door opening into said second section; means for creating a first vacuum in said air lock; means for breaking said first vacuum with air; means for opening said first door when said air lock contains air; means for passing a mandrel through the open said first door in a given direction between said air lock and said first section; means for closing said first door; means for creating a second vacuum in said air lock; means for breaking said vacuum with inert gas; means for opening said second door when said air lock contains inert gas; and means for passing a mandrel through the open said second door in a given direction between said air lock and said second section. 7. Apparatus for making prophylactic devices, comprising: at least one cooling chamber; a reservoir holding a dipping solution including polymeric material dissolved in a solvent/carrier; a dipping chamber for dipping a mandrel in and withdrawing it from said reservoir; a rotation chamber including means for rotating said mandrel about its longitudinal axis, while simultaneously rotating the longitudinal axis thereof in its planes; at least one evaporation chamber; all of said chambers having doors on either side; means for placing a mandrel on which the device is to be in each chamber in succession in the order named with the doors closed; means for controlling the concentration of solvent/carrier at given respective levels in said chambers; and means for maintaining the concentration of oxygen below a given value in said chambers. 8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said solvent/carrier consists of THF, and said solvent controlling means being further adapted for controlling THF concentration. 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said reservoir further holds a mold releasing agent in combination with said dipping solution. 10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7, further comprising: means for preparing mandrels for the deposition of a film thereon, said means having an air atmosphere; means for removing the film from a mandrel; an air lock; means for passing mandrels from said means for preparing mandrels to said cooling chamber(s) via said air lock; and means for passing mandrels from said evaporation chamber(s) to said means for removing film from a mandrel via said air lock. 11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 8, further comprising: said means for controlling the concentration of THF at respective levels in said chambers including means for introducing inert gas therein, thereby forcing air from said chambers; and means for recovering THF coupled to receive the gas forced from the chambers. 12. Apparatus for making prophylactic devices, comprising: at least one cooling chamber; a reservoir holding a dipping solution including polymeric material dissolved in solvent/carrier; a dipping chamber for dipping a mandrel in and withdrawing it from said reservoir; a rotation chamber; at least one evaporation chamber; all of said chambers having doors on either side; means for placing a mandrel on which the device is to be deposited in each chamber in succession in the order named with the doors closed; means for controlling the concentration of solvent/carrier at given respective levels in said chambers; means for maintaining the concentration of oxygen below a given value in said chambers; means for preparing mandrels for the deposition of a film thereon, said means having an air atmosphere; means for removing the film from a mandrel; an air lock; means for passing mandrels from said means for preparing mandrels to said cooling chamber(s) via said air lock; and means for passing mandrels from said evaporation chamber(s) to said means for removing film from a mandrel via said air lock. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein said solvent/carrier consists of THF, and said solvent/carrier controlling means being further adapted for controlling THF concentration. 14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12, wherein said reservoir further holds a mold releasing agent in combination with said dipping solution. 15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 13, further comprising: said means for controlling the concentration of THF at respective levels in said chambers including means for introducing inert gas therein, thereby forcing air from said chambers; and means for recovering THF coupled to receive the gas forced from the chambers. 