The invention provides a method for providing human input to a computer which allows a user to interact with a display connected to the computer. The method includes the steps of placing a first target on a first portion of the user's body, using an electro-optical sensing means, sensing data related to the location of the first target and data related to the location of a second portion of the user's body, the first and second portions of the user's body being movable relative to each other, providing an output of the electro-optical sensing means to the input of the computer, determining the location of the first target and the location of the second portion of the user's body, and varying the output of the computer to the display based upon the determined locations for contemporaneous viewing by the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing human input to a computer which allows a user to interact with a display connected to said computer, said method comprising: placing a first target on a first portion of said user's body; using an electro-optical sensing means, sensing data relating to the location of said first target and sensing data related to the location of a second portion of said user's body wherein said first and second portions of said user's body are movable relative to each other; providing an output from said electro-optical sensing means to an input of said computer; using said computer, determining the location of said first target and the location of said second portion of said user's body; and varying an output from said computer to said display based upon said determined location of said first target and said location of said second portion of said user's body, for contemporaneous viewing by said user. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising determining the location of said first target and said location of said second portion of said user's body in three dimensional space. 3. A method according to claim 1, further comprising placing at least three targets on said first portion of said user's body, sensing data related to the location of said at least three targets, based on said data, determining the orientation of said first portion of said user's body and, further varying the output of said computer to said display based upon said determined orientation of said first portion of said user's body. 4. A method according to claim 3, further comprising determining movement of said first portion of said user's body in six degrees (x, y, z, roll, pitch, and yaw). 5. A method according to claim 1, further comprising determining relative movement of said first target and said second portion of said user's body over time and further varying the output of said computer to said display based upon said determined relative movement. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said first target is placed on a portion of said user's hand. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said second portion of said user's body comprises one of said user's fingers on said user's hand. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said first target reflects a different color than said second target and wherein said first and second targets are differentiated by said computer. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said at least two targets reflects a different color than another of said at least two targets and wherein said targets are differentiated by said computer. 10. A method according to claim 7, further comprising placing a second target on said one of said user's fingers. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said first target is placed on the large central portion of said user's hand, said method further comprising determining the location of said second target on said user's finger with respect to said first target on the large central portion of said user's hand. 12. A method according to claim 6, wherein said first target is placed on one of said user's fingers of said user's hand and said second target is placed on a second of said user's fingers, said method further comprising determining the location of each of said first and second targets. 13. A method according to claim 6, wherein said first target is positioned on a glove and said glove is placed on said user's hand. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said first target is placed on said user's head. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein said first target is positioned on a hat and said hat is placed on said user's head. 16. A method according to claim 14, wherein a second target is placed on said user's hand. 17. A method according to claim 14, further comprising placing at least two targets on said user's head, wherein at least one of said at least two targets reflects a different shape than another of said at least two targets and wherein said targets are differentiated by said computer. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein said first target comprises a retroreflective target. 19. A method according to claim 18, further comprising illuminating said first retroreflective target. 20. A method according to claim 1, wherein said electro-optical sensing means comprises at least two cameras. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein said location of said first target is determined using stereo photogrametry. 