A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. The rotary indexing device is driven by a single shaft drive assembly which provides a compact annular drive from two intermittent indexing drives to two coaxial cam dials that provide rotation and reciprocation of the universal gripper. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a frame for said apparatus, said frame supporting a drive means, said drive means including a first and a second intermittent drive, each of said intermittent drives having a drive period and a dwell period; (b) a swage dial and a cam dial mounted for rotation about a first axis of rotation, said swage dial mounted for rotation on a first drive shaft which rotates about said first axis of rotation, said drive shaft driven by said first intermittent drive; (c) a plurality of universal gripper mounted on said swage dial for successively receiving an individual one of a plurality of precisely positioned needles at a first predetermined location and indexing each of said individual successive needles in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive locations for sequential processing at subsequent predetermined locations, each of said universal grippers having a cam follower which cooperates with said cam dial to provide radial reciprocation of said universal grippers with respect to said swage dial in response to rotation of said cam dial; (d) an annular drive shaft mounted on said first drive shaft, said annular drive shaft coupling said second intermittent drive and said cam dial for rotation about said first axis; whereby said universal grippers are rotated by said swage dial to each of said predetermined locations and reciprocated by said cam dial at each of said plurality of predetermined locations. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said swage dial is coupled to said first drive shaft by a breakaway clutch. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first and said second intermittent drives are coupled and driven by a single motor. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 wherein each of said intermittent drives include 180 degrees of dwell and 180 degrees of rotation. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes at least one off-set drive at least one of said predetermined locations to engage said universal gripper during radial reciprocation thereof to provide a compound movement during radial reciprocation from a first retracted position to a second extended position with respect to said swage dial. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes one of said off-set drives at a first predetermined location for precise engagement of said needles and a second one of said off-set drives at a subsequent predetermined swage location. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 7 wherein each of said universal grippers is mounted on said swage dial with a spring loaded linear slide, wherein said gripper is reciprocated in a radial direction by said cam plate, and reciprocated transversely thereto along said linear slide by said off-set drive. 9. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said first shaft is journalled for rotation in said frame, and supports said swage dial through said breakaway clutch. 10. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a frame for said apparatus, said frame supporting a drive means, said drive means including a first and a second intermittent drive, each of said intermittent drives having a drive period and a dwell period; (b) a swage dial and a cam dial mounted for rotation about a first axis of rotation, said swage dial mounted for rotation on a first drive shaft which rotates about said first axis of rotation, said drive shaft driven by said first intermittent drive; (c) a plurality of universal gripper mounted on said swage dial for successively receiving an individual one of a plurality of precisely positioned needles at a first predetermined location and indexing each of said individual successive needles in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive locations for sequential processing at subsequent predetermined locations, each of said universal grippers having a cam follower which cooperates with said cam dial to provide radial reciprocation of said universal grippers with respect to said swage dial in response to rotation of said cam dial; (d) an annular drive shaft mounted on said first drive shaft, said annular drive shaft coupling said second intermittent drive and said cam dial for rotation about said first axis; (e) a suture insertion station located at a second predetermined location for automatically inserting a suture of predetermined length into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle; (e) a needle swaging station for swaging said surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly, (f) means for receiving individual needle and suture assemblies from said universal gripper and accumulating a predetermined number thereof to provide a bundle of needle suture assemblies for subsequent packaging; whereby unsorted needles and lengths of suture material are formed into a bundle of surgical needle and suture assemblies. 11. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said universal gripper means includes a compound movement during radial reciprocation from a first retracted position to a second extended position with respect to said swage dial. 12. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said suture insertion station further includes means for cutting said suture of predetermined length from an indefinite length suture, said station further comprising: (a) a drawing frame, said frame having at least one longitudinal member and defining a drawing axis parallel thereto; (b) means for feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (c) first and second gripping means for gripping said indefinite length suture strand and drawing it along said drawing axis, said first gripping means mounted for reciprocal movement on said at least one longitudinal member; (d) means for cutting said indefinite length suture strand to form said suture of predetermined length; and (e) said second gripping means reciprocal to a start position along said drawing axis and below said cutting means, while said first drawing means is drawing said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutting means, whereby said suture of predetermined length is inserted within said suture receiving opening of said needle and cut to a predetermined length by said cutting means after said second gripping means has gripped said indefinite length suture strand at said start position. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said needle swaging station includes first and second swaging die means, said first swaging die means having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die means having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said second swaging die means is positioned next to said first swaging die means to form a swage die opening for receiving said needle. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said first swaging die means is fixed in position and said second swaging die means is laterally movable toward and away from said first fixed swage die means. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said swage die opening is axially aligned with said drawing axis at said swaging station, with said universal gripper means in said retracted position prior to positioning said surgical needle within said swage die opening, and is extended and translated in a compound movement to position said suture receiving opening of said needle in said swage die opening prior to swaging. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said swaging station further includes a funnel guide means positioned at said insertion zone between a free end of said definite length suture strand and said suture receiving opening of said needle, said funnel die means including a tapered opening axially aligned with said swage die opening for directing said free end of said suture strand into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned therein. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said swage dial is coupled to said first drive shaft by a breakaway clutch. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said first and said second intermittent drives are coupled and driven by a single motor. 20. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 19 wherein each of said intermittent drives include 180 degrees of dwell and 180 degrees of rotation for each two revolutions of said motor, wherein said swage dial is advanced in 90 degree increments and said cam dial is rotated in 90 degree increments that are out of phase with respect to said swage dial. 21. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said apparatus further includes at least one off-set drive at least one of said predetermined locations to engage said universal gripper during radial reciprocation thereof to provide a compound movement during radial reciprocation from a first retracted position to a second extended position with respect to said swage dial. 22. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said apparatus further includes one of said off-set drives at a first predetermined location for precise engagement of said needles and a second one of said off-set drives at said swaging station. 23. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 24. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 23 wherein each of said universal grippers is mounted on said swage dial with a spring loaded linear slide, wherein said gripper is reciprocated in a radial direction by said cam plate, and reciprocated transversely thereto along said linear slide by said off-set drive. 25. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said first shaft is journalled for rotation in said frame, and supports said swage dial during rotation thereof through said breakaway clutch. 