An implantable medical device such as a defibrillator is described. The device includes an hermetically sealed housing containing a flat electrolytic capacitor and an energy source such as a battery. The battery is connected to the capacitor and provides charge thereto. The capacitor stores the charge at a relatively high voltage. The charge stored in the capacitor is discharged through a defibrillation lead to a site on or in the heart when fibrillation of the heart is detected by the implantable medical device. Methods of making and using the implantable medical device, the capacitor, and their various components are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a flat electrolytic capacitor, the capacitor comprising a plurality of substantially flat cathode layers formed of cathode foil, a plurality of substantially flat anode sub-assemblies, each anode sub-assembly being formed of a plurality of anode layers formed of anode foil, a plurality of substantially flat separator layers formed of separator material, the separator layers being disposed between alternating sequences of vertically stacked and adjoining cathode layers and anode sub-assemblies, the vertically stacked separator layers, cathode layers and anode sub-assemblies forming an electrode assembly, the capacitor further comprising a case having sidewalls extending upwardly from a flat substantially planar base to form an open end, the case or cover having a fill port disposed through the sidewalls, base or surfaces thereof, the fill port being sealed, the electrode assembly being disposed within the open end inside the case, the cover sealing the open end of the case, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing the case; (b) providing the cover; (c) providing the electrode assembly; (d) disposing the electrode assembly in the case; (e) sealing the case with the cover to form the capacitor, (f) placing the capacitor in a vacuum chamber, (g) introducing electrolyte within the case through the fill port; (h) in a first vacuum creating step, creating a first vacuum in the chamber; (i) in a first venting step, venting the chamber, and (j) sealing the fill port. 2. The method of claim 1, before the fill port sealing step and after the first venting step, further comprising a second vacuum creating step of creating a scanned vacuum in the chamber. 3. The method of claim 2, after the second vacuum creating step and before the fill port sealing step, further comprising a second venting step of venting the chamber. 4. The method of claim 2, after the first venting step and before the second vacuum creating step, further comprising the step of terminating the introduction of electrolyte within the case through the fill port. 5. The method of claim 4, before the electrolyte introduction termination step and after the first venting step, further comprising at least a third vacuum creating step of creating a third vacuum in the chamber. 6. The method of claim 5, after the third vacuum creating step and before the electrolyte introduction termination step, further comprising a third step of venting the chamber. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte introduction step further comprises the step of placing a tube between the fill port and a container having electrolyte disposed therein. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the tube placement step precedes the second vacuum creating step. 9. The method of any one of claims 1, 2, or 7, wherein the vacuum creating step further comprises the step of creating a vacuum having a pressure less than that corresponding to a pressure at which the electrolyte boils. 10. The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9, further comprising a capacitor aging step. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the capacitor aging step further comprises the step of drawing a predetermined amount of electrical current from the capacitor for a predetermined amount of time. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the capacitor aging step further comprises the step of drawing electrical current from the capacitor for a predetermined amount of time. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the capacitor aging step further comprises the step of drawing electrical current from the capacitor until a predetermined rate of decrease in the current is attained. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the capacitor aging step is carried out at a temperature exceeding room temperature. 15. The method of any one of claims 10, 11, 12, 13, or 14, and before the fill port sealing step, wherein the capacitor aging step is followed by at least a fourth vacuum creating step and a fourth venting step. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein further electrolyte is introduced within the capacitor during the fourth vacuum creating and fourth venting steps. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte introduction step further comprises the step of providing an ethylene glycol-based electrolyte. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the housing placement step further comprises the step of providing a housing for an implantable medical device selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a hydrogen permeable seal near the fill port. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of measuring the hermeticity of the sealed fill port by positioning a helium source outside the can and a helium detector inside the can. 