An apparatus integrating pad conditioning device (44) with a wafer carrier device (24) for chemical-mechanical polishing applications includes an attaching mechanism (45) for associating conditioning device (44) with wafer carrier device (24). Conditioning surface (84) of conditioning device (44) conditions the polishing pad associates with attaching mechanism (45). Carrier device (24) receives and holds wafer (42) so that wafer (42) and conditioning surface (44) contact the polishing pad (42) to simultaneously condition polishing pad (26) and polish wafer (42).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing a CMP process on a wafer, comprising the steps of: contacting the wafer with a carrier device and a polishing pad; associating a conditioning surface of the carrier device with the polishing pad at the same time that the wafer contacts the carrier device and the polishing pad for simultaneously polishing the wafer with the polishing pad and conditioning the polishing pad with the conditioning surface; and conditioning the polishing pad with a toothed crystalline-substrate conditioning surface comprising a plurality of teeth, each of said teeth comprising dimensional spacing and size comparable to the cell structure dimensions and spacing of the polishing pad. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of simultaneously polishing the wafer and conditioning the polishing pad with a conditioning region with a conditioning surface that surrounds the wafer. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of conditioning the polishing pad by directing ultrasonic energy to the polishing pad to dislodge slurry deposits from within and on the polishing pad. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the polishing pad moves relative to the wafer and further comprising the step of conditioning a predetermined area of the polishing pad immediately prior in time to the time at which selected area contacts and polishes the wafer. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the polishing pad moves relative to the wafer and further comprising the step of conditioning a selected area of the polishing pad at a time immediately following the time at which the selected area contacts and polishes the wafer. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the carrier device rotates at a selected speed and in a selected direction relative to the polishing pad and further comprising the step of rotating the conditioning surface in association with the carrier device. 7. An apparatus integrating a wafer carrier and polishing pad conditioner for chemical-mechanical polishing applications, comprising: a conditioning device for conditioning the polishing pad; a carrier device for holding the wafer and associated with said conditioning surface so that the wafer and said conditioning surface may be placed in contact with the polishing pad as a unit for simultaneously conditioning the polishing pad and polishing the wafer; and wherein said conditioning device further comprises a conditioning surface comprising a toothed crystalline-substrate conditioning surface comprising a plurality of conditioning teeth each comprising dimensional spacing and size comparable to the cell structure dimensions and spacing of the polishing pad. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said conditioning device is essentially circular and further wherein said carrier device is an approximately circular area surrounded by said conditioning device. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said conditioning device comprises an ultrasonic emitter for directing ultrasonic energy to said polishing pad for dislodging slurry deposits from within the polishing pad cellular structure. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said wafer moves relative to the polishing pad and said conditioning device conditions a selected area on the polishing pad immediately prior in time to the time at which said selected area contacts and polishes the wafer. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said conditioning device conditions a selected area on the polishing pad immediately following said selected area contacting and polishing the wafer. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said conditioning device attaches to the carrier device such that said condition surface rotates in correspondence with the rotation of said carrier device. 13. A CMP system for polishing a wafer, comprising: a carrier device for holding the wafer; a platen for rotating at a predetermined speed and direction; a polishing pad associated with said platen for polishing the wafer; a slurry coating for lubricating said polishing pad as the wafer contacts the polishing pad and further for mildly abrading and polishing the wafer; and said carrier device further for conditioning said polishing pad and comprising a conditioning surface for conditioning the polishing pad, said carrier device holds the wafer so that the wafer and said conditioning surface contact said polishing pad for simultaneously conditioning said polishing pad and polishing the wafer; and wherein said conditioning surface comprises a toothed crystalline-substrate conditioning surface comprising a plurality of teeth each comprising a dimensional spacing and size comparable to the dimensional spacing and size of the cell structure of said polishing pad. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising a plurality of said carrier devices for simultaneously polishing a plurality of wafers on said polishing pad while separately and simultaneously conditioning each position on said polishing pad associated with each of said plurality of wafers. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said conditioning surface is an approximately annular disk and further wherein said carrier device is an approximately circular disk nestled within said conditioning surface. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein said conditioning surface comprises an ultrasonic emitter for directing ultrasonic energy to said polishing pad for dislodging slurry deposits from within and on said polishing pad. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein said carrier device rotates and further wherein said attaching mechanism attaches said conditioning surface to the carrier device such that, as said carrier device rotates, said conditioning surface rotates in association with said carrier device. 18. An apparatus integrating a wafer carrier and polishing pad conditioner for chemical-mechanical polishing applications, comprising: a conditioning device for conditioning the polishing pad; a carrier device for holding the wafer and associated with said conditioning surface so that the wafer and said conditioning surface may be placed in contact with the polishing pad as a unit for simultaneously conditioning the polishing pad and polishing the wafer; and an independent control mechanism for independently controlling the downward force of said conditioning device and the downward force of said carrier device. 