A system of machined and welded pipe with no connectors or scarfed welds and method to provide a continuous section for pipe and pipe-like structures; displaying electron beam welding for constructing continuous pipe.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections without connectors comprising; means for vertically arranging a first, upper pipe segment in alignment with a second, lower pipe segment, each pipe segment having pipe ends having surfaces; means for butting the upper pipe segment to the lower pipe segment; means for machining in place butting up ends of associated pipe sections with automated tooling means for weld preparation of pipe ends including facing both surfaces wherein both surfaces are machined in position at the same time with the same tooling wherein fresh accurate joints are produced to receive a weld; and performing a welding operation on ends of associated pipe wherein said robot means rotates about the pipe and each section of pipe is fed into said vertical portable robot for high energy weld of said first pipe section to said second section of pipe. 2. The welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections of claim 1 wherein the method includes a "real time" joint tracking aerial to ensure that the joint is in center of weld. 3. The welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections of claim 1 wherein said robotic means can also move laterally so that the pipe can be continuously deployed. 4. The welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections of claim 3 wherein said robotic means provides for heave compensation. 5. The welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections of claim 1 wherein welding parameters are microprocessor controlled for repeatable precision such that pipe is retrieved and cut by the same control system to restack the pipe ready for the next production drill. 6. The welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections of claim 1 wherein preheat treatment can be programmed into process parameters to control the microstructure of super strength alloys by jumping said beam fore and aft of the weld during rotation. 7. A welding apparatus for connecting pipe sections comprising; drilling pipe means for production pipe deployment having a lurality of sections of pipe arranged in a stack each pipe having an end; automated tooling means for weld preparation of each pipe end in place including facing both surfaces wherein both surfaces are machined in position at the same time with the same tooling wherein fresh accurate joints are produced to receive a weld; robotic means for providing a high energy weld beam for welding of said first pipe section to a second pipe section comprising a vertical robot arranged to rotate about the pipe; welding mean for forming high energy deep penetration weld comprising electron beam a narrow weld zone; and robotic means for controlling high speed welding wherein the surrounding metal quenches the narrow weld zone at such a rate that grain growth and alloy dissolution does not change in the weld area. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein a high energy weld takes place robotically at extremely high speed wherein the surrounding metal quenches the narrow band of weld metal at such a rate that grain growth and alloy dissolution does not change in the weld area. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein preheat treatment can be programmed into process parameters to control the microstructure of super strength alloys by jumping the beam fore and aft of the weld during rotation. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein an angled joint is provided in the pipe section, the weld is longer than the section span of the pipe to provide a total weld length that is higher than the cross section of the pipe, providing 100% pipe integrity and no loss of cross sectional length. 