The present disclosure relates to motion responsive devices and systems that may be configured for projection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device comprising: one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions; and one or more image-stabilized projectors that are responsive to the one or more projector control units and that are responsive to one or more projection surface sensors that are configured to detect one or more features associated with the one or more projection surfaces, wherein the one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions include: one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit receivers that are configurable to wirelessly receive via the one or more projection surface sensors one or more signals that include information associated with one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces, the one or more projection surface sensors being co-located with the one or more projection surfaces and configured to detect the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces resulting from a first magnetic ink applied to the one or more projection surfaces and resulting from a second magnetic ink applied to the one or more projection surfaces. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more image-stabilized projectors that are responsive to the one or more projector control units and that are responsive to one or more projection surface sensors that are configured to detect one or more features associated with one or more projection surfaces comprise: one or more image-stabilized projectors that are operably associated with the one or more projection surface sensors via the one or more projector control units. 3. The device of claim 1, further comprising: one or more housings. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the one or more housings comprise: one or more housings that are configured as a handheld device. 5. The device of claim 3, wherein the one or more housings comprise: one or more mountable housings. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions further comprise: one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit transmitters that are configurable to wirelessly transmit one or more signals that instruct the one or more projection surfaces to transmit the one or more signals that include the information associated with the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the features include a pressure applied to the one or more projection surfaces, a magnetic ink applied to the one or more projection surfaces, or physical conformations associated with the one or more projection surfaces resulting from a strain to the one or more projection surfaces. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more projection surface sensors include one or more strain surface sensors. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more projector control units are configurable to respond to the one or more substantial defined motion by instantiating a change of content projected onto the projection surface. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more projector control unit are configurable to respond to one or more projection surface sensors detecting features associated with one or more projection surfaces by instantiating a change of content projected onto the projection surface. 11. A system comprising: circuitry for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions; and circuitry for operating one or more image-stabilized projectors that are responsive to the one or more projector control units and that are responsive to one or more projection surface sensors that are configured to detect one or more features associated with one or more projection surfaces, wherein the circuitry for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions includes: circuitry for operating one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit receivers that are configurable to wirelessly receive via the one or more projection surface sensors one or more signals that include information associated with one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces, the one or more projection surface sensors being co-located with the one or more projection surfaces and configured to detect the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces resulting from a magnetic ink applied to the one or more projection surfaces. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the circuitry for operating one or more image-stabilized projectors that are responsive to the one or more projector control units and that are responsive to one or more projection surface sensors that are configured to detect one or more features associated with one or more projection surfaces comprises: circuitry for operating one or more image-stabilized projectors that are operably associated with the one or more projection surface sensors via the one or more projector control units. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the circuitry for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions further comprises: circuitry for operating one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit transmitters that are configurable to wirelessly transmit one or more signals that instruct the one or more projection surfaces to transmit the one or more signals that include the information associated with the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces. 14. A system comprising: means for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions associated with one or more projection surfaces; and means for operating one or more image-stabilized projectors that are responsive to the one or more projector control units and that are responsive to one or more projection surface sensors that are configured to detect one or more features associated with the one or more projection surfaces resulting from a magnetic ink applied to the one or more projection surfaces, wherein the means for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions associated with the one or more projection surfaces includes: means for operating one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit receivers that are configurable to wirelessly receive via the one or more projection surface sensors one or more signals that include information associated with one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces, the one or more projection surface sensors configured to detect the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the means for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions further comprises: means for operating one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit transmitters that are configurable to wirelessly transmit one or more signals that instruct the one or more projection surfaces to transmit the one or more signals that include the information associated with the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces. 16. A system comprising: an article of manufacture including a non-transitory signal-bearing medium bearing: one or more instructions which when executed by a processor result in one or more projector control units responding to one or more substantially defined motions associated with the one or more projection surfaces by instantiating a change in content projected onto one or more projection surfaces by one or more image-stabilized projectors; and one or more instructions which when executed by the processor result in the one or more image-stabilized projectors responding to the one or more projector control units and responding to one or more projection surface sensors that are configured to detect one or more features associated with the one or more projection surfaces resulting from a magnetic ink applied to the one or more projection surfaces, wherein the one or more instructions which when executed by the processor result in the one or more projector control units responding to one or more substantially defined motions associated with the one or more projection surfaces by instantiating a change in content projected by the one or more image-stabilized projectors include: one or more instructions which when executed by the processor result in the one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit receivers wirelessly receiving via the one or more projection surface sensors one or more signals that include information associated with one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces, the one or more projection surface sensors configured to detect the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more instructions for operating one or more projector control units that are configurable to respond to one or more substantially defined motions further comprise: one or more instructions for operating one or more projector control units that are operably associated with one or more control unit transmitters that are configurable to wirelessly transmit one or more signals that instruct the one or more projection surfaces to transmit the one or more signals that include the information associated with the one or more conformations of the one or more projection surfaces. 