A method for producing a 3D image dataset of an object with an imaging system having an x-ray source and an x-ray detector is provided. A series of two-dimensional arrays of cone beam data from the detector is acquired while the source moves along a substantially planar trajectory around the object. The trajectory is described by a series of source points serially numbered by a counter parameter. The cone beam data is differentiated with respect to the counter parameter at a fixed ray direction to produce a derivative of the cone beam data. The derivative is filtered with a Hilbert-like filter to produce filtered cone beam data. The acquired or the filtered cone beam data is multiplied with a redundancy weighting function. The cone beam data is back-projected to reconstruct a 3D image dataset.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for reconstructing a 3D image dataset of an object with an imaging system having an X-ray source and an x-ray detector, comprising: acquiring a series of two-dimensional arrays of cone beam data from the x-ray detector while the x-ray source moves along a variable radius, non-circular path having a planar trajectory around the object, the trajectory being described by a series of source points along the non-circular path serially numbered by a counter parameter; differentiating the acquired cone beam data with respect to the counter parameter of the planar trajectory at a fixed x-ray ray direction to produce a derivative of the cone beam data; filtering the derivative with a Hilbert-like filter to produce a filtered cone beam data; multiplying the acquired cone beam data with a redundancy weighting function before the differentiating step or multiplying the filtered cone beam data with the redundancy weighting function after the filtering step to produce a processed cone beam data; and back-projecting the processed cone beam data for reconstructing the 3D image dataset. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a distance between the x-ray source and the x-ray detector varies along the trajectory. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least part of the trajectory has a shape of a polygon approximated by a finite number of straight lines. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the number of the straight lines comprises 1 to 30 straight lines. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the trajectory is non-convex. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the derivative is filtered only in a direction parallel to a plane of the trajectory. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the redundancy weighting function is adapted to the trajectory. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the redundancy weighting function is defined by: identifying complementary source points on the trajectory; accessing an auxiliary function c(.lamda.) defined for all source points along the trajectory; and computing the redundancy weighting function as: w(.lamda.,u)=c(.lamda.)/(c(.lamda.)+c.sub.c(.lamda.,u)), wherein .lamda. is the counter parameter, w is the redundancy weighting function, c.sub.c(.lamda.,u) is a sum of the auxiliary function evaluated at the complementary source points. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processed cone beam data is back-projected by a weight that is inversely proportional to a distance between a source point and a position of a currently computed voxel within the 3D image dataset. 10. An imaging system for producing a 3D image dataset of an object, comprising: an x-ray source for emitting photon rays in a cone beam; an x-ray detector comprising a two-dimensional array of detector elements for acquiring a series of two-dimensional arrays of cone beam data while the x-ray source moves along a variable radius, non-circular path having a planar trajectory around the object, the trajectory being described by a series of source points along the non-circular path serially numbered by a counter parameter; and an image reconstruction system for reconstructing the 3D image dataset by: differentiating the acquired cone beam data with respect to the counter parameter of the trajectory at a fixed x-ray ray direction to produce a derivative of the cone beam data; filtering the derivative with a Hilbert-like filter to produce a filtered cone beam data; multiplying the acquired cone beam data with a redundancy weighting function before the differentiating step or multiplying the filtered cone beam data with the redundancy weighting function after the filtering step to produce a processed cone beam data; and back-projecting the processed cone beam data for reconstructing the 3D image dataset. 11. The imaging system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the X-ray source and the x-ray detector are mounted on separate telescopic arms. 12. The imaging system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the trajectory is a non-circular trajectory. 13. The imaging system as claimed in claim 12, wherein part of the trajectory is approximated by a polygon. 14. A computer program stored on a non-transitory computer readable medium for producing a 3D image dataset of an object, wherein, when executed on the computer, the program performs the following steps comprising: accessing a series of two-dimensional arrays of cone beam data acquired by an x-ray detector while an x-ray source moves along a variable radius, non-circular path having a planar trajectory around the object, the trajectory being described by a series of source points along the non-circular path serially numbered by a counter parameter; differentiating the acquired cone beam data with respect to the counter parameter of the trajectory at a fixed x-ray ray direction to produce a derivative of the cone beam data; filtering the derivative with a Hilbert-like filter to produce a filtered cone beam data; multiplying the acquired cone beam data with a redundancy weighting function before the differentiating step or multiplying the filtered cone beam data with the redundancy weighting function after the filtering step to produce a processed cone beam data; and back-projecting the processed cone beam data for reconstructing the 3D image dataset. 