A system includes an interface for receiving a pod having a carrier that receives wafers, and that is initially enclosed within a base and a pod cover. The system also includes a mechanism that transfers an exposed carrier between the interface and a platform of a mass-transfer machine included in the system. The machine includes a gantry arm for transferring the carrier between the platform and a transfer station. A retainer assembly is positionable over the carrier at the transfer station, and over a process carrier that is used in a processing tool. Moveable retainers of the assembly receive and hold wafers. The machine includes an elevator that moves between the transfer station and the process carrier. The elevator extends and retracts for transferring wafers between the retainers and either the carrier or the process carrier. A turntable, that receives the process carrier, permits automatically reorienting wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system for automatically transferring wafers between a Standard Mechanical InterFace ("SMIF") pod and a carrier used in wafer processing; the SMIF pod including: a wafer carrier adapted to receive a plurality of wafers; a base which receives the wafer carrier; and a pod cover which mates with and seals to the base of the SMIF pod thereby enclosing the wafer carrier and any wafers received therein within the pod cover and the base; the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system comprising: pod loader interface adapted for receiving the SMIF pod, for exposing a wafer carrier initially enclosed within the SMIF pod, and for reenclosing the wafer carrier within the SMIF pod, said pod loader interface including a bulkhead that is pierced by a window; a carrier load mechanism that is mechanically coupled to said pod loader interface and is supported from the bulkhead, a portion of said carrier load mechanism entering into and withdrawing out of the window of the bulkhead while said carrier load mechanism transfers the wafer carrier between a position in which the wafer carrier is exposed within said pod loader interface and a wafer transfer station; and a mass-transfer machine that includes the wafer transfer station and which is mechanically coupled directly to said pod loader interface, said mass-transfer machine including: a retainer assembly positioned over the wafer carrier when the wafer carrier is present at the wafer transfer station, said retainer assembly including moveable retainers adapted for receiving wafers; and an elevator that is both: extensible for transferring wafers between a wafer carrier present at the wafer transfer station and a position within said retainer assembly in which the retainers thereof may receive the wafers; and retractable for transferring wafers between the retainers of the retainer assembly which have received wafers and a wafer carrier present at the wafer transfer station. 2. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 wherein said carrier load mechanism reorients the wafer carrier while transferring the wafer carrier between the pod loader interface and the wafer transfer station. 3. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 2 wherein said carrier load mechanism for transferring and reorienting the wafer carrier, includes an end-effector that: rotates in a first direction about a horizontal axis to engage the wafer carrier then disposed in said pod loader interface with wafers received in the wafer carrier being oriented horizontally; raises the wafer carrier; carrying the wafer carrier, rotates about the horizontal axis in a second direction that is reversed from the first direction so that wafers present in said wafer carrier become oriented vertically over the mass-transfer machine, and lowers to deposit the wafer carrier onto said mass-transfer machine. 4. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 wherein said elevator is U-shaped. 5. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 1 wherein the mass-transfer machine is directly coupled to said pod loader interface by a rigid plate that receives both the mass-transfer machine and the pod loader interface. 6. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 5 wherein the plate includes an indexing means for ensuring precise mechanical positioning and repositioning of the pod loader interface with respect to said mass-transfer machine so that the pod loader interface may be removed and replaced precisely in a fast and easy manner. 7. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 6 wherein the indexing means includes holes that pierce both the plate and a base plate of said pod loader interface, together with pins that are received into the holes, each pin extending between the plate and the base plate of said pod loader interface. 8. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 5 wherein the plate is received by guide rails that are coupled to the wafer transfer station, the guide rails permitting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system to slide horizontally with respect to the wafer transfer station to facilitate maintenance or repair thereof. 9. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 8 further comprising adjusting means disposed between the plate and the wafer transfer station for raising, lowering and tilting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system with respect to the wafer transfer station. 10. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 4 wherein the adjusting means includes jack screws that are coupled to the plate. 11. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 5 further comprising adjusting means disposed between the plate and the wafer transfer station for raising, lowering and tilting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system with respect to the wafer transfer station. 12. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 11 wherein the adjusting means includes jack screws that are coupled to the plate. 13. An integrated pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system for automatically transferring wafers between a pod and a carrier used in wafer processing; the pod including: a wafer carrier adapted to receive a plurality of wafers; a base which receives the wafer carrier; and a pod cover which mates with and seals to the base of the pod thereby enclosing the wafer carrier and any wafers received therein within the pod cover and the base; the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system comprising: pod loader interface adapted for receiving the pod, for exposing a wafer carrier initially enclosed within the pod, and for reenclosing the wafer carrier within the pod, said pod loader interface including a bulkhead that is pierced by a window; a carrier load mechanism that is mechanically coupled to said pod loader interface and is supported from the bulkhead, a portion of said carrier load mechanism entering into and withdrawing out of the window of the bulkhead while said carrier load mechanism transfers the wafer carrier between a position in which the wafer carrier is exposed within said pod loader interface and a wafer transfer station; and a mass-transfer machine that includes the wafer transfer station and which is mechanically coupled directly to said pod loader interface, said mass-transfer machine including: a retainer assembly positioned over the wafer carrier when the wafer carrier is present at the wafer transfer station, said retainer assembly including moveable retainers adapted for receiving wafers; and an elevator that is both: extensible for transferring wafers between a wafer carrier present at the wafer transfer station and a position within said retainer assembly in which the retainers thereof may receive the wafers; and retractable for transferring wafers between the retainers of the retainer assembly which have received wafers and a wafer carrier present at the wafer transfer station. 14. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 13 wherein said carrier load mechanism reorients the wafer carrier while transferring the wafer carrier between the pod loader interface and the wafer transfer station. 15. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 14 wherein said carrier load mechanism for transferring and reorienting the wafer carrier, includes an end-effector that: rotates in a first direction about a horizontal axis to engage the wafer carrier then disposed in said pod loader interface with wafers received in the wafer carrier being oriented horizontally; raises the wafer carrier; carrying the wafer carrier, rotates about the horizontal axis in a second direction that is reversed from the first direction so that wafers present in said wafer carrier become oriented vertically over the mass-transfer machine, and lowers to deposit the wafer carrier onto said mass-transfer machine. 16. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 13 wherein said elevator is U-shaped. 17. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 13 wherein the mass-transfer machine is directly coupled to said pod loader interface by a rigid plate that receives both the mass-transfer machine and the pod loader interface. 18. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 17 wherein the plate includes an indexing means for ensuring precise mechanical positioning and repositioning of the pod loader interface with respect to said mass-transfer machine so that the pod loader interface may be removed and replaced precisely in a fast and easy manner. 19. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 18 wherein the indexing means includes holes that pierce both the plate and a base plate of said pod loader interface, together with pins that are received into the holes, each pin extending between the plate and the base plate of said pod loader interface. 20. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 17 wherein the plate is received by guide rails that are coupled to the wafer transfer station, the guide rails permitting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system to slide horizontally with respect to the wafer transfer station to facilitate maintenance or repair thereof. 21. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 20 further comprising adjusting means disposed between the plate and the wafer transfer station for raising, lowering and tilting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system with respect to the wafer transfer station. 22. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 21 wherein the adjusting means includes jack screws that are coupled to the plate. 23. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 11 further comprising adjusting means disposed between the plate and the wafer transfer station for raising, lowering and tilting the pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system with respect to the wafer transfer station. 24. The pod-load/unload and mass-transfer system of claim 23 wherein the adjusting means includes jack screws that are coupled to the plate. 