A system and method of preloading linear motion bearings arranged to move between two orthogonal surfaces of each of a rail and an overlapping carriage, wherein a permanent magnet linear electric motor with a high attractive force between the coils and the magnets is inclined at an acute angle to the surfaces, such that the attractive force creates a preload force on each of the bearings; the magnet being fixed as a track in a trough along the rail, and the coils being recessed in a groove in the inner top surface of the carriage, both oriented at said acute angle, and providing through such preloading, a high degree of stiffness and load capacity in all degrees of freedom of the carriage except in the linear direction of movement along the rail.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A linear motion carriage-rail system having longitudinally extending opposing inner planar carriage and rail surfaces between which linear motion bearings are disposed to enable the carriage to move longitudinally over the rail, the system having, in combination, a linear electric motor having a forcer coil part and a longitudinally extending magnet track part; the forcer coil part being fixed to an intermediate region of said planar carriage inner surface to move the carriage longitudinally over the rail; and with the magnet track being fixed to and intermediately longitudinally along the inner planar surface of the rail but oriented at an acute angle to the plane of the rail surface, such that the attractive force between said motor parts approximately equally preloads the bearings as the carriage is moved over the rail, wherein the inner planar carriage surface is L-shaped to provide also an orthogonal surface parallel to and overlapping the adjacent side of the rail, and between which orthogonal surface and rail side, further linear motion bearings are interposed, and wherein the motor magnet track is disposed within a longitudinal intermediate trench along the inner plane rail surface, with the track in the trench angled at said acute angle. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the linear motor attractive force preloads all said bearings, with the bearings between the first--named opposing inner planar carriage and rail surfaces controlling three degrees of motion of the carriage--vertical, pitch and roll motion--, and the bearings between the carriage orthogonal surface and said adjacent side of the rail restraining two further degrees of motion-horizontal and yaw motions of the carriage--, thereby controlling five degrees of carriage freedom. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the preloads of the bearings by the linear motor attractive force enables providing the carriage with high stiffness in said five degrees of freedom. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said acute angle is of the order of about 25 degrees. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the linear motion forcer coil part is fixed within a correspondingly angled groove at said intermediate region of said planar carriage inner surface and is there held with a gap separating it from the magnet track over which it is parallely moved as the carriage is forced along the rail. 6. A system comprised of a linear motion fixed bearing rail, a carriage movable along the rail, and linear motion bearings disposed therebetween to provide five degrees of stiffness for the carriage, and a linear electric motor having two magnetically attractive parts carried respectively by the rail and carriage and oriented with respect to the bearings such that the attractive magnetic force between the two parts of the linear electric motor acts to preload all the bearings, wherein the bearings run on three opposing carriage and rail bearing surfaces, two of which are parallel, and with the third orthogonal to the first two; and wherein the linear electric motor is oriented at an angle of about 25 degrees with respect to the parallel bearing surfaces. 7. A system comprised of a linear motion fixed bearing rail and a plurality of fluid bearings therebetween, a carriage moveable thereover, the bearings being distributed to run on three opposing carriage and rail bearing surfaces, two of which are parallel, and the third of which is orthogonal to the first two, a linear electric motor forcer, a cooperative linear electric motor magnet track, and a trench in the rail disposed at an angle to the bearing surfaces into which the linear electric motor magnet track is fastened, the motor forcer being mounted to the opposing carriage surface in a correspondingly angled groove, such that when the carriage is supported by its bearings and allowed to move along the rail, the attractive force between the motor forcer and the magnet track keeps the bearings preloaded and thus enables the carriage to move with a high degree of stiffness in five degrees of freedom, while being free to move along the rail in the remaining degree of freedom as controlled by the linear electric motor. 8. A method of preloading linear motion bearings disposed between opposing fixed and movable surfaces each comprising a pair of orthogonal planar surfaces, that comprises, positioning a permanent magnet linear electric coil motor with a high attractive force between the coils and a magnet, upon and at an acute angle incline to the planar surfaces, such that the attractive force creates a preload force on each of the bearings, wherein one of the pair of orthogonal planar surfaces comprises top and side L-shaped wall surfaces movable over the other of the pair of orthogonal planar surfaces which constitute the top surface and side surface of a rail along and over which the carriage is moved and wherein the electric motor coils are fixed inside the top carriage wall surface to move with the carriage, and the magnet extends as a track fixed to the top surface of the rail, with the track and coils tilted at said acute angle to the planar top surfaces, and wherein the track extends in a trough along the rail and the coils are recessed in the inside of the top carriage wall. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the are L-shaped surfaces provide also orthogonal planar surfaces parallel to overlapping adjacent sides of the rail, and interposing linear motion bearings therebetween. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the bearings between the opposing surfaces control three degrees of motion of--vertical, pitch and roll motion--, and the bearings between the orthogonal surface and said side of the rail restraining two further degrees of motion--horizontal and yaw motions--, thereby controlling five degrees of freedom. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein a linear motor attractive force preloads all the bearings providing high stiffness in said five degrees of freedom. 