A method and apparatus for detection of a particular material, such as photo-resist material, on a sample surface. A narrow beam of light is projected onto the sample surface and the fluoresced and/or reflected light intensity at a particular wavelength band is measured by a light detector. The light intensity is converted to a numerical value and transmitted electronically to a logic circuit which determines the proper disposition of the sample. The logic circuit controls a sample-handling robotic device which sequentially transfers samples to and from a stage for testing and subsequent disposition. The method is particularly useful for detecting photo-resist material on the surface of a semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining the presence of a material on a substrate, comprising: a stage for positioning a substrate; a primary source of high energy light; a first optical apparatus for forming a beam of said high energy light and directing the high energy light beam to a surface location of said substrate, said first optical apparatus including a filter cube comprising a plurality of dichroic mirrors, each of said plurality of dichroic mirrors having different reflectance properties, and a plurality of selectable light paths; a second optical apparatus for collecting fluoresced and/or reflected light from said surface location as a secondary light beam and directing said secondary light beam through a band pass filter; a light intensity sensing apparatus for receiving said filtered secondary light beam and measuring the intensity thereof; means for generating an electronic signal representative of said measured light intensity; a logic circuit for processing said electronic signal; and an automated substrate handling apparatus for moving said substrate to and from said stage. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of offstage sites positioned for selective movement of said substrate thereto from said stage by said automated substrate handling apparatus dependent upon the light intensity measurement thereof. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said stage is movable for positioning said substrate at a plurality of measurement sites. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said logic circuit comprisers a computer programmed to receive and record said light intensity measurement, instruct said stage to move for changing the plurality of measurement sites on said substrate, and instruct said automated substrate handling apparatus to move said substrate to and from said stage. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first optical apparatus comprises at least one lens and at least one primary band pass filter for restricting said beam of high energy light to a predetermined wavelength band. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said at least one primary band pass filter comprises an excitation filter for passing radiation which induces fluorescence in said material. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said at least one primary band pass filter is configured to pass light wavelengths which are substantially absorbed by said material and substantially reflected by said substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said at least one primary band pass filter is configured to pass light wavelengths which are substantially reflected by said material and substantially absorbed by said substrate. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said high energy light source comprises a mercury lamp. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said high energy light source comprises a xenon lamp. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a silicon diode sensor producing a light intensity measurement. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a power meter for converting the light intensity measurement into a digital form. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light intensity sensing apparatus comprises a photo-multiplier tube with output signal means. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a resist-stripping chamber enclosing said stage. 