A method in which a temperature gradient is generated across a "gradient" block, and an apparatus comprising a block across which a temperature gradient can be generated. By setting up such a gradient, multiple reaction mixtures held in wells on the gradient block can be simultaneously run at temperatures which differ only slightly, thereby permitting an optimum temperature for the reaction to be quickly identified. In a preferred embodiment the gradient block is integrated into a thermal cycler used for nucleic acid amplification reactions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for simultaneously reacting a plurality of reaction mixtures in an apparatus including a temperature-gradient block and a uniform-temperature block, said method comprising the steps of: generating a temperature gradient between opposing end portions of the temperature-gradient block; placing reaction mixtures in a plurality of wells in the temperature-gradient block; generating uniform temperatures in the uniform-temperature block; and placing the reaction mixtures in a plurality of wells in the uniform-temperature block. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of generating a temperature gradient is performed before the reaction mixtures are placed in the temperature-gradient block. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of placing reaction mixtures in the temperature-gradient block is performed before the step of placing reaction mixtures in the uniform-temperature block. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of placing reaction mixtures in the temperature-gradient block is performed after the step of placing reaction mixtures in the uniform-temperature block. 5. An apparatus for generating a temperature gradient across a heat-conducting block comprising: a reaction mixture holder including a heat-conducting block block having top and bottom portions, first and second opposing end portions; means for heating the first opposing end portion of the heat-conducting block; means for cooling the second opposing end portion of the heat-conducting block; means for heating the bottom portion or the heat-conducting block; and a plurality of wells formed in the top portion of the heat-conducting block. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said plurality of wells in said heat-conducting block are spaced across said top portion in parallel, aligned rows. 7. An apparatus for performing reactions comprising: a temperature-gradient block having first and second opposing end portions; means for generating a temperature gradient between the first and second opposing end portions of the temperature-gradient block; a uniform-temperature block; and means for heating the uniform-temperature block. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the temperature-gradient block is composed of brass. 9. An apparatus according to claim 7 further comprising a means for heating a bottom portion of the temperature-gradient block. 10. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said apparatus further comprises robot arm means, controlled by robot arm control means, for moving reaction mixtures between the temperature-gradient block and the uniform-temperature block. 11. A method for simultaneously reacting a plurality of reaction mixtures comprising the steps of: applying a temperature gradient to the reaction mixtures during one phase of a reaction by simultaneously applying different temperatures to the reaction mixtures; and applying a uniform temperature to the reaction mixtures during another phase of the reaction. 12. A method according to claim 11 further comprising the step of analyzing the results of the reaction according to the different temperatures applied to the reaction mixtures to determine an optimum temperature for said one phase of the reaction. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein the reaction is a polymerase chain reaction. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a denaturing step of the polymerase chain reaction. 15. A method according to claim 13 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an annealing step of the polymerase chain reaction. 16. A method according to claim 13 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an extension reaction step of the polymerase chain reaction. 17. A method according to claim 11 wherein the reaction is a polymerase chain reaction. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a denaturing step of the polymerase chain reaction. 19. A method according to claim 17 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an annealing step of the polymerase chain reaction. 20. A method according to claim 17 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an extension reaction step of the polymerase chain reaction. 21. A method according to claim 11 wherein the reaction is a ligase chain reaction. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a high temperature melting step of the ligase chain reaction. 23. A method according to claim 21 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a cooling step of the ligase chain reaction. 24. A method for simultaneously reacting a plurality of reaction mixtures comprising the steps of: generating a temperature gradient across a gradient block; applying a temperature gradient to the reaction mixtures during one phase of a reaction by bringing the reaction mixtures into thermal contact with the gradient block; and applying a uniform temperature to the reaction mixtures during another phase of the reaction. 25. A method according to claim 24 further comprising the step of analyzing the results of the reaction according to the different temperatures applied to the reaction mixtures to determine an optimum temperature for said one phase of the reaction. 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein the reaction is a polymerase chain reaction. 27. A method according to claim 26 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a denaturing step of the polymerase chain reaction. 28. A method according to claim 26 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an annealing step of a polymerase chain reaction. 29. A method according to claim 26 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an extension reaction step of a polymerase chain reaction. 30. A method according to claim 24 wherein the reaction is a polymerase chain reaction. 31. A method according to claim 30 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a denaturing step of the polymerase chain reaction. 32. A method according to claim 30 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an annealing step of a polymerase chain reaction. 33. A method according to claim 30 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to an extension reaction step of a polymerase chain reaction. 34. A method according to claim 24 wherein the reaction is a ligate chain reaction. 35. A method according to claim 34 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a high temperature melting step of the ligase chain reaction. 36. A method according to claim 34 wherein said step of applying a temperature gradient is applied to a cooling step of the ligase chain reaction. 