A shuttle system for transferring a semiconductor wafer from a receiving station to a horizontal-oriented head drive of a wafer polishing machine includes a linear horizontal rail extending from a first position to a second position; a wafer transfer assembly adjacent to the first position; a wafer conveying assembly movable along the rail from adjacent the first position to adjacent the second position; and wherein the wafer conveying assembly includes a vertically movable and radially movable gripper for gripping peripheral edges of a wafer to be transferred and conveyed from the transfer assembly to the head drive. The transfer assembly includes a transfer receiver for receiving an unpolished wafer from a cassette which receiver is movable to the second position where the gripper is movable to edge-grip the received unpolished wafer. The gripper includes a series of radially movable segments having edge-contacting fingers depending therefrom for gripping the wafer edges. A polished wafer is conveyed by the gripper along the rail to a rinsing bath including an unloading ring movable up and down in the bath.
Claims We claim: 1. A shuttle system for transferring a semiconductor wafer from a receiving station to a horizontal-oriented head drive of a wafer polishing machine comprising: a linear horizontal rail extending from a first position to a second position; a wafer transfer assembly adjacent to said first position; a wafer conveying assembly movable along said rail from adjacent the first position to adjacent the second position; and wherein said wafer conveying assembly includes a movable gripper for gripping peripheral edges of a wafer to be transferred and conveyed from the transfer assembly to the head drive adjacent to the second position, said gripper being movable in a vertical direction and radially movable in a direction perpendicular to and concentric with the vertical direction. 2. The shuttle system of claim 1 wherein said transfer assembly includes a transfer receiver for receiving an unpolished wafer; and wherein said transfer receiver is positioned for the gripper to edge-grip the unpolished wafer. 3. The shuttle system of claim 2 wherein said gripper includes a series of radially movable segments having edge-contacting fingers depending therefrom, said gripper including a vertical linear drive for positioning the segments over the unpolished wafer in the transfer receiver such that the fingers are laterally spaced from the peripheral edge of the unpolished wafer and wherein the segments are radially movable inwardly so that the fingers grasp the unpolished wafer at spaced positions on the wafer peripheral edges; and wherein the gripper lifts the unpolished wafer upwardly from the transfer receiver and conveys the gripped unpolished wafer and gripper along said rail to the head drive. 4. The shuttle system of claim 3 wherein the gripper segments and fingers are moved radially outward at the head drive position to place the unpolished wafer horizontally on the head drive. 5. The shuttle system of claim 4 wherein said gripper is moved from along said rail away from the second position to allow pivoting of the head drive and of an unpolished wafer on the head drive to a vertical position in the polishing machine for wafer polishing and wherein said gripper is returnable to said second position following wafer polishing and repivoting of the head drive to a horizontal-orientation, said gripper being operable to grasp and convey a polished wafer along said rail toward the first position. 6. The shuttle system of claim 5 further including a wafer bath and wafer-dip mechanism adjacent to said first position and wherein said gripper is positionable to transfer a polished wafer to the wafer-dip mechanism for dipping the polished wafer into and out of the bath to remove contaminants from the polished wafer. 7. The shuttle system of claim 6 wherein said wafer-dip mechanism includes an unloading ring extendable into said bath and an air pressure drive to move said unloading ring up and down in the bath. 8. The shuttle system of claim 7 further including a pivot arm fixed to said transfer receiver to pivot said transfer receiver to a position above said unloading ring. 9. The shuttle system of claim 6 further including a water spray to enhance cleaning of the polished wafer. 10. The shuttle system of claim 2 wherein said transfer receiver is an open-ended ring. 