A system which performs a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, possibly involving differing types of tissues and differing process steps, comprising a robotic arm, which may move the different tissue samples among a plurality of processing stations, and a processor, which may select the next tissue sample to move, when to move it, and where to move it to. The processor may direct the robotic arm to interleave the differing process steps. The processor may select a tissue sample to be moved in response to timing information about the procedures, which may specify the start time and end time of each process step. The specified times may be exact or may be a range of times. The processor may determine the exact time for a step by generating a possible sequence of steps and examining that sequence for conflicts, adjusting that sequence in response to those steps with a specified range of times, and iterating the calculation over a plurality of possible sequences. The processor may comprise a graphic interface by which an operator may specify the steps of a procedure. A display of grid locations may comprise symbols for the workstations, which an operator may identify with a pointing device such as a mouse. The operator may create a list of process steps for a procedure by selecting a sequence of workstations with the mouse, and associating timing or other information for each process step with the selected workstation. The operator may also choose to select a list of stored process steps for a procedure.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; and a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having, means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures, a display screen, means for identifying a symbol shown on said display screen in response to a selection from an operator, means for associating a process step with said symbol, and means for recording an ordered sequence of said process steps. 2. A system as in claim 1, wherein said processing stations are disposed in a set of grid locations, and wherein said system comprises a bench robot with a rotatable tower and with sufficient degrees of freedom that it is able to reach each of the grid locations with suitable movement. 3. A system as in claim 1, wherein said processing stations comprise workstations for performing individual steps of the analysis procedures. 4. A system as in claim 1, wherein at least one said processing station comprises one of the group: a bioassay workstation, a biomedical workstation, a chemical process workstation. 5. A system as in claim 1, wherein said processor comprises a memory for storing a start time and an end time for each said process step. 6. A system as in claim 1, wherein said processor comprises a memory for storing timing information for each said process step, said timing information comprising a range of times at which said process step may be in a predetermined state. 7. A system as in claim 1, wherein said processor comprises means for selecting said sample to be moved in response to timing information about said procedures. 8. A system as in claim 1, wherein said processor comprises a memory for storing timing information for each said process step, said timing information comprising a range of times at which said process step may be in a predetermined state; and means for determining an exact time to start each said process step in a first said procedure in response to timing information for at least one process step in a second said procedure. 9. A system as in claim 8, wherein said means for determining comprises means for generating a possible sequence of process steps; means for examining said possible sequence for possible conflicts; and means for altering said possible sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 10. A system as in claim 8, wherein said means for determining comprises means for generating a possible sequence of process steps; means for examining said possible sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value; means for advancing said known time value from a beginning of said possible sequence to an end of said possible sequence; means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started, for selecting an exact time to start said first process step; and means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started, for backtracking said known time value and altering said possible sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict. 11. A system as in claim 8, wherein said processor comprises means for generating a plurality of possible sequences of process steps; means for evaluating each said possible sequence for total expected time; and means for selecting one said possible sequence with a desired total expected time, so as to minimize a total time required to complete said procedures. 12. A system as in claim 1, wherein said means for identifying comprises a pointing device. 13. A system as in claim 1, comprising means for receiving information from said operator about the process step associated with said symbol. 14. A robotic system to transport a plurality of samples, each sample undergoing a test procedure having a plurality of steps, to a plurality of work stations each associated with one of said steps wherein said samples are undergoing said test procedures substantially simultaneously comprising: a. a multi axis robotic device means having a predetermined working range area, b. a work table coextensive with said working range area, c. a plurality of work modules having defined physical dimensions and each associated with one of said steps disposed at identifiable locations on said work table, d. computer means for controlling said robotic device, e. means for inputting to said computer the physical dimensions and location on said work table of said work modules, f. means for inputting to said computer a sequence of said steps associated with each of said tests, each of said steps having a time of performance during which said sample must be located at the step's associated work station, said performance being completed at a step end time, g. means associated with said robotic means for coupling to a sample and capable of holding said sample during transportation between steps, h. means for scheduling said robotic device to move a sample sequentially to the work stations associated with the test said sample is undergoing and deposit said sample at said work station until said step end time is reached, i. means for scheduling the movement of each sample after the first step in the test so that it occurs while the other samples are disposed in their work stations, j. means for causing said robotic device to transport said samples responsive to said end times; and k. means for optimizing the scheduling of said device, said means for optimizing including iteration means to produce multiple different schedules, means for providing statistical information concerning the time distribution such iteration should result in, and means for halting said iteration and accepting one of the schedules that comes close to the optimum schedule based on said statistical distribution. 15. Computer means to control the scheduling of multiple tests, each comprising several distinct steps, each step having a starting time and a completion time associated therewith comprising: a. means for determining a starting time and completion time for each of the steps in the multiple tests, b. means for scheduling the steps of said multiple tests in a single time sequence arrangement interleaving the steps of said tests, c. means for detecting time conflicts of interfering starting and completion times of said interleaved steps, d. means for resolving said time conflicts by adjusting the starting and completion times of one or more of said steps, e. means for displaying information on a display screen, f. means for identifying a symbol shown on said display screen in response to a selection from an operator, g. means for associating a process step with said symbol, and h. means for recording an ordered sequence of said process step. 