A wafer fabrication system and method improves the structural integrity of capacitor structures. The wafer fabrication system contains an etching area and a deposition area which are connected with a common vacuum. In the etching area, the support material surrounding the bottom electrode of a stacked capacitor is removed with vapor etching techniques. The exposed bottom electrode of the stacked capacitor is then robotically transferred within the common vacuum to the deposition area where a dielectric layer is applied to the exposed bottom electrode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for fabricating a conductive structure comprising the acts of: providing an etching area and a deposition area within a semiconductor fabrication device; providing a semiconductor substrate in said etching area, said semiconductor substrate having a conductive structure formed within a sacrificial mould, wherein said sacrificial mould is around and within at least a portion of said conductive structure so as to reduce any vibrations applied to said conductive structure; vapor etching said sacrificial mould in said etching area to expose a portion of said conductive structure; and transferring said semiconductor substrate to said deposition area while subjecting said semiconductor substrate to a controlled pressure so as to reduce any oxidation applied to said semiconductor substrate. 2. The process of claim 1 further comprising the act of depositing a layer of dielectric material on said exposed portion of said conductive structure. 3. The process of claim 2 further comprising the act of depositing a conductive layer on said dielectric layer. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said etching area and said deposition area are part of an in-situ semiconductor fabrication device. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said conductive structure is an electrode in a stacked capacitor. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said conductive structure is shaped to form a cylindrical structure. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said conductive structure is shaped to form three-dimensional villus bars. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said transferring act transfers said substrate with a robotic device. 9. A process for fabricating a three-dimensional capacitor structure comprising the acts of: providing a semiconductor substrate having a first conductive electrode contained within a support material, wherein said support material is around and within at least a portion of said first conductive electrode so as to reduce any vibrations applied to said first conductive electrode; providing a semiconductor etching device; providing a semiconductor deposition device; providing a transfer chamber, wherein said semiconductor deposition device and said semiconductor etching device are connected to said transfer chamber, and wherein said transfer chamber maintains a vacuum; etching said support material in said semiconductor etching device to expose a portion of said first conductive electrode; and robotically transferring within said transfer chamber, said semiconductor substrate from said semiconductor etching device to said semiconductor deposition device, so as to reduce any oxidation applied to said semiconductor substrate. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein said conductive electrode forms a three-dimensional stacked capacitor. 11. The process of claim 9 further comprising the act of depositing a layer of material on said conductive electrode with said semiconductor deposition device. 12. The process of claim 11 wherein said act of depositing deposits a layer of dielectric material on said conductive electrode. 13. The process of claim 12 further comprising the act of depositing a second electrode on said layer of dielectric material. 14. A process for fabricating a conductive structure comprising the acts of: providing a semiconductor substrate having a conductive structure, wherein said conductive structure has an inside and an outside; providing a structural layer supporting the outside of said conductive structure; providing a filler layer supporting the inside of said conductive structure; providing an etching area and a deposition area within a semiconductor fabrication device; transferring said semiconductor substrate into said etching area, wherein the structural layer and the filler layer reduce vibrations applied to the semiconductor substrate; vapor etching said structural layer and said filler layer in said etching area to expose the inside and the outside of said conductive structure; transferring said semiconductor substrate to said deposition area while subjecting said semiconductor substrate to a controlled pressure. 15. A process for fabricating a conductive structure, comprising the acts of: providing an etching area and a deposition area; and reducing vibrational stress and oxidation on a semiconductor substrate by the acts of: providing a supporting structure on an inside and outside of a conductive structure of said semiconductor substrate; transferring said semiconductor substrate into said etching area; vapor etching said supporting structure to expose the inside and outside of said conductive structure; maintaining a controlled pressure during a mechanical transfer of said semiconductor substrate from the etching area to the deposition area; providing at least one additional supporting layer on said conductive structure; and transferring said semiconductor substrate from said deposition area. 16. The process of claim 15 wherein the conductive structure comprises at least two concentric cylinders. 17. The process of claim 16 further comprising the act of providing a side wall spacer between said concentric cylinders and vapor etching said side wall spacer to expose the interior of the concentric cylinders. 