A system and method for characterizing and repairing intelligent systems such as networks or other intelligent machines creates a self-learned error recovery plan. As the system evolves or interacts with the environment, and encounters errors which force it to take action to overcome the error, an error recovery plan is generated and stored in a module referred to as an experience node. The experience node records error conditions leading to the error and paths to recovery. The sum of the experience nodes becomes the intelligent system's experience map, and can be used both to improve future recovery and to characterize the machine or network's global behavior and identify specific machines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for characterizing an intelligent system, comprising: a processor unit, configured to control the intelligent system to perform predetermined tasks by executing a set of atomic actions; and an error recovery unit, connected to the processor unit and detecting an error state of the intelligent system, and upon the detection recording an error trigger causing the error state, the error recovery unit building an experience node storing recovery information comprising the error state, corresponding error trigger and an atomic recovery action to correct the error state. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the recovery information comprises transition paths from the error state to a non-error state. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the recovery information comprises a frequency of the error state. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the recovery information comprises a frequency of the atomic recovery action. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein there is a one-to-one correspondence between atomic actions and experience nodes of the system. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the error recovery unit comprises an experience map for the intelligent system, the experience map comprising all experience nodes generated by the error recovery unit. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the intelligent system is a communications network, and the atomic actions are finite states of the network. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the intelligent system is a robot, and the atomic actions are movement steps or processing steps of the robot. 9. The system of claim 6, further comprising a communication interface, the experience nodes of the experience map being communicated to other intelligent systems via the communication interface. 10. The system of claim 6, wherein the error recovery unit continuously monitors the intelligent system, and updates the experience map according to newly encountered errors. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the intelligent system is a neural network. 12. A method for characterizing an intelligent system, comprising the steps of: controlling the intelligent system to perform predetermined tasks by executing a set of atomic actions; and detecting an error state of the intelligent system, and upon the detection-recording an error trigger causing the error state, and building an experience node storing recovery information comprising the error state, corresponding error trigger and an atomic recovery action to correct the error state. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the recovery information comprises transition paths from the error state to a non-error state. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the recovery information comprises a frequency of the error state. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the recovery information comprises a frequency of the atomic recovery action. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein there is a one-to-one correspondence between atomic actions and experience nodes of the intelligent system. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of generating an experience map for the intelligent system, the experience map comprising all experience nodes generated by the error recovery unit. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the intelligent system is a communications network, and the atomic actions are finite states of the network. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the intelligent system is a robot, and the atomic actions are movement steps or processing steps of the robot. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of communicating the experience nodes of the experience map to other intelligent systems. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of continuously monitoring the intelligent system, and updating the experience map according to newly encountered errors. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein the intelligent system is a neural network. 