A method and apparatus for automatically sorting and feeding flat articles. The method stacks flat articles into cartridges in output compartments of a sorting machine, robotically transfers filled cartridges from the output compartments of a sorting machine to a buffer shelf; and from the buffer shelf to a docking station of a cartridge unloader and automatic feeder to the input of the sorting machine, and for transferring empty cartridges from the docking station to either the buffer or the output compartments of the sorter.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sorting a stack of flat articles comprising the steps of: positioning a cartridge supporting the stack of flat articles into a docking station; transferring the stack of flat articles from the cartridge positioned on the docking station to a queuing station; aligning the stack of flat articles by moving each of the flat articles from the queuing station in a feed direction along an edger station; and sorting each of the flat articles exiting the edger station into a selected one of a plurality of output compartments, each output compartment containing a predetermined cartridge for receiving sorted flat articles. 2. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 1 further comprising a step of sensing a docking of the predetermined cartridge onto the output compartment before transporting said flat articles thereto. 3. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the quantity of the flat articles entering the predetermined cartridge for determining when to remove the predetermined cartridge from the output compartment; and disabling the step of sorting the flat articles to the predetermined cartridge when a prespecified quantity of the flat articles have entered the predetermined cartridge. 4. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 3 further comprising the step of removing the predetermined cartridge from the output compartment in response to disabling the sorting of the flat articles to the predetermined cartridge. 5. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 4 further comprising the step of placing the predetermined cartridge removed from the output compartment into a buffer shelf. 6. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 1 wherein the step of sorting further includes a step of reading a bar code located on each of the flat articles to determine the predetermined cartridge in which to sort each flat article. 7. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 1 further comprises a step of removing the cartridge from the docking station with a robot handler. 8. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 1 where the step of transferring the stack of flat articles further comprises the steps of: opening a door of the cartridge following support of the stack of flat articles; extending a moveable front stack support to a front of the stack of flat articles to provide support for said stack of articles; removing a stack support from a position supporting the stack of flat articles in response to extending the moveable front stack support in the front of the stack of flat articles; positioning a moveable pusher into the cartridge to engage a back of the stack of flat articles; and pushing the stack of flat articles from the cartridge while supporting the front thereof and retaining the stack of flat articles between said moveable front stack support and the moveable pusher. 9. The method for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 1 where the step of aligning the stack of flat articles further comprises the steps of: positioning said flat articles between a pair of tabs; moving the pair of tabs in the feed direction; rotating a first roller positioned below said flat articles to position a side edge of each flat article in contact with a back wall of the edger station; and rocking said pair of tabs longitudinally back and forth along a vertical axis of the edger station to adjust a bottom edge of each flat article to be substantially flush to one another. 10. The method of sorting the flat articles in accordance with claim 9 further comprises a step of rotating a second roller adjacent the side edge of the flat articles to downwardly position the bottom edge thereof. 11. The method in accordance with claim 9 wherein the step of rocking said pair of tabs further comprises the step of contacting a roller cam follower mounted to each tab with a wavy cam guide. 12. A method for sorting a plurality of letter mail comprising the steps of: positioning a cartridge supporting the letter mail onto a docking station; transferring the letter mail from the cartridge positioned on the docking station to a queuing station; aligning the letter mail by moving the letter mail from the queuing station in a feed direction along an edger station; sorting each of the letter mail exiting the edger station into a selected one of a plurality of output compartments, each output compartment containing a predetermined cartridge for receiving sorted flat articles; monitoring the quantity of the letter mail entering the predetermined cartridge for determining when to remove the predetermined cartridge from the output compartment; disabling the step of sorting the letter mail to a predetermined cartridge when a prespecified quantity of the letter mail have entered the predetermined cartridge; and removing the predetermined cartridge from the output compartment in response to disabling the sorting of the letter mail to the predetermined cartridge. 13. The method for sorting a plurality of letter mail in accordance with claim 12 where the step of transferring the letter mail further comprises the steps of: opening a door of the cartridge following support of the letter mail; extending a moveable front stack support to a front of the letter mail to provide support for said letter mail; removing a stack support from a position supporting the letter mail in response to extending the moveable front stack support in the front of the letter mail; positioning a moveable pusher into the cartridge to engage a back of the letter mail; and pushing the letter mail from the cartridge while supporting the front thereof and retaining the letter mail between said moveable front stack support and the moveable pusher. 14. The method for sorting a plurality of letter mail in accordance with claim 12 where the step of aligning the letter mail further comprises the steps of: positioning said flat letter mail between a pair of tabs; moving the pair of tabs in the feed direction; rotating a first roller positioned below said letter mail to position a side edge of each flat article in contact with a back wall of the edger station; rocking said pair of tabs longitudinally back and forth along a vertical axis of the edger station to adjust a bottom edge of the letter mail to be substantially flush to one another, said rocking occurs by engaging a wavy cam guide to a roller cam follower mounted to each tab; and rotating a second roller adjacent the side edge of the flat article to downwardly position the bottom edge thereof. 15. A system for sorting a stack of flat articles comprising: a carriage assembly for inserting or extracting a cartridge from an article processing machine; said article processing machine further comprises: a docking station for receiving the cartridge supporting the flat articles from the carriage assembly; a queuing station adjacent the docking station for receiving the flat articles transferred from the cartridge; an edger station adjacent the queuing station for aligning the flat articles received from the queuing station; and a sorter adjacent the edger station for sorting each of the flat articles into a selected one of a plurality of output compartments, each output compartment containing a predetermined cartridge for receiving sorted flat articles. 16. The system for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 15 further comprising a supervisory computer for controlling the operation of the system, said supervisory computer includes: means for sensing a docking of the predetermined cartridge to the output compartment to enable transportation of the flat articles thereto; means for monitoring the quantity of the flat articles entering the predetermined cartridge for determining when to remove the predetermined cartridge from the output compartment; and means for disabling the operation of the sorter when a prespecified quantity of the flat articles have entered the predetermined cartridge. 17. The system for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 16 wherein the supervisory computer further includes means for reading and interpreting a bar code located on each flat article to determine the predetermined cartridge in which to sort each flat article. 18. The system for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 15 further comprising a buffer shelf for receiving the predetermined cartridge removed from the output compartment by the carriage assembly. 19. The system for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 15 wherein said carriage assembly further includes: a support platform; an extending arm movably attached to the support platform, said extending arm having an extended position for insertion of the cartridge into the article processing machine and a retracted position for extraction of the cartridge from the article processing machine; and a cartridge holder pivotally connected to an end of the extending arm, said cartridge holder having an engaged position for securing the predetermined cartridge and a disengaged position for releasing the predetermined cartridge. 20. The system for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 19 wherein the carriage assembly further includes: a drive for rotatably supporting said support platform about a horizontal axis; an actuator coupled to the support platform and having an extended position and a retracted position, said actuator in the extended position engages and enables the sorter to load articles into the predetermined cartridge and said actuator in the retracted position configures the sorter such that articles from the sorter are not loaded into the predetermined cartridge. 21. The system for sorting a stack of flat articles in accordance with claim 15 wherein the docking station and the cartridge further includes: a stack support of said cartridge for supporting a front of the stack of flat articles in the cartridge; a cam and cam follower for opening a door of said cartridge during insertion of said cartridge into the docking station, and for closing said door during removal of said cartridge from the docking station; a front stack holder for supporting the front of the stack of flat articles during removal thereof from said cartridge; said stack support moved from a position supporting the stack of flat articles in the cartridge in response to positioning the front stack holder at the front of the stack of flat articles; a moveable pusher positioned behind the stack of flat articles in the cartridge; and a rear finger carriage for longitudinally moving said moveable pusher to transport the stack of flat articles from said cartridge through the open door. 22. A mail sorting system for handling a plurality of letter mail comprising: a carriage assembly for inserting or extracting a mail cartridge from an mail processing machine; said mail processing machine further comprises: a docking station for receiving the mail cartridge supporting the letter mail from the carriage assembly; a queuing station adjacent the docking station for receiving the letter mail transferred from the mail cartridge; an edger station adjacent the queuing station for aligning the letter mail received from the queuing station; a sorter adjacent the edger station for sorting each piece of the letter mail into a selected one of a plurality of output compartments, each output compartment containing a predetermined mail cartridge for receiving sorted letter mail; a supervisory computer for controlling the operation of the mail sorting system; and a buffer shelf for receiving the predetermined mail cartridge removed from the output compartment by the carriage assembly. 23. The mail sorting system for handling a plurality of letter mail in accordance with claim 22 wherein the supervisory computer includes: means for sensing a docking of the predetermined mail cartridge to the output compartment to enable transportation of the letter mail thereto; means for monitoring the quantity of the letter mail entering the predetermined mail cartridge for determining when to remove the predetermined mail cartridge from the output compartment; and means for disabling the operation of the sorter when a prespecified quantity of letter mail entered the predetermined mail cartridge. 24. The mail sorting system for handling a plurality of letter mail in accordance with claim 22 wherein said carriage assembly further includes: a support platform; an extending arm movably attached to the support platform, said extending arm having an extended position for insertion of the predetermined mail cartridge into the mail processing machine and a retracted position for extraction of the predetermined mail cartridge from the mail processing machine; and a cartridge holder pivotally connected to an end of the extending arm, said cartridge holder having an engaged position for securing the predetermined mail cartridge and a disengaged position for releasing the predetermined mail cartridge. 