An apparatus creating a processing cell for laser peening operations includes an enclosure which substantially defines a work cell or processing cell with a transparent overlay material applicator located therein. A cleaning system is utilized that may include a vapor exhaust, liquid removal system, and a gas or air supply. A vapor exhaust system is connected to the enclosure for removing vapor from within the processing cell. A liquid removal system is connected to the enclosure for removing liquid from the processing cell. A gas or air supply is connected to the enclosure to flood the enclosure with gas or air to flush airborne debris therefrom. A workpiece manipulator may be disposed or operate within the cell for moving workpieces therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing cell for laser peening, said cell comprising: an enclosure that substantially defines the processing cell, said enclosure containing a beam path for laser peening a contained workpiece; a transparent overlay material applicator disposed within said enclosure; and a liquid removal system connected to said enclosure for removing liquid from said enclosure, said liquid removal system connected to said transparent overlay material applicator and communicates at least some of the liquid removed from the enclosure to said transparent overlay material applicator. 2. A processing cell for laser peening, said cell comprising: an enclosure that substantially defines the processing cell, said enclosure includes a port for entry of a laser beam; a transparent overlay material applicator disposed within said enclosure; and an air knife operationally oriented with said port to inhibit transparent overlay material from passing through said port. 3. A processing cell for laser peening, said cell comprising: an enclosure that substantially defines the processing cell; a transparent overlay material applicator disposed within said enclosure; and a liquid removal system connected to said enclosure for removing liquid from the processing cell, said liquid removal system connected to said transparent overlay material applicator and communicates at least some of the liquid removed from the enclosure to said transparent overlay material applicator. 4. A processing cell for laser peening, said cell comprising: an enclosure that substantially defines the processing cell; a transparent overlay material applicator disposed within said enclosure; a monitoring device disposed within said enclosure for monitoring a parameter of a laser peening process; and an air knife operationally connected to said monitoring device. 