An apparatus having short range motion for gripping and releasing an object utilizes a programmable stepper motor for controlling various short stroke motions of the gripper. Gears associated with each of the at least one gripper jaws supported on a carrier shaft engage a common ring gear that is driven by drive means including the stepper motor which imparts synchronous motion of the grippers for opening and closing about the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus having short range motion for gripping and releasing an object, said apparatus comprising: a frame; a pair of cooperating jaw members for engaging and gripping an object, said jaw members being supported on corresponding carriers, each of said corresponding carriers having a threaded end portion, said carriers being mounted for translational movement in said frame; drive means operably associated with said jaw members for actuating said jaw members to move for opening and closing about said object, said drive means comprising a stepper motor having an output shaft having a first threaded end and a second, oppositely threaded end, wherein said first threaded end threadably connects with the threaded end portion of said carrier supporting one said jaw member and said second, oppositely threaded end threadably connects with the threaded end portion of the carrier supporting said other jaw member. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein each of said jaw members is mounted to said carrier by a permanent magnet arranged between said jaw member and said carrier. 3. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein a linear guide is associated with said carrier for guiding the movement of said jaw members. 4. The apparatus recited in claim 3, wherein said linear guide comprises elongated grooves formed in said frame. 5. The apparatus recited in claim 3, wherein said linear guide comprises elongated grooves formed in said carrier. 6. The apparatus recited in claims 4 or 5, wherein a plurality of rolling elements are arranged in said grooves for facilitating translational movement of said carriers relative to said frame. 7. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein a vacuum cup is arranged on an end portion of each of said jaw members, said vacuum cups being supplied with vacuum from a vacuum generating means. 8. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein said stepper motor is programmably adapted for driving the jaw members to reposition for accommodating larger and smaller objects, and wherein said stepper motor is programmably adapted for being selectively overdriven to grip and release an object within a short motion range. 9. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of said jaw members is responsive to a pneumatic actuator operably associated with said jaw member. 10. Method of gripping an object with short stroke motion, comprising the steps of: providing an object; providing a short stroke motion apparatus for gripping and releasing said object, said apparatus comprising a frame; a pair of cooperating jaw members for engaging and gripping an object, said jaw members being supported on corresponding carriers, each of said corresponding carriers having a threaded end portion, said carriers being mounted for translational movement in said frame; drive means operably associated with said jaw members for actuating said jaw members to move for opening and closing about said object, said drive means comprising a stepper motor having an output shaft having a first threaded end and a second, oppositely threaded end, wherein said first threaded end threadably connects with the threaded end portion of said carrier supporting one said jaw member and said second, oppositely threaded end threadably connects with the threaded end portion of the carrier supporting said other jaw member; moving said cooperating jaw members within reach of said object; engaging said object with said cooperating jaw members; and, securely grasping said object with said cooperating jaw members. 11. The method recited in claim 10, further comprising the step of maneuvering said object from a first position at which said object was securely gripped to a second position at which said object is subjected to independent treatment, and then releasing said object from said cooperating jaw members. 