Prophylactic devices are made in an inert atmosphere by cooling mandrels on which the devices are to be deposited, dipping the mandrels into a polymeric material in a solvent/carrier and a mold release agent, rotating the mandrels during and after the dipping, and evaporating the solvent after dipping. The apparatus includes an air lock between a section in which these functions are performed and a section located in an air atmosphere for removing the devices from the mandrels, followed by cleaning the mandrels for use in a subsequent production run for making devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for making a thin film prophylactic device comprising the steps of: providing a reservoir including polyurethane material dissolved in a tetrahydrofuran (THF) solvent as a dipping solution; dipping vertically a mandrel having the general shape of the device into said dipping solution, said mandrel having an axis of symmetry about its longitudinal axis; rotating the mandrel radially at least about its longitudinal axis while dipping, after it has been withdrawn from the reservoir, and before all the solvent has been evaporated from the film; withdrawing vertically the mandrel from the reservoir so as to deposit a film on the mandrel; and evaporating the solvent from the film. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said of rotating includes rotating said mandrel radially about its longitudinal axis selectively in clockwise and/or counterclockwise directions. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2, wherein the rotating simultaneously includes rotation about a different axis at predetermined times. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of: cooling the mandrel before it is dipped into the reservoir. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4, wherein the step of cooling is performed for providing gradual cooling. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5, wherein the step of cooling via gradual cooling is performed in a plurality of discrete steps. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising the step of: providing an inert atmosphere to lower or remove the O.sub.2 therein to prevent combustion of solvent, and to maintain a moisture free atmosphere, in which the steps of claim 1 are performed. 8. A method as set forth in claim 7, further including the steps of: controlling the concentration of solvent in the inert atmosphere to control the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 9. A method as set forth in claim 7, further including the step of controlling the flow rate of said inert atmosphere past said mandrel, to control the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 10. A method as set forth in claim 7, further including the step of controlling the temperature of the inert atmosphere to control the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 11. A method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising the step of: reducing the concentration of oxygen in the atmosphere to a safe level where the steps of dipping and evaporating are performed. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11, wherein the reduction of the concentration of oxygen is attained by introducing an inert gas. 13. A method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising the step of maintaining the viscosity of said dipping solution in the reservoir within a given range. 14. A method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising providing a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure for said dipping, withdrawing, and evaporating steps. 15. A method as set forth in claim 1, further including the step of controlling the temperature of said dipping solution, to partially control both the thickness of said film and the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 16. A method as set forth in claim 1, further including the step of controlling the viscosity of said dipping solution to control the thickness of said film deposited on said mandrel. 17. A method as set forth in claim 1, further including the step of providing an enriched atmosphere of said solvent proximate the surface of said dipping solution during said withdrawing step, to substantially reduce the rate of solvent evaporation from the film at that time. 18. A method as set forth in claim 1, further including in said withdrawing step the step of controlling the rate of withdrawal of said mandrel from said reservoir to control the thickness of said film on said mandrel. 19. A method as set forth in claim 1, further including in said dipping step the step of controlling the rate of dipping said mandrel into said dipping solution to minimize film defects. 20. A method as set forth in claim 1, further including the steps of: removing the film formed into a prophylactic device from said mandrel; and tumbling said prophylactic device in a tumbler until the polyurethane material substantially completes its crystallization to prevent wrinkling of said prophylactic device. 21. A method for making a thin film prophylactic device comprising the steps of: providing a reservoir containing a dipping solution of solvent based polyurethane material; maintaining the temperature of said dipping solution in a range from 50.degree. F. to 70.degree. F. cooling a mandrel to about the temperature of said dipping solution, said mandrel having the shape of the device to be formed; dipping the mandrel vertically into the dipping solution; withdrawing the mandrel vertically from the reservoir so as to form a film thereon; evaporating solvent from the film; and rotating said mandrel radially about its longitudinal axis during at least said dipping, and withdrawing steps. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein said solvent is tetrahydrofuran. 23. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein the mandrel is shaped like a condom, and its longitudinal axis is an axis of symmetry, said method further including in the step of rotating said mandrel, rotating it about its axis of symmetry selectively in clockwise and/or counterclockwise directions. 24. A method as set forth in claim 21, wherein the step of rotating said mandrel also simultaneously includes rotation about an axis other than its longitudinal axis. 25. A method as set forth in claim 21, further comprising the steps of passing a mandrel through the steps of claim 22 multiple times so as to form additional film thereon. 26. A method as set forth in claim 21, further including the step of rotating said mandrel during said evaporating step. 27. A method for fabricating a thin film prophylactic device comprising the steps of: cleaning a mandrel for the device via a cleaning solution; heating the mandrel to dry it; cooling the temperature of the mandrel to be proximate the temperature of a dipping solution; dipping the mandrel vertically in and out of said dipping solution consisting of material dissolved in a volatile and flammable solvent so as to form a film on the mandrel; rotating the mandrel radially about its longitudinal axis while in and after it is withdrawn from the dipping solution; evaporating the solvent from the film; and removing the film from the mandrel. 28. A method as set forth in claim 27, wherein: the steps of cleaning, drying the mandrel and removing the film from it are performed in an air atmosphere; and the steps of cooling the temperature of the mandrel, dipping it in and out of the reservoir and evaporating solvent from the film are performed in an atmosphere containing safe concentrations of oxygen and solvent by introduction of an inert gas so as to expel sufficient oxygen and solvent vapor to prevent ignition of the solvent. 29. A method as set forth in claim 28, further comprising the step of recovering solvent from that which is expelled. 30. A method as set forth in claim 28, further comprising the steps of: connecting the mandrel to a source of reference voltage; and applying powder having an opposite electrical charge to the electrical charge on said mandrel to the film. 31. A method as set forth in claim 30, wherein the mandrel consists of electrically nonconductive material, and is made electrically conductive by coating it with electrically conductive material and applying said source of reference voltage to the conductive material. 32. A method for making a thin film prophylactic device comprising the steps of: providing a reservoir including a solvent/carrier and polymeric material as a dipping solution; vertically dipping a mandrel having the general shape of the device into said dipping solution; vertically withdrawing the mandrel from the reservoir so as to deposit a film on the mandrel; evaporating the solvent from the film to dry the film; and rotating the mandrel radially about its longitudinal axis while dipping, after it has been withdrawn from the reservoir, and before all the solvent has been evaporated from the film. 33. A method as set forth in claim 32, wherein the mandrel has an axis of symmetry about its longitudinal axis, and the rotating is about said axis selectively in clockwise and/or counterclockwise directions. 34. A method as set forth in claim 33, wherein the rotating is also about a different axis. 35. A method as set forth in claim 32 further comprising the step of: cooling the mandrel before it is dipped into the reservoir. 36. A method as set forth in claim 35, wherein the step of cooling is performed for providing gradual cooling. 37. A method as set forth in claim 36, wherein the step of cooling via gradual cooling is performed in a plurality of discrete steps. 38. A method as set forth in claim 32, further comprising the step of: preventing an explosive mixture of solvent fumes and oxygen by providing an inert atmosphere in which the steps of claim 32 are performed for volatile solvents. 39. A method as set forth in claim 38, further including the steps of: controlling the concentration of solvent in the inert atmosphere to control the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 40. A method as set forth in claim 38, further including the step of controlling the flow rate of said inert atmosphere past said mandrel, to control the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 41. A method as set forth in claim 38, further including the step of controlling the temperature of the inert atmosphere to control the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 42. A method as set forth in claim 32, further comprising the step of: reducing the concentration of oxygen in the atmosphere to a safe level to prevent ignition of solvent where the steps of dipping and evaporating are performed for volatile solvents. 43. A method as set forth in claim 42, wherein the reduction of the concentration of oxygen is attained by introducing an inert gas. 44. A method as set forth in claim 32, further comprising the step of maintaining the viscosity of said dipping solution in the reservoir within a given range. 45. A method as set forth in claim 32, further comprising providing a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure for said dipping, withdrawing, and evaporating steps. 46. A method as set forth in claim 32, further including the step of controlling the temperature of said dipping solution, to partially control both the thickness of said film and the evaporation rate in said evaporating step. 47. A method as set forth in claim 32, further including the step of controlling the viscosity of said dipping solution to control the thickness of said film deposited on said mandrel. 48. A method as set forth in claim 32, further including the step of providing an enriched atmosphere of said solvent/carrier proximate the surface of said dipping solution during said withdrawing step, to substantially reduce the rate of solvent/carrier evaporation from the film at that time. 49. A method as set forth in claim 32, further including in said withdrawing step the step of controlling the rate of withdrawal of said mandrel from said reservoir to control the thickness of said film on said mandrel. 50. A method as set forth in claim 32, further including in said dipping step the step of controlling the rate of dipping said mandrel into said dipping solution to minimize film defects. 51. A method as set forth in claim 32, further including the steps of: removing the film formed into a prophylactic device from said mandrel; and tumbling said prophylactic device in a tumbler until the polymeric material substantially completes its crystallization to prevent wrinkling of said prophylactic device. 52. A method for making a thin film prophylactic device comprising the steps of: forming a mandrel consisting of glass to have the shape of the device that is to be formed; providing a reservoir of a dipping solution consisting of a solvent/carrier based polymeric material; maintaining the dipping solution at a desired temperature; maintaining the mandrel at a temperature close to said desired temperature for preventing cracking of said mandrel when dipped into said dipping solution; dipping the mandrel vertically into the solvent carrier based polymeric material; withdrawing the mandrel vertically from the reservoir so as to form a film thereon; evaporating solvent from the film; and rotating said mandrel radially about its longitudinal axis during said dipping, withdrawing, and evaporating steps. 53. A method as set forth in claim 51, wherein the mandrel is shaped like a condom and its longitudinal axis is an axis of symmetry, said method further including in the step of rotating said mandrel, rotating it radially about its axis of symmetry selectively in clockwise and/or counterclockwise directions. 54. A method as set forth in claim 53, wherein the step of rotating also includes simultaneous rotation of said mandrel about an axis other than radially about its axis of symmetry. 55. A method as set forth in claim 52, further comprising the steps of passing a mandrel through the steps of claim 52 multiple times so as to form additional film thereon. 56. A method for fabricating a thin film prophylactic device comprising the steps of: cleaning a mandrel for the device via a cleaning solution; heating the mandrel to dry it; cooling the mandrel to a desired temperature; vertically dipping the mandrel in and out of a reservoir of polymeric material dissolved in a solvent/carrier maintained at said desired temperature so as to form a film on the mandrel; rotating the mandrel radially about its longitudinal axis while in, during withdrawal, and after it is withdrawn from the reservoir; evaporating the solvent/carrier from the film to dry the film; and removing the film from the mandrel. 57. A method as set forth in claim 56, wherein: the steps of cleaning, drying the mandrel and removing the film from it are performed in an air atmosphere; and the steps of cooling the mandrel, dipping it in and out of the reservoir and evaporating solvent/carrier from the film are performed in an atmosphere containing safe concentrations of oxygen and solvent/carrier by introduction of an inert gas so as to expel oxygen and solvent/carrier to substantially prevent any chance of combustion of said solvent/carrier. 58. A method as set forth in claim 57, further comprising the step of recovering solvent/carrier from that which is expelled. 59. A method as set forth in claim 57, further comprising the steps of: connecting the mandrel to a source of reference voltage; and applying powder having an opposite electrical charge to the electrical charge on said mandrel to the film. 60. A method as set forth in claim 59, wherein the mandrel consists of electrically nonconductive material, and is made electrically conductive by coating it with electrically conductive material and applying said source of reference voltage to the conductive material. 