A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles, comprising: a frame; an enclosure connected to the frame for providing an enclosed work space; an interface port in said enclosure through which semiconductor articles are moved relative to said work space; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of semiconductor articles relative to said processing stations; at least one centrifugal processing station forming at least one of said plurality of processing stations; at least one immersion processing station forming at least one of said plurality of processing stations; said at least one immersion processing station including at least one immersion tank in which the semiconductor articles are immersed; a conveyor for conveying semiconductor articles to and from said plurality of processing stations. 2. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations are constructed to process the semiconductor articles in batches. 3. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one immersion tank includes a plurality of immersion tanks. 4. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into said at least one immersion tank. 5. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into said at least one immersion tank, said dipper mechanism including a dip head for holding semiconductor articles thereon and a dipper drive which moves the dip head upwardly and downwardly relative to said at least one immersion tank. 6. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one immersion tank includes a plurality of immersion tanks, and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into said plurality of immersion tanks. 7. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said at least one immersion tank includes a plurality of immersion tanks, and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into and between said plurality of immersion tanks. 8. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 and further comprising a dip head, said dip head having a tray receptacle for receiving and holding a tray used to support said semiconductor articles. 9. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of processing stations are constructed to process the semiconductor articles in batches. 10. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor articles, comprising: a frame; an enclosure connected to the frame for providing an enclosed work space; an interface port in said enclosure through which semiconductor articles are moved relative to said work space; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of semiconductor articles relative to said processing stations; a conveyor for conveying semiconductor articles to and from said plurality of processing stations; at least one immersion processing station forming at least one of said plurality of processing stations; said at least one immersion processing station including at least one immersion tank in which the semiconductor articles are immersed. 11. A semiconductor processor according to claim 10 wherein said at least one immersion tank includes a plurality of immersion tanks. 12. A semiconductor processor according to claim 10 and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into said at least one immersion processing station. 13. A semiconductor processor according to claim 10 and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into said at least one immersion processing station, said dipper mechanism including a dip head for holding semiconductor articles thereon and a dipper drive which moves the dip head upwardly and downwardly relative to said at least one immersion tank. 14. A semiconductor processor according to claim 10 wherein said at least one immersion tank includes a plurality of immersion tanks, and further comprising a dipper mechanism for dipping batches of semiconductor articles into said plurality of immersion tanks. 15. A semiconductor processor according to claim 10 and further comprising a dip head, said dip head having a tray receptacle for receiving and holding a tray used to support said semiconductor articles. 16. A method for processing a batch of semiconductor articles, comprising: loading a batch of semiconductor articles held in a wafer carrier into an enclosed work space; transferring the batch of semiconductor articles from said wafer carrier; moving the transferred batch of semiconductor articles onto a conveyor for conveying the semiconductor articles to and from a plurality of processing stations which are accessed from the enclosed work space, said plurality of processing stations including at least one centrifugal processing station and at least one immersion processing station; conveying the batch of semiconductor articles to said at least one centrifugal processing station; processing the batch of semiconductor articles within said at least one centrifugal processing station; conveying the batch of semiconductor articles to said at least one immersion processing station; processing the batch of semiconductor articles within said at least one immersion processing station. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein: said conveying the batch of semiconductor articles to said at least one immersion processing station includes loading the batch onto a dipper mechanism; said processing the batch of semiconductor articles within said at least one immersion processing station includes submersing the batch of semiconductor articles into a bath of processing liquid held in an immersion tank. 18. A method according to claim 16 wherein: said conveying the batch of semiconductor articles to said at least one immersion processing station includes loading the batch onto a dipper mechanism which can move the batch upwardly and downwardly; said processing the batch of semiconductor articles within said at least one immersion processing station includes submersing the batch of semiconductor articles into a bath of processing liquid held in an immersion tank. 19. A method according to claim 16 wherein: said conveying the batch of semiconductor articles to said at least one immersion processing station includes loading the batch onto a dipper mechanism which can move the batch upwardly and downwardly; said processing the batch of semiconductor articles within said at least one immersion processing station includes submersing the batch of semiconductor articles into plural baths of processing liquids held in plural immersion tanks. 20. A method according to claim 16 wherein said transferring includes placing the semiconductor articles upon a processing tray which holds the semiconductor articles. 