An apparatus for the making and breaking of a plug and socket connection within a hazardous environment by remote handling means includes at least one receiving bracket adapted to receive a positioning and retaining plate. The positioning and retaining plate has one of a plug and a socket fixed thereto in a predetermined orientation to permit making or breaking of a connection with the other of a plug and a socket. The at least one receiving bracket and the fixed plug or socket are movable in a direction parallel to the axis of the fixed plug or socket on slider means. The apparatus includes means for moving the at least one receiving bracket and the fixed plug or socket relative to the other of a plug and a socket which is fixed in a co-operating axial and rotational orientation thereto so as to make or break the connection. The at least one receiving bracket has means to permit the fixed plug or socket to be placed in or removed from the at least one receiving bracket by the remote handling means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the making and breaking of a plug and socket connection within a hazardous environment by remote handling means, the apparatus comprising: at least one receiving bracket adapted to receive a positioning and retaining plate, the positioning and retaining plate having one of a plug and a socket fixed thereto in a predetermined orientation to permit making or breaking of a connection with the other of a plug and a socket; said at least one receiving bracket and said fixed plug or socket being movable in a direction parallel to the axis of said fixed plug or socket on slider means; and means for moving said at least one receiving bracket and said fixed plug or socket relative to the other of a plug and a socket which is fixed in a co-operating axial and rotational orientation thereto so as to make or break said connection; wherein said at least one receiving bracket has means to permit said fixed plug or socket to be placed in or removed from said at least one receiving bracket by said remote handling means. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 having two receiving brackets to receive the plug and the socket, respectively. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein one of said receiving brackets is in a fixed position. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said receiving bracket comprises a flat rectangular plate having a slot therein to receive the fixed plug or socket. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein opposed edges of the plate are provided with inturned flange portions to receive and hold the co-operating positioning and retaining plate to which the fixed plug or socket is fixed in a desired orientation. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said receiving bracket comprises two vertical pins and receives a plate having co-operating channels, the plate being fixed to the fixed plug or socket. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the receiving bracket is mounted on slider rails to allow movement along a making/breaking axis of the plug and socket. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the rails comprise round rods on which the bracket is mounted via sliding bearings. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the moving means includes a lever arm and suitable linkage connected to the moveable receiving bracket. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the moving means includes a tab fixed to said receiving bracket for gripping by a manipulator. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the moving means comprises at least one of: a screw-threaded rod; a pneumatic cylinder; a hydraulic cylinder; and a piston rod. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said plug and socket connection being made and broken forms a part of at least one of an electrical connection via cables; a liquid connection via hoses; and a gas connection via hoses. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1 further including a base plate for fixing said apparatus to a firm surface. 14. An apparatus for the making and breaking of a connection between a plug and a socket within a hazardous environment by a remote handling device, the apparatus comprising: a first element and a second element fixed in a co-operating axial and rotational orientation to said first element, said first element being one of a plug and a socket and said second element being the other of a plug and a socket; a positioning and retaining plate having said first element fixed thereto in a predetermined orientation; and a receiving bracket adapted to receive said positioning and retaining plate; wherein said receiving bracket and said first element are movable relative to said second element so as to make or break said connection; wherein said receiving bracket and said first element are movable in a direction parallel to an axis of said first element; wherein said receiving bracket permits said first element to be placed in or removed from said receiving bracket by said remote handling device. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 including an actuator operative to move said receiving bracket and said first element relative to said second element. 16. An apparatus for the making and breaking of a plug and socket connection within a hazardous environment by remote handling means, the apparatus comprising: at least one receiving bracket adapted to receive a positioning and retaining plate, the positioning and retaining plate having one of a plug and a socket fixed thereto in a predetermined orientation to permit making or breaking of a connection with the other of a plug and a socket; said at least one receiving bracket and said fixed plug or socket being movable in a direction parallel to the axis of said fixed plug or socket on slider means; and means for moving said at least one receiving bracket and said fixed plug or socket relative to the other of a plug and a socket which is fixed in a co-operating axial and rotational orientation thereto so as to make or break said connection; wherein said at least one receiving bracket has means to permit said fixed plug or socket to be placed in said at least one receiving bracket by said remote handling means. 17. An apparatus for the making and breaking of a connection between a plug and a socket within a hazardous environment by a remote handling device, the apparatus comprising: a first element and a second element fixed in a co-operating axial and rotational orientation to said first element, said first element being one of a plug and a socket and said second element being the other of a plug and a socket; a positioning and retaining plate having said first element fixed thereto in a predetermined orientation; and a receiving bracket adapted to receive said positioning and retaining plate; wherein said receiving bracket and said first element are movable relative to said second element so as to make or break said connection; wherein said receiving bracket and said first element are movable in a direction parallel to an axis of said first element; wherein said receiving bracket permits said first element to be placed in said receiving bracket by said remote handling device. 