A die apparatus for assembling a part carried by a part strip onto a carrier strip is disclosed. The die apparatus includes a die housing defining an assembly station, with a portion of the die housing including a punch generally aligned with the assembly station. A part strip conveyor is provided and is adapted to convey the part strip to a position adjacent the assembly station, while a carrier strip conveyor is also provided and is adapted to convey the carrier strip to a position aligned with the assembly station. Accordingly, upon operation of the punch a part is separated from the part strip and inserted into a part receiving aperture of the carrier strip during a single punch stroke.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for assembling a part carried by a part strip into a resiliently deflectable carrier strip having a part-receiving aperture therein, comprising: first means for conveying the part strip along a first path to deliver the part to an assembly station; second means for conveying the carrier strip along a second path transverse to the first path to position the part-receiving aperture at the assembly station; and a punch operative when the part is aligned with the part-receiving aperture at the assembly station for separating the part from the part strip and placing the part in the part-receiving aperture, the punch operating to place the part into the carrier strip by causing the part to deflect the carrier strip during a single punch stroke. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further including means for positioning the carrier strip. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the positioning means comprises at least one pilot that extends into a positioning hole in the carrier strip. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further including means for guiding the part into the part-receiving aperture. 5. A die apparatus for inserting a part carried by a part strip into a resiliently deflectable carrier strip having a part-receiving aperture therein, the apparatus comprising: a die housing defining an assembly station, a portion of the die housing including a punch generally aligned with the assembly station, the punch being moveable through a punch stroke and being arranged to separate a part from the part strip during the punch stroke and further to cause the part to deflect at least a portion of the carrier strip during the same punch stroke; a part strip conveyor adapted to convey the part strip to a position adjacent the assembly station; and a carrier strip conveyor adapted to convey the carrier strip to a position aligned with the assembly station; whereby upon operation of the punch a part is separated from the part strip and inserted into the part receiving aperture of the carrier strip during a single punch stroke. 6. The die apparatus of claim 5, wherein the part strip is conveyed along a first path and wherein the carrier strip is conveyed along a second path transverse to the first path. 7. The die apparatus of claim 5, wherein the housing includes a locator generally aligned with and surrounding the assembly station. 8. The die apparatus of claim 5, wherein the housing includes an upper portion, a lower portion, and an intermediate portion, the upper portion, the lower portion, and the intermediate portion being adapted for relative linear movement. 9. The die apparatus of claim 8, and including a spring disposed between the housing upper and intermediate portions for biasing the upper and intermediate portions away from each other. 10. The die apparatus of claim 8, including a plurality of liner pins extending between the housing intermediate and upper portions. 11. The die apparatus of claim 8, wherein the housing includes a plurality of pilots operatively engaging the lower and intermediate portions, the pilots being adapted to engage the carrier strip to thereby accurately position the carrier strip adjacent the assembly station. 12. The die apparatus of claim 5, wherein the housing includes a lifter guide, the lifter guide including a channel and being adapted to guide the part strip. 13. The die apparatus of claim 5, wherein the housing includes a plurality of pilots, the pilots being responsive to movement of the punch and being adapted to engage the carrier strip to thereby accurately position the carrier strip adjacent the assembly station. 14. A die apparatus for inserting a part carried by a part strip into a carrier strip having a part-receiving aperture therein, the apparatus comprising: a die housing defining an assembly station, a portion of the die housing including a punch generally aligned with the assembly station, the housing including a support rod, the support rod being moveable between retracted position and a support position in response to operation of the punch, the support rod in the support position being adapted to support a portion of the carrier strip; a part strip conveyor adapted to convey the part strip to a position adjacent the assembly station; and a carrier strip conveyor adapted to convey the carrier strip to a position aligned with the assembly station; whereby upon operation of the punch a part is separated from the part strip and inserted into the part receiving aperture of the carrier strip during a single punch stroke. 15. The die apparatus of claim 14, including a piston assembly operatively connected to the support rod and being adapted to shift the support rod between the retracted and support positions. 16. A die apparatus for inserting a part carried by a part strip into a carrier strip having a part-receiving aperture therein, the apparatus comprising: a die housing defining an assembly station, a portion of the die housing including a punch generally aligned with the assembly station, the housing including a lower portion, and further including a part locator removably attached to the housing lower portion, the part locator being generally aligned with and surrounding the assembly station; a part strip conveyor adapted to convey the part strip to a position adjacent the assembly station; and a carrier strip conveyor adapted to convey the carrier strip to a position aligned with the assembly station, the part locator being adapted to guide the part into the carrier strip; whereby upon operation of the punch a part is separated from the part strip and inserted into the part receiving aperture of the carrier strip during a single punch stroke. 