There is disclosed an elevator for holding a workpiece, the elevator comprising a turntable and adapted to slide along a support chain to thereby vertically displace the elevator. There is further disclosed a method of assembling a workpiece, the method comprising the steps of stacking first and second workpiece sections on a turntable elevator; and sliding the elevator along a support chain to thereby vertically position the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An elevator for holding a workpiece, said elevator comprising a platform; at least two spaced pairs of sprockets on the platform; a turntable rotatably mounted on the platform; and a support chain, the support chain operatively connected to at least one of said pairs of sprockets for suspending the platform along the support chain; and a powered bi-directional chain drive for displacing a length of said chain for vertically positioning the platform along said support chain. 2. The elevator according to claim 1 wherein said chain is a roller chain. 3. The elevator according to claim 1, wherein said support chain has two fixed ends, said platform moves relative to both of said fixed ends, and wherein said vertically positioning occurs at a point distant from said fixed ends. 4. The elevator according to claim 1 further comprising a rotation damper. 5. The elevator according to claim 1 wherein said chain drive comprises a powered sprocket for displacing the length of said chain. 6. The elevator according to claim 5 wherein said chain contacts said chain drive at a drive point, and wherein: a first length of said chain extends on a first side of said drive point, a second length of said chain extends on a second side of said drive point, and wherein said platform is supported on said first length and a counterweight is supported on said second length. 7. A workpiece holding apparatus, comprising: a workstation; and a workpiece supporting elevator actuable to support a workpiece and to position the workpiece vertically and circumferentially relative to the workstation, the elevator including a platform, at least two spaced pairs of sprockets on the platform, and a turntable rotatably mounted on the platform; a support chain, the support chain operatively engaging at least one of the pairs of sprockets for suspending the elevator on the support chain; and a powered bi-directional chain drive for displacing a length of said chain for vertically positioning said elevator along said support chain. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said chain drive contacts said chain at a drive point, and wherein a first length of said chain extends on a first side of said drive point and a second length of said chain extends on a second side of said drive point, and further comprising a counterweight slidingly suspended from said first length and wherein said elevator is slidingly suspended from said second length. 9. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said chain is a roller chain. 10. The elevator according to claim 1 further comprising third and fourth pairs of spaced apart of sprockets on said platform, and second, third and fourth chain drives operatively connected to respective pairs of the sprockets. 