The three dimensional probe device of the present invention is mountable on a working end of a fully automated and articulated robotic arm movable through at least five degrees of axial freedom in a global dimensional reference. The three dimensional probe device comprises a base, a carriage, a probe, a Z axis measuring apparatus and a tilt measuring apparatus. The probe tip contacts the work piece surface to be traced with deflections in the workpiece seam or path resulting in movement of the carriage and probe. The probe includes a plate and a ball which is pivotable in a ball socket portion of the carriage. Movement of the carriage in relation to the base provides measurement data for rotational change in the direction of the workpiece path or seam. Tilting of the probe provides measurement data for translational change in the direction of the workpiece path or seam.
Claims We claim: 1. A device, mountable on a working end of a fully automated and articulated robotic arm movable in six dimensions in a global dimensional reference, for three dimensional tactile tracing of a surface of a workpiece in an orthogonal coordinate system using a device local dimensional reference of an X axis, a Y axis and a Z axis, as the device is moved by the robotic arm and operably engages the workpiece, the device comprising: a base having a proximal end and a distal end oriented along the Z axis, attachable proximally to the working end of the robotic arm and having a first surface oriented parallel to the Z axis, proximal to distal; a carriage rollably mounted to the first surface having a reversible operable motion confined to the Z axis, the carriage including a proximal arm aligned generally orthogonal to the Z axis and having a proximal surface and a distal surface, and a distal arm with a ball socket; means, operably connected between the base and the proximal surface, for biasing the carriage motion in the distal direction; a probe having a proximal portion, a mid portion, and a distal portion aligned along a longitudinal axis for engaging the workpiece, the proximal portion including a plate with a flat surface orthogonal to the longitudinal axis, the longitudinal axis defining a center point on the flat surface, the mid portion including a ball operably pivotally engaging the ball socket and defining a center pivot point on the longitudinal axis, the center point of the plate fixed a first distance proximal to the center pivot point, and the distal portion includes a distal tip for operably engaging the surface of the workpiece and is fixed a second distance distal to the center pivot point along the longitudinal axis, and when the ball operably engages the socket, the flat surface faces generally proximally toward the distal surface of the proximal arm; Z axis measuring means, operably positionable between the base and the proximal surface of the proximal arm, for measuring distance of movement of the carriage parallel to the Z-axis and generating a measurement data stream; and plate tilt measuring means, operably positionable between the flat surface of the plate and the distal surface of the proximal arm, for measuring the tilting of the flat surface of the plate in relation to the Z axis as a result of pivoting the ball in the ball socket and generating a measurement data stream. 2. The device of claim 1 in which the Z axis measuring means includes a first linear position transducer and the plate tilt measuring means includes second and third linear position transducers, the second linear transducer operably positionable between the proximal arm and the flat surface, operably engaging the flat surface at a point a third distance from the center point in the X axis, and the third linear position transducer operably positionable between the proximal arm and the flat surface, operably engaging the flat surface at a point a fourth distance from the center point in the Y axis. 3. The device of claim 2 in which the first linear position transducer is fixedly engaging the base and is aligned parallel to the Z axis, and the second and third linear transducers are fixedly engaging the proximal arm and each are aligned at an angle to the Z axis. 4. The device of claim 2 in which the first linear position transducer is fixedly engaging the base and is aligned parallel to the Z axis, and the second and third linear transducers are fixedly engaging the proximal arm and each are aligned parallel to the Z axis. 5. The device of claim 1 further comprising means, operably connected to the first and second measuring means, for receiving measurement data streams from the first and second measuring means. 6. The device of claim 5 further comprising control means, operably connected between the receiving means and the robotic arm, for controlling the movements of the robotic arm according to the measurement data from the receiving means. 7. The device of claim 6 in which the control means includes program means for processing measuring data into robotic arm movement commands so that when the device is positioned with the distal tip in contact with a point, at a start position, on a surface of the workpiece and in an optimal orientation, in the X, Y, and Z axes, in relation to the surface point of the workpiece, then any measured deviation of the distal tip, in the X, Y, and Z axes, from the optimal orientation caused by movement of the device by the robotic arm across the workpiece surface results in commands from the program means to the robotic arm to change articulations of the robotic arm and counter the deviations of the distal tip thus maintaining the optimal orientation, in the X, Y, and Z axes, of the device over that point of the surface of the workpiece in contact with the distal tip during movement of the device. 8. The device of claim 7 further comprising memory means, operably connected to the program means, for storing in memory at least the start position, the optimal orientation, the deviations, if any, of the distal tip as the device is moved by the robotic arm, and the commands to the robotic arm, in relation to the global reference system, to change articulations of the robotic arm so as to maintain the optimal orientation of the device over the point of the surface of the workpiece in contact with the distal tip during movement of the device. 9. The device of claim 1 further comprising means, operably engaging the ball and socket, for urgingly biasing the probe toward centering the longitudinal axis of the probe parallel to the Z axis. 10. The device of claim 1 further comprising means, operably engaging the distal tip, for reducing friction from the distal tip engaging the surface of the workpiece. 11. The device of claim 10 in which the means for reducing friction includes a rolling ball in a socket. 12. The device of claim 10 in which the means for reducing friction includes a material having a low coefficient of friction. 13. The device of claim 1 in which the means for biasing the carriage motion includes a spring in compression. 14. The device of claim 1 further comprising means for biasing the probe longitudinal axis toward alignment with the device Z axis. 15. The device of claim 14 in which the biasing means includes a spring biasing. 16. The device of claim 14 in which the biasing means includes an electromagnetic mechanism. 17. The device of claim 14 in which the biasing means includes a housing carried by the carriage for housing the proximal arm, ball socket and the probe proximal and mid portions with the probe distal portion extending through an opening in the housing, and having at least one spring biased between the housing and the probe. 