The present invention is an automated sealant applicator held by a gantry tool and is computer directed and controlled for performing sealant operations on workpieces. The automated sealant applicator is computer directed and controlled for moving around a workpiece and for applying controlled amounts of sealants along precise paths, and with desired sealant patterns. The amount, path, and pattern of sealant are derived from engineering data. A CCD advanced vision system and/or a cutter chuck with a positioning and locating system can be used to precisely locate and apply sealant to the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated sealant applicator system for automatically performing sealant operations on a workpiece, comprising: a platform; a numerically controlled gantry slidably coupled to said platform; said gantry having a robotic arm having an end sealant applicator tool for applying a sealant to said workpiece; a vertical translation module coupled to said robotic arm and having a vertical movement device for translating said robotic arm along a Z axis; a plurality of longitudinal translation modules coupled to said robotic arm and said platform and having a longitudinal movement device for translating said longitudinal translation modules along a Y axis; a transverse translation module coupled to said robotic arm and said vertical translation module and having a transverse movement device for translating said transverse translation module along a X axis; a charge-coupled device vision/camera system having a positioning and locating system attached to a lower end of said robotic arm to precisely locate and apply said sealant to said workpiece; and a multi-movement control device having preprogrammed instructions stored in programmable memory, wherein said multi-movement control device is electronically coupled to said robotic arm having said end sealant applicator tool for electronically controlling said sealant applicator automatically with said preprogrammed instructions. 2. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said charge-coupled device vision/camera system is a cutter chuck vision system with a positioning and locating system to precisely locate said workpiece and apply sealant to said workpiece. 3. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a coupling for receiving instructions in real-time for electronically controlling said sealant applicator automatically with said real-time instructions. 4. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a path controller for applying controlled amounts of sealant along a preprogrammed path and with desired sealant patterns on said workpiece. 5. The invention as set forth in claim 4, wherein said amounts, path, and patterns of said sealant are derived from predetermined sealant and workpiece engineering data preprogrammed into said multi-movement control device. 6. The invention as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a sealant mixer coupled to said sealant applicator tool for continuously mixing resins to form said sealant. 7. The invention as set forth in claim 6, further comprising a feed pump coupled to said sealant mixer and said multi-movement control device and a feed line coupled between said sealant mixer and said sealant applicator tool, wherein said feed pump and said feed line automatically pump and feed said mixed resins as a sealant to said sealant applicator tool continuously in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 8. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises an electromechanical plunger device coupled to said multi-movement control device for pneumatically dispensing said sealant automatically in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 9. The invention as set forth in claim 1, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises a sealant head for receiving plural interchangeable sealant tips, wherein each sealant tip creates a desired sealant pattern. 10. An automated sealant applicator system for automatically performing sealant operations on a workpiece, comprising: at least one support assembly located adjacent a workpiece, said at least one support assembly including at least one engager; a platform removably attached to an upper end of said at least one support assembly; a numerically controlled gantry slidably coupled to said platform; said gantry having a robotic arm having an end sealant applicator tool for applying a sealant to said workpiece; a vertical translation module coupled to said robotic arm and having a vertical movement device for translating said robotic arm along a Z axis; a plurality of longitudinal translation modules coupled to said robotic arm and said platform and having a longitudinal movement device for translating said longitudinal translation modules along a Y axis; a transverse translation module coupled to said robotic arm and said vertical translation module and having a transverse movement device for translating said transverse translation module along a X axis; said mobile multi-axis numerical controlled robotic arm having said end sealant applicator tool having at least one proximity sensor removably engaged to said at least one engager, wherein said robotic arm is detachably coupled to said at least one support assembly and transportable between at least one support assembly and another support assembly with another workpiece for performing sealant operations on each respective workpiece; a charge-coupled device vision/camera system having a positioning and locating system attached to a lower end of said robotic arm to precisely locate and apply said sealant to said workpiece; and a multi-movement control device having preprogrammed instructions stored in programmable memory, wherein said multi-movement control device is electronically coupled to said robotic arm having said sealant applicator tool for electronically controlling said sealant applicator automatically with said preprogrammed instructions. 11. The invention as set forth in claim 10, wherein said charge-coupled device vision/camera system is a cutter chuck vision system with a positioning and locating system to precisely locate said workpiece and apply sealant to said workpiece. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein said robotic arm having an end sealant applicator tool further comprises plural movement locating devices and wherein said control device further comprises a controller for storing control signals for each of said respective movement locating device and for said robotic arm having an end sealant applicator tool and for sending said control signals to each of said respective movement locating device and said sealant tool at predetermined intervals. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said control signals for each of said respective movement locating device further comprises: a set of cartesian coordinates for each of said respective movement locating devices; and a set of angles for each of said movement locating devices. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said control signals for said machine tool further comprises: a set of machine tool operation instructions. 15. The invention as set forth in claim 10, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a coupling for receiving instructions in real-time for electronically controlling said sealant applicator automatically with said real-time instructions. 16. The invention as set forth in claim 10, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a path controller for applying controlled amounts of sealant along a preprogrammed path and with desired sealant patterns on the workpiece. 17. The invention as set forth in claim 16, wherein said amounts, path, and patterns of said sealant are derived from predetermined sealant and workpiece engineering data preprogrammed into said multi-movement control device. 18. The invention as set forth in claim 10, further comprising a sealant mixer coupled to said sealant applicator tool for continuously mixing resins to form said sealant and a feed device coupled between said sealant mixer and said sealant applicator tool for automatically pumping and feeding said mixed resins as said sealant to said sealant applicator tool continuously in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 19. The invention as set forth in claim 10, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises an electromechanical plunger device coupled to said multi-movement control device for pneumatically dispensing said sealant automatically in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 20. The invention as set forth in claim 10, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises a sealant head for receiving plural interchangeable sealant tips, wherein each sealant tip creates a desired sealant pattern. 21. An automated sealant applicator system for automatically performing sealant operations on a workpiece, comprising: a support assembly located adjacent said workpiece, said support assembly including a plurality of reference positions; a platform removably attached to an upper end of said support assembly; a portable multi-axis, numerically controlled gantry slidably coupled to said platform; said gantry having a robotic arm having an end sealant applicator tool for applying a sealant to said workpiece; a vertical translation module coupled to said robotic arm and having a vertical movement device for translating said robotic arm along a Z axis; a plurality of longitudinal translation modules coupled to said robotic arm and said platform and having a longitudinal movement device for translating said longitudinal translation modules along a Y axis; a transverse translation module coupled to said robotic arm and said vertical translation module and having a transverse movement device for translating said transverse translation module along a X axis; said portable multi-axis, numerically controlled gantry having said robotic arm having said end sealant applicator tool with sealant, said gantry being detachably mountable to any one of said reference positions of said support assembly; a charge-coupled device vision/camera system having a positioning and locating system attached to a lower end of said robotic arm to precisely locate and apply said sealant to said workpiece; and a multi-movement control device coupled to said portable multi-axis gantry for manipulating said gantry and for directing said robotic arm having said sealant applicator tool to apply controlled amounts of sealant to said workpiece. 22. The invention as set forth in claim 21, wherein said charge-coupled device vision/camera system is a cutter chuck vision system with a positioning and locating system to precisely locate said workpiece and apply sealant to said workpiece. 23. The invention as set forth in claim 21, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a coupling for receiving instructions in real-time for electronically controlling said sealant applicator automatically with said real-time instructions. 24. The invention as set forth in claim 21, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a path controller for applying controlled amounts of sealant along a preprogrammed path and with desired sealant patterns on the workpiece. 25. The invention as set forth in claim 24, wherein said amounts, path, and patterns of said sealant are derived from predetermined sealant and workpiece engineering data preprogrammed into said multi-movement control device. 26. The invention as set forth in clam 21, further comprising a sealant mixer coupled to said sealant applicator tool for continuously mixing resins to form said sealant. 27. The invention as set forth in claim 26, further comprising a feed pump coupled to said sealant mixer and said multi-movement control device and a feed line coupled between said sealant mixer and said sealant applicator tool, wherein said feed pump and said feed line automatically pump and feed said mixed resins as a sealant to said sealant applicator tool continuously in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 28. The invention as set forth in claim 21, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises an electromechanical plunger device coupled to said multi-movement control device for pneumatically dispensing the sealant automatically in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 29. The invention as set forth in claim 21, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises a sealant head for receiving plural interchangeable sealant tips, wherein each sealant tip creates a desired sealant pattern. 30. An automated sealant applicator system for automatically performing sealant operations on a workpiece, comprising: a reconfigurable gantry tool, comprising a platform, a sine plate rotatably and slidably coupled to said platform, and a numerically controlled gantry slidably and rotatably coupled to said platform to allow multi-axis movement of said gantry; wherein said gantry includes a sealant applicator tool with sealant; and a multi-movement control device coupled to said platform, sine plate, and gantry for controlling movement of said coupled devices and for directing said robotic arm having said sealant applicator tool to apply controlled amounts of sealant to said workpiece. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein said reconfigurable gantry tool is a first reconfigurable gantry tool, wherein said system further comprises a second reconfigurable gantry tool with a second tool coupled to said first reconfigurable gantry tool for receiving said workpiece from said sine plate and for performing secondary tooling operations on said workpiece. 32. The system of claim 30, wherein said control device comprises: a controller for storing control signals of movement devices attached to said gantry and said sealant applicator tool, and for sending said control signals to each of said respective movement devices and said sealant applicator tool at predetermined intervals. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein said control signals for each of said respective movement devices further comprises: a set of cartesian coordinates for each of said respective movement devices; and a set of angles for each of said respective movement device. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein said control signals for said sealant applicator tool further comprises: a set of machine tool operation instructions. 35. The invention as set forth in claim 30, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a coupling for receiving instructions in real-time for electronically controlling said sealant applicator automatically with said real-time instructions. 36. The invention as set forth in claim 30, wherein said multi-movement control device further comprises a path controller for applying controlled amounts of sealant along a preprogrammed path and with desired sealant patterns on the workpiece. 37. The invention as set forth in claim 36, wherein said amounts, path, and patterns of said sealant are derived from predetermined sealant and workpiece engineering data preprogrammed into said multi-movement control device. 38. The invention as set forth in claim 30, further comprising a sealant mixer coupled to said sealant applicator tool for continuously mixing resins to form said sealant and a feed device coupled between said sealant mixer and said sealant applicator tool for automatically pumping and feeding said mixed resins as a sealant to said sealant applicator tool continuously in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 39. The invention as set forth in claim 30, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises an electromechanical plunger device coupled to said multi-movement control device for pneumatically dispensing the sealant automatically in response to signals from said multi-movement control device. 40. The invention as set forth in claim 30, wherein said sealant applicator tool further comprises a sealant head for receiving plural interchangeable sealant tips, wherein each sealant tip creates a desired sealant pattern. 