An intelligent fixture system has the ability to clamp and machine a family of nonidentical parts without requiring the use of separate dedicated fixtures for each part. A first part sensing system identifies a part to be machined and configures the clamps on a fixture in accordance with the size and shape of the part. A second part sensing system determines the exact location of the part after it has been clamped into the fixture and develops error signals representative of position and orientation of the actual position of the clamped part relative to the intended position and orientation of the clamped part. X, Y, and Z position errors signals and roll error signals of the clamped part are provided as offsets to the machine tools which will machine the part in order to compensate for the errors. Pitch and yaw errors in the orientation of the clamped part are used to adjust the position of a micro-positioner located between the fixture and the pallet which carries the fixture in which the part is clamped in order to correct the pitch and yaw of the part.
Claims I claim: 1. A flexible fixture system for fixturing and machining a family of parts in which the parts in the family are all similar to one another comprising: a fixture configuration station; an input conveyor for delivering the family of parts one at a time at the fixture configuration station; a station controller at the fixture configuration station; a pallet assembly at the fixture configuration station; robot means controlled by the station controller for loading a part onto the pallet assembly; means for sensing errors in the position and orientation of the loaded part on the pallet assembly; means for compensating for errors in the position and orientation of the part; and, an output conveyor extending from the fixture configuration station to a series of machine tools. 2. The flexible fixture system of claim 1 further comprising: a first part sensing system mounted along the input conveyor; means coupling signals from the first part sensing system to the station controller; and, a plurality of clamps on the pallet assembly, wherein the station controller controls the robot to configure the clamps on the pallet assembly in accordance with the configuration of the part as sensed by the first part sensing system. 3. The flexible fixture system of claim 1 further comprising: a first part sensing system mounted along the input conveyor and a second part sensing system mounted at the fixture configuration station; means coupling signals from the second part sensing system to the station controller; a micro-positioner comprising part of the pallet assembly; and, means for adjusting the position of the part as sensed by the second part sensing system by adjusting the position of the micro-positioner. 4. The flexible fixture system of claim 3 further comprising: a support platform comprising part of the micro-positioner, and first rotation means for rotating the support platform about at least one axis, whereby rotational error of the position of a part clamped in a fixture on the support platform may be corrected by the micro-positioner. 5. The flexible fixture system of claim 4 further comprising: a data recording means mounted on the pallet assembly and means at the fixture configuration station for writing position information of the clamped part from the record part sensing system on the data recording means. 6. The flexible fixture system of claim 5 further comprising: second rotation means for rotating the support platform of the micro-positioner about a second axis. 7. The flexible fixture system comprising: a fixture configuration station including a station controller; an input conveyor leading into the fixture configuration station; an output conveyor leading out of the fixture configuration station; a pallet assembly at the fixture configuration station, the pallet assembly comprising a pallet which supports a micro-positioner and a fixture having a plurality of clamps supported by the micro-positioner; a first part sensing system mounted along the input conveyor and a second part sensing system mounted at the fixture configuration station; means for adjusting the pitch and yaw of a part clamped in the fixture; and, means for recording on the pallet assembly X, Y, and Z position errors and roll orientation errors of the part clamped in the fixture. 8. The method of machining a family of parts comprising: providing a fixture configuration station including a robot and a station controller; sensing a part as it enters the fixture configuration station using a first part sensing system; providing a pallet assembly at the fixture configuration station; sensing the position and orientation of a part which is clamped into the pallet assembly using a second part sensing system; developing X, Y, and Z axis offsets to compensate for X, Y, and Z axis position errors of the clamped part as sensed by the second part sensing system; developing roll, pitch, and yaw orientation errors of the clamped part as sensed by the second part sensing system; and, adjusting the pitch and yaw of the clamped part to correct the pitch and yaw errors as sensed by the second part sensing system. 