The amount of particulate contamination produced due to rubbing between a semiconductor substrate and the robotic substrate handling blade has been greatly reduced by the use of specialized materials either as the principal material of construction for the semiconductor substrate handling blade, or as a coating upon the surface of the wafer handling blade. In particular, the specialized material must exhibit the desired stiffness at temperatures in excess of about 450.degree. C.; the specialized material must also have an abrasion resistant surface which does not produce particulates when rubbed against the semiconductor substrate. The abrasion resistant surface needs to be very smooth, having a surface finish of less than 1.0 micro inch, and preferably less than 0.2 micro inch. In addition, the surface must be essentially void-free. In the most preferred embodiments, the upper, top surface of the substrate handling blade is constructed from a dielectric material being smooth, non-porous, and wear-resistant. A preferred material for construction of the substrate handling blade is single crystal sapphire. Other single crystal materials, such as single crystal silicon and single crystal silicon carbide should also perform well. In a particularly preferred embodiment of the substrate handling blade, a capacitance sensor is used to indicate the presence of a semiconductor substrate on the surface of the handling blade and a structure through which vacuum is applied may be used to hold (chuck) the semiconductor substrate to the surface of the handling blade.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of fabricating an apparatus for handling a semiconductor substrate, comprising the steps of: a) providing a top plate having a top plate major upper surface at least a portion of which is formed from a specialized material having an essentially void-free structure and an optical or mirror finish, and having a top plate major lower surface; b) providing a bottom plate having a bottom plate major upper surface and a bottom plate major lower surface; c) machining either said top plate major lower surface or said bottom plate major upper surface to provide for a pattern including at least one capacitance sensor; d) filling at least a portion of said machined pattern with a first layer of conductive material; e) applying a patterned second layer of conductive material to either said top plate major lower surface or to said bottom plate major upper surface, which surface has no conductive pattern on it; f) applying an insulator over at least a portion of either said first layer of conductive material or said second layer of conductive material; g) attaching said top plate to said bottom plate to form a cohesive unit, in a manner such that said combined pattern of said first and second conductive layers forms a capacitance sensor. 2. The method of claim 1, including an additional step, comprising: machining a vacuum channel into either said top plate major lower surface or said bottom plate major upper surface. 3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein said apparatus is a handling blade. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said capacitive sensor is comprised of a sensing layer and an underlying guard layer, separated by an electrically isolating layer. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2 or claim 3 or claim 4, wherein said apparatus is a handling blade. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein said apparatus is a handling blade. 7. A semiconductor substrate handling blade used to lift or carry a semiconductor substrate from one process or storage location to another, wherein an upper surface of said handling blade, which contacts said semiconductor substrate, is formed from a specialized material having an essentially void-free structure, wherein said upper surface is a smooth, low-friction surface, whereby said surface reduces the generation of particulates when contacted with said semiconductor substrate; wherein said upper surface comprises a front shoe and a rear shoe formed from said specialized material, whereby a surface of said front and rear shoe which contacts said semiconductor substrate is wear-resistant; wherein the shape of said front shoe provides for two points of contact between a trailing edge of said front shoe and said semiconductor substrate; and, wherein said trailing edge of said front shoe comprises cut-away sections which permit fitting to a semiconductor device substrate which has corners, whereby damage to said corners is reduced or avoided. 8. The semiconductor substrate handling blade of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein said specialized material has an essentially void-free structure having a smooth, optical or mirror finish. 