The present invention provides a system for performing a desired operation in a wellbore. The system contains a downhole tool which includes a mobility platform that is electrically operated to move the downhole tool in the wellbore and an end work device to perform the desired work. The downhole tool also includes an imaging device to provide pictures of the downhole environment. The data from the downhole tool is communicated to a surface computer, which controls the operation of the tool and displays pictures of the tool environment. Novel tactile sensors for use as imaging devices are also provided. In an alternative embodiment the downhole tool is composed of a base unit and a detachable work unit. The work unit includes the mobility platform, imaging device and the end work device. The tool is conveyed into the wellbore by a conveying member. The work unit detaches itself from the base unit, travels to the desired location in the wellbore and performs a predefined operation according to programmed instruction stored in the work unit. The work unit returns to the base unit, where it transfers data relating to the operation and can be recharged for further operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool for performing a desired operation at a selected work site in a wellbore, comprising: A. a mobility device carried by the tool for moving the tool in the wellbore; B. a tactile imaging device carried by the tool for providing an image of the selected work site for use in performing the desired operation; and C. an end work device carried by the tool for performing the desired operation at the selected work site in the wellbore. 2. The tool according to claim 1, wherein the imaging device includes: i. a rotatable segment that is adapted to rotate about a longitudinal axis of the tool; and ii. a probe carried by said rotatable segment, said probe being biased to extend outward of the tool to make contact with the wellbore inside in an extended position. 3. The tool according to claim 2, wherein the imaging device includes a motor that is adapted to rotate the rotatable segment at a speed selected from a range of speeds. 4. The tool according to claim 2, wherein the imaging device includes a circuit and a program that determines the position of an end of the probe relative to a selected point on the tool while the probe is rotating. 5. The tool according to claim 1, wherein the imaging device includes: i. a base that is adapted to rotate about a longitudinal axis of the tool; and ii. a probe carried by the base, said probe adapted to extend longitudinally from the tool when placed at a downhole end of the tool. 6. The tool according to claim 5, wherein the probe includes a pivot arm attached to the base and a probe arm pivotly attached to the pivot arm. 7. The tool according to claim 6, wherein the pivot arm is adapted to rotate about the base and the probe arm is adapted to rotate about the pivot arm. 8. The tool of claim 1 wherein the tool further includes a transmitter for transmitting signals to a surface location that is selected from the group comprising an electromagnet transmitter, a fluid acoustic transmitter, a tubular fluid transmitter, a mud-pulse transmitter, a fibre optics transmitter and a conductor wire transmitter. 9. The tool according to claim 1 wherein the end work device comprises a plurality of end work devices. 10. The tool according to claim 1 further comprising a computer having at least one processor for controlling the operation of the end work device. 11. The tool according to claim 1 further comprising a memory for recording data from the sensor for data retrieval when the tool is brought back to the surface. 12. The tool according to claim 1 further comprising a memory preprogrammed with a work site data model for correlating the data generated downhole with the pre-programmed work site data model to facilitate the identification of the work site. 13. The tool according to claim 1 further comprising a formation evaluation sensor. 14. The tool according to claim 1 further comprising a device that provides information selected from the position, orientation, inclination and azimuth of the tool in the wellbore. 15. The tool according to claim 1 wherein the imaging device provides data for determining a three dimensional picture of the environment of the tool. 16. The tool according to claim 1, wherein the end work device is a cutting device having a rotatable base coupled to the tool and an outwardly movable cutting member coupled to the base. 17. A system for performing a desired operation at a selected work site in a wellbore, comprising: A. a computer at the surface; B. a downhole tool adapted to be conveyed into the wellbore, said downhole tool having, i. a mobility device carried by the downhole tool for moving the downhole tool in the wellbore; ii. a tactile imaging device carried by the downhole tool for providing an image of the selected work site for use in performing the desired operation; and iii. an end work device carried by the downhole tool for performing the desired operation at the selected work site in the wellbore; and C. a conveying member from a source thereof at the surface, said conveying member having an end thereof coupled to the downhole tool for conveying the downhole tool to a selected location in the wellbore. 18. The downhole tool according to claim 17, wherein the downhole tool is composed of: i. a base unit coupled to the conveying member; ii. a work unit detachably attached to the base unit, said work unit adapted to detach itself from the base unit when the downhole tool is in the wellbore and to travel in the wellbore after it has been detached from the base unit to a selected location to perform the desired operation. 19. The downhole tool according to claim 18, wherein: i. the base unit includes a source of supplying power and a communication device for communicating with the computer at the surface; and ii. the work unit includes the mobility device, the imaging device and the end work device. 