A method for verifying a tape cartridge is presented. One method includes introducing a tape cartridge into a tape library wherein when introduced, the tape cartridge can then be loaded in a tape drive in an attempt to bring the tape cartridge to a functionally ready state with the tape drive. In loading the tape cartridge in the tape drive, the loading performance of the first tape cartridge can be assessed based on bringing the first tape cartridge to a functionally ready state. A record of the performance information can then be stored on a central data base and/or on a medium auxiliary memory device located in the tape cartridge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of verifying a tape cartridge possessing a medium auxiliary memory device, the method comprising: introducing said tape cartridge into a tape library; loading said tape cartridge in a tape drive; attempting to bring said tape cartridge to a functionally ready state with said tape drive such that said tape cartridge is operable to perform data exchange operations; assessing said performance of said tape cartridge based on attempting to bring said tape cartridge to said functionally ready state; storing on a central data base and on said medium auxiliary memory device a record of said performance of said tape cartridge from said assessment step. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said tape library provides access to a plurality of tape cartridges operable to perform data exchange operations, and further comprising disposing said tape cartridge in a shelf system in said tape library if said tape cartridge has reached said functionally ready state. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said tape drive consists essentially of a spare tape drive. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said tape drive consists essentially of a spare tape drive and said assessing step is performed while other tape drives are performing other storage operation in said tape library. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said tape library includes a plurality of other tape cartridges disposed in a tape cartridge magazine. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said tape cartridge magazine includes at least one spare tape cartridge intended for replacing said tape cartridge if said tape cartridge fails to reach said functional ready state. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said assessing step includes assessing said performance of at least one mechanical component associated with said tape cartridge that contributes to reaching said functionally ready state. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said at least one mechanical component is selected from a group consisting of a locking mechanism, tape medium access door, a tape reel, a tape leader, and a tape medium. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising mapping said tape cartridge to be accessed by a host computer if said tape cartridge has reached said functionally ready state. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising indicating to an end user that said tape cartridge has been verified as reliable if said tape cartridge has reached said functionally ready state. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said indicating step is accomplished via a visual display device. 12. A pre-use tape verification method comprising: inserting a tape cartridge in a tape drive; initiating a tape loading sequence including a plurality of tape loading steps; performing at least one of said tape loading steps; assessing each of said tape loading steps as they are performed; rejecting said tape cartridge if any of said tape loading steps fails to perform according to pre established parameters. 13. The pre-use tape verification method of claim 12 wherein said tape loading steps include unlocking a spring loaded latch associated with said tape cartridge after said tape cartridge has been inserted in said tape drive; engaging at least one reel associated with said tape cartridge via a spindle motor device associated with said tape drive; and threading tape medium associated with said tape cartridge in said tape drive. 14. The pre-use tape verification method of claim 12 wherein said tape cartridge possesses a medium auxiliary memory device and further comprising storing a record on said medium auxiliary memory device possessed about whether said tape cartridge has been rejected. 15. The pre-use tape verification method of claim 12 wherein performing according to said pre established parameters said tape cartridge ultimately reaching a functionally ready state. 16. The pre-use tape verification method of claim 12 further comprising passing said tape cartridge if said tape loading steps each perform according to said pre established parameters and maintaining in a data base a record of essentially when said tape cartridge passed said tape loading steps. 17. The pre-use tape verification method of claim 16 wherein said tape cartridge possesses a medium auxiliary memory device further comprising storing said record in said medium auxiliary memory device. 18. The pre-use tape verification method of claim 12 further comprising indicating to an end user via a visual display device that said tape cartridge has been verified as reliable if said tape loading steps each perform according to said pre established parameters. 19. A tape library comprising: a tape drive; a tape cartridge adapted to be loaded in said tape drive and to reach a functionally ready state in operable association with said tape drive; a storage device that stores a database, wherein said database maintains a record of at least one event when said tape cartridge has reached a functionally ready state after being loaded in said tape drive, said record maintained prior to any request by a host computer to access said tape cartridge; and a display device that indicates that said tape cartridge has been loaded in said tape drive and has reached said functionally ready state. 20. The tape library of claim 19 wherein said tape cartridge comprises a medium auxiliary memory device which also maintains said record. 