A universal interface and transfer apparatus is disclosed which may be configured either as an indexer or a load port opener. In each configuration, the universal interface and transfer apparatus includes a port plate having a central opening, and a port door fitting within and sealing the central opening when no pod is present on the apparatus. The apparatus further includes a base and a frame mounted on and extending up from a front of the base. A modular drive assembly is mounted within an exterior side of the frame, which drive assembly includes a linear drive screw, and a motor and torque transmission mechanism for rotating the linear drive screw. A carriage is mounted on the linear drive screw such that rotation of the linear drive screw results in vertical translation of the carriage. In a first configuration, the port plate is mounted to the carriage via a bracket extending between the port plate and carriage so that rotation of the linear drive screw will vertically translate the port plate while the port door remains stationary. In a second configuration, the port door is mounted to the carriage via an arm extending between the port door and carriage, while the port plate is stationarily mounted to the frame so that rotation of the linear drive screw will vertically translate the port door while the port plate remains stationary.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for facilitating transfer of a workpiece-carrying cassette between a pod and a process tool, the container including a pod door and a pod shell, the apparatus comprising: a base; a frame affixed to said base; a translation assembly including a carriage capable of vertical translation with respect to said frame; a port plate capable of supporting the pod shell and said port plate capable of being affixed to said carriage to vertically translate with respect to said frame and said port plate capable of being stationarily affixed to said frame; a port door capable of supporting the pod door and said port door capable of being affixed to said carriage to vertically translate with respect to said frame and said port door capable of being stationarily affixed to said base; and means for affixing either said port plate or said port door to said carriage. 2. An apparatus for facilitating transfer of a workpiece-carrying cassette between a pod and a process tool as recited in claim 1, wherein said port plate is stationarily affixed to said frame and said means for affixing either said port plate or said port door to said carriage affixes said port door to said carriage. 3. An apparatus for facilitating transfer of a workpiece-carrying cassette between a pod and a process tool as recited in claim 1, wherein said port door is stationarily affixed to said base and said means for affixing either said port plate or said port door to said carriage affixes said port plate to said carriage. 4. An apparatus for facilitating transfer of a workpiece-carrying cassette between a pod and a process tool as recited in claim 1, further comprising a minienvironment extending between said base and said port plate. 5. An apparatus for facilitating transfer of a workpiece-carrying cassette between a pod and a process tool as recited in claim 1, wherein said port door is capable of horizontal translation with respect to said base. 6. An apparatus for facilitating transfer of a workpiece-carrying cassette between a pod and a process tool as recited in claim 1, wherein said port door is capable of pivoting around a pivot point on said base. 7. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and for presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus, the apparatus comprising: a base; a frame affixed to said base; a translation assembly including a carriage capable of vertical translation with respect to said frame; a port plate capable of being affixed to said carriage to vertically translate with respect to said frame and said port plate capable of being stationarily affixed to said frame; a port door capable of supporting the workpiece-carrying cassette and said port door capable of being affixed to said carriage to vertically translate with respect to said frame and said port door capable of being stationarily affixed to said base; and means for affixing one of said port plate and said port door to said carriage. 8. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the apparatus is mounted to a process tool for processing the workpiece, the apparatus presenting the workpiece-carrying cassette and/or the workpiece to the process tool. 9. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the apparatus is a stand alone unit. 10. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the apparatus presents the workpiece-carrying cassette and/or the workpiece to an operator for manual transfer away from the apparatus. 11. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the workpiece-carrying cassette is received on the apparatus within a cassette-carrying container, the apparatus including mechanisms for separating the workpiece-carrying cassette from the cassette-carrying container. 12. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the workpiece-carrying cassette is received on the apparatus without a container thereabout. 13. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein said port door is mounted for horizontal translation. 14. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 13, further comprising a vertical drive assembly, independent of said translation assembly for vertically translating said port door. 15. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, further comprising a bracket for mounting said port plate to said carriage. 16. An apparatus for receiving a workpiece-carrying cassette and presenting the workpiece carrying cassette and/or a workpiece from within the workpiece-carrying cassette for transfer away from the apparatus as recited in claim 7, further comprising an arm for mounting said port door to said carriage. 