Solid phase combinatorial synthesis is carried out in a multi-reactor synthesizer comprising an array of separate reactor cells (1-9) containing a solid reaction support medium (26). Subsets of the reactor cells (1-9) are interconnected with one another in a desired pattern, and, in a first reaction step, reagents (A, B, C) are circulated through the subsets. After the first reaction step is completed, the reactor cells (1-9) are rearranged into a new configuration of the subsets, and the same, or other, reagents (A, B, C) are circulated through the new subsets. The process can be repeated to produce large numbers of compounds differing from one another.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of synthesis comprising the steps of: interconnecting reactor cells in a first group of subsets, each subset consisting of plural reactor cells connected in series; causing reagents to flow in series through the reactor cells of each of the subsets of the first group; rearranging said reactor cells into a second group of subsets, each subset of the second group being different as a whole from every subset of the first group; and causing reagents to flow in series through the reactor cells of each of the subsets of the second group. 2. A method of synthesis according to claim 1 in which, in at least one of the steps of causing reagents to flow, each reagent is recirculated through a subset of reactor cells. 3. A method of synthesis according to claim 1 in which the rearranging step is carried out by moving at least some of the reactor cells to change the relative locations of the reactor cells. 4. A method of synthesis according to claim 1 in which the reactor cells are interconnected in said groups of subsets by directly connecting an outlet of every reactor cell except one in each subset with an inlet of an adjacent reactor cell in the same subset, and in which the rearranging step is carried out by disconnecting at least some of said reactor cells from one another, moving at least some of the disconnected reactor cells, and interconnecting said reactor cells to establish the second group of subsets. 5. A method of synthesis according to claim 1 in which the rearranging step is carried out by changing interconnections between reactor cells without changing the relative locations of the reactor cells. 6. A method of synthesis utilizing a set of reactor cells comprising: establishing, in each step of a series of successive steps, plural subsets of said reactor cells, each subset consisting of a plurality of reactor cells, in which the reactor cells in each subset are interconnected in series to provide a plurality of series flow paths, there being a series flow path through all of the reactor cells in each subset, and each subset established in each of said plural steps subsequent to a first such step comprising reactor cells from at least two different subsets established in a preceding one of said successive steps, and each subset established in each of said plural steps being different as a whole from every subset established in every other one of said plural steps; and causing reagents to flow in series through the reactor cells of each of the subsets. 7. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which the number of said plural successive steps is greater than two. 8. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which the subsets established in each of said plural successive steps include all of the reactor cells of the set. 9. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which, in causing reagents to flow in series through the reactor cells of each of the subsets, a reagent is recirculated through at least one of the subsets. 10. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which, in at least all but the first of said plural successive steps, the subsets of said reactor cells are established by moving at least some of the reactor cells to change the relative locations of said reactor cells. 11. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which the reactor cells in each subset are interconnected in series by directly connecting an outlet of every reactor cell except one in each subset with an inlet of an adjacent reactor cell in the same subset, and in which, in at least all but the first of said plural successive steps, the subsets of said reactor cells are established by moving at least some of the reactor cells. 12. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which, in at least all but the first of said plural successive steps, the subsets of said reactor cells are established by changing interconnections between reactor cells without changing the relative locations of the reactor cells. 13. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which the subsets of reactor cells established in the first of said plural successive steps are arranged in an array, and in which, in at each subsequent one of said plural successive steps, the subsets of said reactor cells are established by moving at least some of the reactor cells to change the relative locations of said reactor cells in the array. 14. A method of synthesis according to claim 6 in which the subsets of reactor cells established in the first of said plural successive steps are arranged in an array, and in which, in at each subsequent one of said plural successive steps, the subsets of said reactor cells are established by changing interconnections between reactor cells without changing the relative locations of the reactor cells in the array. 