A robot especially adapted for use in hazardous environments, and particularly adapted for explosives disposal, includes a wheeled platform carrying a winder mechanism which ensures that the remote control cable will not be fouled by the robot or its attachments. Coaxial with the winder mechanism is a turret mechanism that can rotate indefinitely and which carries thereon a manipulator arm section which, includes a first arm pivotable through about 110.degree. and which carries thereon a second arm which is pivotable through about 120.degree. and carries a bulkhead to which any of a plurality of end effectors can be connected by way of a quick connect and disconnect mechanism. The end effectors include a set of links having different lengths, one or two extension links, a wrist and gripper mechanism, an aiming and disruptor mechanism, and a relocatable surveillance camera. The robot is capable of controlled movement to or from a hazardous site; manoeuvring the wrist and gripper mechanism or the aiming and disruptor mechanism, by means of the manipulator arm, into close proximity with, to either move or destroy, a target. Rugged, zero-backlash joints blend precision and power for the end effectors to perform delicate, or not so delicate, operations. The wrist and gripper mechanism in combination with any or all of the extension links allows dextrous operations to be performed easily, even for an untrained operator. The robot is compact, highly manoeuvrable, relatively inexpensive, and meets the requirements of law enforcement, military and environmental agencies having a need for such a device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot especially adapted to handle hazardous material comprising: a) a wheeled base section carrying self-contained power means for the robot, said base section having a planar upper surface; b) a winding and payout mechanism rotatably mounted to said base section, said winding and payout mechanism containing a length of control cable, being freely rotatable through more than 360.degree. and including spool means rotatably and bearingly mounted to a first annular tube extending vertically of said base section, drive means for imparting rotating movement to said spool means, and arm means extending generally tangentially of said spool means for holding said control cable at a distance from said base section and carrying guide means for guiding said control cable to and from said spool means, c) a turret mechanism coaxial with said winding and payout mechanism and including a rotatable portion above said winding and payout mechanism; d) manipulator arm means mounted to said rotatable portion of said turret mechanism, said arm means including a base portion, a first arm pivotable at a proximal end thereof to said base portion, and a second arm pivotable between a proximal end thereof and a distal end thereof to said first arm adjacent a distal end thereof; e) actuating means for moving said first arm relative to said base portion and for moving said second arm relative to said first arm; f) quick connect and disconnect means at the distal end of said second arm and adapted to accept one or more of a plurality of attachments especially adapted to perform a variety of functions; g) said plurality of attachments including a plurality of link sections of different lengths, telescopic extension link means, a wrist and gripper mechanism, and an aiming and disruptor mechanism; h) said wrist and gripper mechanism being movable in yaw, pitch and roll, and including at least a pair of openable and closable gripper jaws, said wrist and gripper mechanism also being selectively connectable to a distal end of any one of said link sections and to a distal end of said telescopic link; i) control means connected to said control cable for selectively controlling the movement of said base section, said rotatable turret portion, said manipulator arm means, and said attachments; and j) a surveillance camera mechanism including yaw, pitch, zoom and focus capabilities, said camera mechanism being selectively connectable to said manipulator arm means, to any one of said link sections, to said telescopic link or to said aiming and disruptor mechanism. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said power means includes battery means and said base section houses said battery means and motor means connected to said battery means, and said base section mounts at least three support wheels spaced apart along each side of said base section, one pair of opposed wheels being drivingly connected to said motor means and the remaining wheels being drivingly connected to said one pair of wheels. 3. The robot of claim 2 including first and second sets of flexible track means for mounting to the wheels of said base section on each side thereof, said first set of tracks being narrower than said second set of tracks so that the overall width of a tracked robot carrying said first set of tracks is less than the width of a standard door opening. 4. The robot and track means of claim 3 including removable skids which attach to said base section and interface with the tracks in such a way as to provide an approximately linear surface for the tracks which enhance the stair climbing capability of said robot. 5. the robot of claim 2 including a pair of said battery operated motors, and a two-speed transmission drivingly connected to each said motor and to one of said one pair of opposed wheels. 6. The robot of claim 5 wherein said two-speed transmission includes gears for two different speed ratios which are selected remotely by said control means, and are switched by means of a small electric motor and actuator. 7. The robot of claim 1 wherein electrical slip ring means are fixed between and to said first annular tube and said spool means, one end of said control cable being connected to said slip ring means as are said control means, whereby control signals may pass from said control cable to said control means through said slip ring means. 8. The robot of claim 7 wherein said drive means includes a drive motor, a first spur gear connected to a shaft of said drive motor, and a second spur gear meshingly engaged with said first spur gear, said second spur gear extending through an opening in said first annular tube and meshingly engaging an internal spur gear connected to said spool means. 9. The robot of claim 8 wherein said guide means includes: a pulley arrangement adjacent a distal end of said arm means, said pulley arrangement containing a pair of guide rollers through which said control cable passes; and a housing depending from said distal end of said arm means, said housing containing an adjustable potentiometer and an elongated arm extending downwardly therefrom, said elongated arm carrying bushing means through which said control cable can pass. 10. The robot of claim 1 wherein said turret mechanism includes a second annular tube bearingly supported by said robot base section, a drive train drivingly attached to said second annular tube, a plate rigidly supporting said drive train relative to said robot base section, and a drive motor for imparting rotary movement thereto. 11. The robot of claim 10 wherein said drive train includes a brake connected to said last-mentioned drive motor, a gearhead connected to said last-mentioned drive motor, and a harmonic drive connected to said gearhead, the output shaft being said second annular tube. 12. The robot of claim 10 wherein: said manipulator arm means base portion is secured to said second annular tube for rotation therewith; said actuating means includes a first pair of linear actuators connected between said base portion and the distal end of said first arm to impart pivotal movement to said first arm, and a second pair of linear actuators connected between the proximal end of said first arm and the proximal end of said second arm to impart pivotal movement to said second arm relative to said first arm; and a bulkhead is provided at said distal end of said second arm, said quick connect and disconnect means being part of said bulkhead. 13. The robot of claim 12 wherein each of said link sections includes quick connect and disconnect means at each end thereof to facilitate attachment thereof to said bulkhead or to said extension link and to facilitate attachment thereto of said wrist and gripper mechanism, said extension link, or said aiming and disruptor mechanism. 14. The robot of claim 12 wherein said extension link includes outer and inner telescopic members, a linear actuator within said extension link connected at one end thereof to a proximal end of said outer telescopic member and at the other end thereof to a distal end of said inner telescopic member, linear rail bearings supporting said inner telescopic for linear movement within said outer telescopic member, and quick connect and disconnect means at the proximal end of said outer telescopic member and at the distal end of said inner telescopic member to facilitate attachment of said extension link to said bulkhead, or to one of said link sections and to facilitate attachment to said extension link of said wrist and gripper mechanism or said aiming and disrupter mechanism. 15. The robot of claim 1 wherein said wrist and gripper mechanism includes: a frame carrying a quick connect and disconnect mechanism for attachment to a bulkhead at said distal end of said second arm, to one of said link sections, or to said extension link; a first yoke rotatably connected to said frame for driven rotation about a vertical yaw axis; a second yoke connected to said first yoke and including a pair of spaced apart arm members; and a jaw assembly located between said arm members and mounted for driven rotation on a horizontal pitch axis extending transversely of said second yoke, said jaw assembly also being mounted for driven rotation on a roll axis, said jaw assembly including a pair of opposed pivotable and/or translational jaw members and a replaceable gripper member at a distal end of each said jaw member. 16. The robot of claim 11 wherein said aiming and disruptor mechanism includes: a flange carrying a quick connect and disconnect mechanism for attachment to a bulkhead at said distal end of said second arm, to one of said link sections, or to said extension link; a first yoke integral with said flange and defining a vertical yaw axis; a second yoke rotatably connected to said first yoke for driven rotation on said yaw axis; a pair of spaced apart plates extending from said second yoke and mounting therebetween on a pitch axis a bracket member for driven rotation on said pitch axis; a pair of water cannon members mounted to said bracket member; and means on said bracket member for attachment thereto of aiming or targeting means. 17. The robot of claim 16 wherein said aiming and disruptor mechanism includes a first servomotor within said first yoke drivingly connected to said second yoke for imparting rotational movement thereto on said yaw axis; and a second servomotor connected to one of said plates and to said bracket member for imparting rotational movement thereto on said pitch axis. 18. The robot of claim 16 wherein said aiming or targeting means comprises a video camera, a laser, or a video camera and a laser in combination. 19. The wrist and gripper mechanism of claim 15 including a first servomotor for imparting rotational movement to said first yoke on said yaw axis; an axle extending transversely of said second yoke on said pitch axis and mounting said jaw assembly thereto, there being a second servomotor for imparting rotational movement to said jaw assembly on said pitch axis; and a third servomotor for imparting rotational movement to said jaw assembly on said roll axis. 20. The robot of claim 1 wherein said surveillance camera includes: a limited yaw joint of about 355.degree. mobility with a motor and a gearhead connected to a selectively locatable mount, a limited pitch joint of about 355.degree. mobility with a motor and a gearhead connected to the yaw joint, a commercially available color camera, a commercially available zoom lens, a light, a microphone, and a housing enclosing the camera, zoom lens, light, microphone, and associated electronics. 