A method and workstation for optimizing chemical processes based on combinatorial chemistry, automation technology, and computer-controlled design is disclosed. The workstation includes a synthesizer, an analyzer, a robot and computer in communication with the synthesizer and analyzer. The computer includes one or more programs for regulating reaction parameters such as temperature, pressure, concentration of reagents and employs statistical methods for optimizing multiple reaction parameters and for designing optimized experiments for further investigation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying variables which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction; determining a range of values of the variables; choosing a finite number of experimental tests, wherein the experimental tests have values for the variables chosen from the range of values; providing a plurality of wells; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well; dispensing reagents into a plurality of wells chosen from the values for the experimental tests; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically generating a statistical analysis using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component in the samples and at least one of the variables identified in order to evaluate the reactions in the wells; automatically generating suggested parameters for future experiments using the computer wherein the suggested parameters are chosen from a new range of values based on the statistical analysis in order to optimize chemical synthesis, the new range of values being different from the range of values; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells using the suggested parameters; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using the suggested parameters; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; and analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the variables include operating conditions. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the variables include reagent concentrations. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein one of the variables includes choice of solvents. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein one of the variables includes reaction time. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein one of the variables includes temperature of reaction. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein one of the variables includes type of reagents. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein one of the variables includes amount of reagents. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of choosing a finite number of experimental tests includes randomly choosing values for the variables from the range of values. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of analyzing the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of product yield. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of analyzing the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of by-products. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of analyzing the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of unreacted reagents. 13. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of automatically generating a statistical analysis includes ranking the plurality of wells based on the amounts of the at least one component the at least one variable. 14. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of automatically generating a statistical analysis includes determining a most favorable reaction in one of the plurality of wells based on the amounts of the at least one component and the at least one variable. 15. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of automatically generating a statistical analysis includes graphically describing the reactions in the plurality of wells based on the amounts of the at least one component and the at least one variable. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein graphically describing the reactions includes generating multivariable contour maps. 17. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the new range of values is narrower than the range of values. 18. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: indentifying variables which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction; choosing a finite number of experimental tests, wherein the experimental tests have values for the variables, the values defining an experimental range; providing a plurality of wells; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well; synthesizing samples in the synthesizer using the values in the experimental tests; obtaining at least portions of the samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the portions of the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically generating a statistical analysis using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component in the samples and at least one of the variables indentified in order to evaluate the reactions in the wells; and automatically generating, using the computer, suggested parameters for future experiments based on the statistical analysis, the suggested parameters defining a suggested parameter range, the suggested parameter range being different from the experimental range. 19. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the variables include operating conditions and reagent concentrations. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the variables further include reaction times. 21. The method as claimed in claim 18 further comprising the step of determining a range of values of the variables. 22. The method as claimed in claim 21 wherein the values for the experimental tests are chosen from the range of values. 23. The method as claimed in claim 22 wherein the values for the experimental tests are chosen randomly from the range of values. 24. The method as claimed in claim 22 wherein the suggested parameters are chosen from a new range of values, the new range of values being narrower than the range of values. 25. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the step of analyzing the portions of the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of product yield. 26. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the step of analyzing the portions of the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of by-products. 27. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the step of analyzing the portions of the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of unreacted reagents. 28. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the step of automatically generating a statistical analysis includes determining a most favorable reaction in one of the plurality of wells based on the amounts of the at least one component and the at least one variable. 29. The method as claimed in claim 18 wherein the step of automatically generating a statistical analysis includes graphically describing the reactions in the plurality of wells based on the amounts of the at least one component and the at least one variable. 30. The method as claimed in claim 29 wherein graphically describing the reactions includes generating multivariable contour maps. 31. An apparatus for optimizing chemical synthesis comprising: a computer including a memory and a processor; a synthesizer in communication with the computer, the synthesizer having a plurality of wells, the synthesizer also having devices to control the atmospheric conditions of reactions in the plurality of wells; an analyzer in communication with the computer, the analyzer analyzing amounts of a least one component of the reactions; means for obtaining samples from the plurality of wells and transferring the samples to the analyzer; the apparatus configured to perform the steps of: synthesizing samples in the wells of the synthesizer based on experimental tests, the experimental tests having values for variables which affect chemical synthesis, the values defining an experimental range; obtaining at least portions of the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically generating a statistical analysis using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component in the samples and at least one of the variables identified in order to evaluate the reactions in the wells; and automatically generating, using the computer, suggested parameters for future experiments based on the statistical analysis, the suggested parameters defining a suggested parameter range, the suggested parameter range being different from the experimental range. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein the means for obtaining samples includes a robot. 33. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein the apparatus is further configured to perform the step of choosing the experimental tests. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the apparatus randomly chooses the experimental tests. 35. The method as claimed in claim 31 wherein the apparatus analyzes the portions of the samples using the analyzer to determine the amount of product yield. 36. The method as claimed in claim 31 wherein the apparatus analyzes the portions of the samples using the analyzer to determine the amount of by-products. 37. The method as claimed in claim 31 wherein the apparatus analyzes the portions of the samples using the analyzer to determine the amount of unreacted reagents. 