A robotic arm assembly in a transport module is expansible to have an effector at its end receive a substrate in a cassette module and is then contracted and rotated with the effector to have the effector face a process module. Planets on a turntable in the process module are rotatable on first parallel axes. The turntable is rotatable on a second axis parallel to the first axes to move successive planets to a position facing the effector. At this position, an alignment assembly is aligned with, but axially displaced from, one of the planets. This assembly is moved axially into coupled relationship with such planet and then rotated to a position aligning the substrate on the effector axially with such planet when the arm assembly is expanded. A lifter assembly aligned with, and initially displaced from, such planet is moved axially to lift the substrate from the effector. The arm assembly is then contracted, rotated with the effector and expanded to receive the next cassette module substrate. The lifter assembly is then moved axially to deposit the substrate on the planet. When the substrates have been deposited on the planets, the planets are individually rotated on the first axes by a stator rotatable on the second axis with the turntable. Guns having a particular disposition relative to the planets provide controlled depositions on the substrates during such planet rotations. The planets and the end effector hold the substrates at peripheral positions displaced from the controlled substrate depositions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing controlled depositions on a substrate, comprising: a planet rotatable on a particular axis, an alignment assembly in communication with the planet for rotating the planet about the particular axis to a particular position for receiving the substrate, a lifter assembly passable through an opening in the planet for depositing the substrate on the planet with the planet in the particular position, and for removing the substrate from the planet a gun disposed relative to the particular axis for providing a first one of the controlled depositions on the substrate with the substrate on the planet, the planet rotating on the particular axis during the operation of the gun in producing the first one of the controlled depositions on the substrate, the lifter assembly removing and rotating the substrate relative to the planet through an angle of substantially 90.degree. after the first one of the controlled depositions on the substrate and redepositing the substrate on the planet after the rotation of the substrate through the angle of substantially 90.degree., the gun then being operative to provide a second one of the controlled depositions on the substrate with the substrate on the planet, the planet rotating on the particular axis during the operation of the gun in producing the second controlled deposition on the substrate. 2. The system as set forth in claim 1, where the alignment assembly is disposed on the particular axis and movable on the particular axis in a first direction to a position for engaging the planet to rotate the planet on the particular axis to the particular position for receiving the substrate and then movable on the particular axis in a second direction opposite to the first direction to withdraw the alignment assembly from the planet. 3. The system as set forth in claim 1, where the lifter assembly is disposed on the particular axis and movable on the particular axis in a first direction to a position for receiving the substrate and then movable on the particular axis in a second direction opposite to the first direction to a position for depositing the substrate on the planet and subsequently movable on the particular axis in the second direction to withdraw the lifter assembly from the planet. 4. The system as set forth in claim 1, where the gun includes a target made from a material for depositing atoms of the material on the substrate and includes an anode disposed relative to the target for producing electrons for movement toward the target and including members providing a magnetic field for increasing the distance of travel of the electrons between the anode and the target and the substrate being rotated through the angle of substantially 90 relative to the planet after the first one of the controlled depositions on the substrate for equalizing the effects of the magnetic field in the first and second controlled depositions on the substrate. 5. The system as set forth in claim 1, further including a robot for moving the substrate to the particular axis for the transfer of the substrate to the lifter assembly and for withdrawing from the particular axis upon the transfer of the substrate to the lifter assembly. 6. The system as set forth in claim 5, where the lifter assembly is disposed on the particular axis and movable on the particular axis in a first direction to a position for receiving the substrate and then movable on the particular axis in a second direction opposite to the first direction to a position for depositing the substrate on the planet and subsequently movable on the particular axis in the second direction to withdraw the lifter assembly from the planet, and the gun including a target made from a material for depositing atoms of the material on the substrate and including an anode disposed relative to the target for producing electrons for movement toward the target and including members providing a magnetic field for increasing the distance of travel of the electrons between the anode and the target and the substrate being rotated through the angle of substantially 90.degree. relative to the planet after the deposit of the first one of the controlled depositions on the substrate to obtain a second one of the controlled depositions on the substrate for equalizing the effects of the magnet field in the first and second controlled depositions on the substrate. 