The present invention pertains to a method and apparatus for simulated training in physical movement using processing system images. Said images may be demonstrative images representing examples of any physical movement, user images that are idiosyncratically controlled by individual users, and/or any combination or separate display of both such images. Simulated training is directed to the personal, interactive control of displayed user controllable images such that the user acquires a level of know-how related to the physical movement of any particular image. Embodiments of the invention could include the physical movement of animals, bacteria, viruses, objects, living, mechanical and electromechanical or other systems and images from live video taping, or animated or computer generated images or live or robots real time images from any other source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of simulated training for at least one user interacting with at least one image displayed on a display means of a processing system, said method comprising the steps of: generating and storing in a memory means of the processing system, at least one processor displayed sequence of demonstrative images, wherein said at least one processor displayed sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of images of demonstrative performance of physical activity movements; further generating and storing, in said memory means, at least one processor displayed user controllable image, wherein said at least one processor displayed user controllable image comprises a user controllable image idiosyncratically controlled by said user to perform a series of simulated physical activity movements idiosyncratic interactive with said sequence of demonstrative images; displaying an image of said sequence of demonstrative images on the display means of said processing system; further displaying said user controllable image on said display means of said processing system, providing said at least one user with input means of said processing system to transmit inputs to said processing system for idiosyncratically controlling said user controllable image, such that instead of said at least one user performing said interactive movements, said user controllable image is controlled to perform said simulated physical activity movements idiosyncratically interactive with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images; storing, and maintaining in said memory means, a record of said movements representing said user controllable image as controlled by said input means such that said record is modified to represent said idiosyncratic movements as controlled by said input means; and displaying said movements of said user controllable image on said display means in sequence with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means, to said at least one user, to select from examples of said demonstrative physical activity movements. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to receive inputs from said at least one user to select the speed at which said series of images of demonstrative performance of said movements is displayed. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to coordinate the speed of use of said input controls from said at least one user with the speed at which said series of images of user controllable movements is displayed. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to receive inputs from said at least one user to control the speed at which the user controllable image is caused to move. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is displayed in a region of said display means that is adjacent to another region of said display means at which said series of images of demonstrative movements is displayed. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is superimposed upon the series of images of said demonstrative movements. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to receive inputs from said at least one user to control the direction of movement of said user controllable image. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control the location of said user controllable image. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of receiving input from said at least one user to control the locomotion of said user controllable image. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to receive inputs from said at least one user to control the posture of said user controllable image. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to receive inputs from said at least one said user to control the distance between said at least one user controllable image and at least one other user controllable image. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to receive inputs from said at least one user to control at least one item used in said simulated physical movement activity by said at least one user controllable image. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of simulated physical activity movements comprises a maneuver of said movements. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said input means comprises a virtual reality input device. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said display means comprises a virtual reality display device. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of said movements comprises a first maneuver; and said input means provides input, by at least one said user, to control at least one said user controllable image to move in performance of a second maneuver to interact with the first maneuver. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of said movements comprises a first maneuver; and said input means provides input, by at least one said user, to control at least one said user controllable image to move in performance of a second maneuver in opposition to the first maneuver. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said series of images of demonstrative performance of said movements comprises a first maneuver; and said input means provides input, by at least one said user, to control at least one said user controllable image to move in performance of a second maneuver in cooperation with the first maneuver. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controls movement of said at least one user controllable image to substantially respond to the movements of said displayed series of images of demonstrative performance of said movements. 21. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of displaying visible communications to said at least one user. 22. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of emitting audible communications to said at least one user. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing alphanumeric communications to said at least one user. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user further controls at least one additional user controllable image. 25. The method of claim 1 further comprising at least one additional remotely located user to control at least one additional user controllable image. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of simulated physical activity movements comprises simulated training for at least one of real physical movements and unreal physical movements. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user selects to substantially suspend from being displayed said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user selects to substantially suspend from being displayed said displayed image of said user controllable image. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user selects to substantially suspend said inputs to said processing system. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed image of said user controllable image is modified according to user specifications. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed image of said user controllable image is modified according to movements of said user controllable image. 32. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing means to said at least one user to select biomechanical parameters of said series of images of demonstrative movements. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein said at least one user is a physically challenged user controlling movement of at least one part of the virtual body of said user controllable image without moving a corresponding part of said physically challenged user's body. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user controls at least one part of the virtual body of said at least one user controllable image without moving a corresponding part of the user's body. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative movements are displayed in the foreground of said user controllable image. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of images of demonstrative movements are displayed in the background of said user controllable image. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein the process of said at least one user idiosyncratically interacting with said at least one image is communicated to at least one other remotely located user. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one displayed sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of images of objects representing said demonstrative movements. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein said displayed sequence of demonstrative images is responded to by user input controls to said processing system such that said at least one user's idiosyncratic controls are displayed as simulated responses made by said at least one user in the first person. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein said demonstrative image is comprised of a physical device. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is comprised of a physical device. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein said displayed sequence of demonstrative images is displayed on a holographic display. 43. The method of claim 1, wherein said displayed sequence of user controllable images is displayed on a holographic display. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein said demonstrative image is a member of a group comprised of at least one live image. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein two such said groups compete against one another. 46. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is a member of a group comprised of at least one live image. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein two such said groups compete against one another. 48. The method of claim 1, wherein prior user inputs to said processing system to control said user controllable image are stored in said memory means of said processing system. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein said stored inputs are selected by said user such that said user controllable image performs said movements as controlled by said stored memory inputs without further inputs from said user. 50. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one said user controllable image performs at least one said simulated movement that is independent of said at least one user's control. 51. The method of claim 1, wherein said demonstrative image uses a representation of a real item used in an activity representing said movements. 52. The method of claim 1, wherein said demonstrative image uses a representation of an unreal item used in an activity representing said movements. 53. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is displayed using a real item in an activity representing said movements. 54. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is displayed using an unreal item in an activity representing said movements. 55. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of evaluating by processing system means of said processing system, said simulated movements of said user controllable image with said sequence of demonstrative images. 56. The method of claim 55 further comprising the step of generating a processing system performance analysis of the user controllable image based on the result of said evaluation by said processor means. 57. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing system provides tactile feedback to said at least one user. 58. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image is controlled by said user to perform a demonstrative performance of said physical activity movements. 59. The method of claim 1, further comprising allowing said user to control said user controllable image by voice inputs. 60. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one of the demonstrative images and said at least one of the user controllable images are displayed in the same aspect. 61. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic parameters of said at least one of said demonstrative images are selected by said user. 62. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic parameters of said at least one of said user controllable images are selected by said user. 63. An article of manufacture comprising a processing system user medium having processor readable information embodied therein which evaluates a processing system displayed series of image sequences with a processing system displayed series of user idiosyncratically controlled image sequences comprising; means for generating a first sequence of processing system displayed images, said sequence comprising a series of discrete movements of at least one image as displayed by said processing system readable information; means for receiving said processing system controlled sequences, said sequences representing the processing system user's response to said processing system displayed first sequence; and means for evaluating said first and second sequences, and wherein said evaluation produces a result, said result providing an indication of the processing system user's demonstrated skill at responding to said first sequence. 64. A processing system for simulated training for at least one user interacting with said processing system comprising: a first memory means for storing at least one processing system displayed sequence of demonstrative images in a series, wherein said series of at least one of said processing system displayed sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of pre-recorded images illustrating performance of physical activity movements; a second memory means for storing at least one processing system displayed user controllable image in a series, wherein said series of at least one computer displayed user controllable image comprises images derived from biomechanical parameters and controlled by at least one user to perform a series of idiosyncratic simulated physical activity movements responsive to the movements of said series of idiosyncratic images of demonstrative performance of the activity; display means for displaying said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity with said series of user controllable images; input means, used by said at least one user, for transmitting input to said processing system to cause a series of user controllable images to perform a series of idiosyncratically controlled, simulated physical activity movements interactive with said movement of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity, without said user making corresponding movements, wherein said input comprises data controlling said movement of said user controllable image; and processing system means for storing said input from said at least one user in a third memory means; said processing system means for controlling said display means to display said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity and said series of user controllable images, for retrieving said stored input from said third memory means, for providing said at least one user with means to evaluate said movement of said series of user controllable images with said movement of said series of images of demonstrative performance of the activity, and for displaying the results of said data related to controlled movement of said user controllable image. 65. The processing system of claim 64, wherein said input means comprises a virtual reality input device. 66. The processing system of claim 64, wherein said display means comprises a virtual reality display device. 67. The processing system of claim 64, wherein said series of at least one user controllable image performs at least one simulated physical activity movement that is independent of the said user's control. 68. A method of simulated training for at least one user to interact with at least one image displayed on a display means of a processing system, said method comprising the steps of: recording and storing in a memory means of a processing system, a first series of discrete images, said discrete images collectively comprising a sequence of physical activity movements; further recording and storing in a memory means a second series of discrete images collectively comprising a sequence of idiosyncratic simulated physical activity movements responsive to said first series of discrete images; displaying, on a display means of said processing system, at least one of said discrete images in said first series, said displayed image comprising a first displayed image; further displaying on said display means, at least one of said discrete images in said second series, said displayed image comprising a second displayed image; sequentially displaying the next discrete images in said first series; receiving input from at least one user to control said second displayed image to substantially interact with said first displayed image instead of said at least one user performing said interactive movements to said first series of discrete images displayed during said sequentially displaying step; and providing means for said at least one user to evaluate said second displayed images with said first displayed images, thereby said user being instructed to learn said movements interactive with said sequentially displayed discrete images in said first series. 69. The method of claim 68 further comprising the step of providing processing means of said processing system to evaluate said control of said second displayed images interacting with said first series of discrete images in order to provide the result of the evaluation to said at least one user. 70. The method of claim 68, wherein said processing system displayed series of image sequences of first discrete movements is comprised of images of live activity. 71. A processing system product usable with a programmable processor having processor readable information embodied therein which interactively obtains a sequence of processing system user input controls comprising: processing system readable information which comprises at least a base set of displayable images; processing system readable information which generates a sequence of various positions of one or more of said base set of displayable images; processing system readable information which comprise at least one displayed template of said at least displayable image which enables image input controls by said processing system user, said image input controls representing a user's idiosyncratic interaction with said processing system information generated sequence; wherein a user's demonstrated skill is determined based on an evaluation of said processing system user image input controls sequence to said processing system information generated sequence. 72. The processing system program information product of claim 71, wherein said base set of displayed images comprises live activity. 73. The processing system program information product of claim 71, wherein said product comprises capability for distributed operation. 74. A method of interactively determining a processing system user's demonstrated skill based on said user's interaction with one or more processing system displayed images, said method comprising; providing a training sequence of discrete movements of at least one displayed image, said training sequence additionally comprising at least one of audible, alphanumeric and visual communication; providing a processing system user with a displayed representation of said one or more displayed images; accepting user input controls representing said processing system user's idiosyncratic interaction with said training sequence; and evaluating said user input controls to said training sequence, scoring said evaluation, said scoring representing said processing system user's demonstrated skill. 75. The method of claim 74, wherein a multimedia method of interactively determining a processing system user's demonstrated skill is based on said user's interacting with input controls in said training sequence. 76. A method of improving a processing system user's simulated training skills based on interaction with one or more processing system displayed images, said method comprising: providing a training sequence of discrete movements of one or more displayed images, said training sequence representing at least one movement; providing a processing system user with a displayed representation of said one or more displayed images; accepting idiosyncratic user input controls representing said processing system user's response to said at least one movement; evaluating said user input controls to said training sequence, scoring said evaluation, said scoring representing said processing system user's demonstrated skill in interacting with said at least one movement. 77. The method of claim 76 wherein improving a processing system user's simulated training skills comprises said at least one movement which represents at least one of a coaching and training decision. 78. A method of simulated training for a least one user using personal, interactive, idiosyncratic, physical movement to control at least one image displayed by a processing system, said method comprising the steps of: generating and storing in a memory means of said processing system, at least one processor displayable sequence of demonstrative images, wherein said at least one processor displayable sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of images of demonstrative performance of physical movements; further generating, storing and maintaining in said memory means, at least one processor displayable user controllable image, wherein said at least one processor displayable user controllable image comprises a user idiosyncratically controllable image controlled by said user so as to perform a sequence of personal, interactive, idiosyncratic, simulated physical movements interacting with said sequence of demonstrative images; displaying an image of said sequence of demonstrative images on a display means of said processing system; further displaying said user controllable image on said display means of said processing system, providing said at least one user with input means of said processing system to transmit inputs to said processing system for controlling said user controllable image, such that instead of displaying the movement of said at least one user performing said movement, said user controllable image is controlled to perform said movements interactive with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images; storing and maintaining in said memory means, movements representing said user controllable image as controlled by said input means; displaying said simulated physical movements of said user controllable image on said display means with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images; and providing said at least one user with means to compare said movement of said user controllable image to said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images, thereby said user being instructed to learn said simulated movements interactive with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images. 79. The method of claim 78, wherein said sequence of images of demonstrative performance of an activity is comprised of images of at least one of live images or videotaping images or animated or computer generated images of at least one of things, objects or systems. 80. The method of claim 78, wherein said at least one user controllable image is comprised of an image of said at least one of live images or videotaping images or animated or computer generated images of at least one of things, objects or systems. 81. The method of claim 78, wherein said user controllable image is idiosyncratically controlled by the user to perform a demonstrative performance of said movements. 82. The method of claim 78, further comprising allowing said user to control said user controllable image by voice inputs. 83. The method of claim 78, wherein said at least one of the demonstrative images and said at least one of the user controllable images are displayed in the same aspect. 84. The method of claim 78, wherein the characteristic parameters of said at least one of said demonstrative images are selected by the user. 85. The method of claim 78, wherein the characteristic parameters of said at least one of said user controllable images are selected by the user. 