An apparatus for precisely steering a beam of light by making use of a hybrid inter optical alignment precision which occurs when a beam steering mechanism is micromachined with respect to a crystallographic orientation of a substrate.
Claims I claim: 1. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a substrate defining one or more aligned cavities; a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam; an upper cavity provided in a portion of said substrate that is aligned to a predetermined degree of precision and in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a beam steering means provided in said upper cavity for controllably directing said beam, the beam steering means including: a frame; and a reflecting element coupled to the frame by at least one torsion hinge; and at least one cantilever hinge coupling the beam steering device to an edge of the upper cavity. 2. The optical beam steering apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one cantilever hinge further comprises an insulating layer and a conducting layer. 3. The optical beam steering apparatus of claim 2 wherein the insulating layer is a silicon nitride layer. 4. The optical beam steering apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reflecting element is a mirror. 5. The optical beam steering apparatus of claim 4 wherein the mirror includes a multi-layer dielectric stack. 6. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a substrate defining one or more aligned cavities; a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam; an upper cavity provided in a portion of said substrate that is aligned to a predetermined degree of precision and in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a beam steering means provided in said upper cavity for controllably directing said beam; and a cantilever hinge means for flexibly connecting said beam steering means with any upper edge of said upper cavity, other than that side coincident with said primary optical path means; said beam steering means having at least a reflective upper surface, such that said beam steering means is disposed within said upper cavity causing an impinging beam of light emanating from said primary optical path means to be controllably deflected in a generally upwards direction and wherein a beam of light entering from above said upper cavity is controllably deflected towards said primary optical path means. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6 further comprising: a secondary optical element means for accommodating a beam of light, said secondary optical element means disposed adjacent to said upper cavity; an alignment means for aligning said secondary optical element adjacent to said upper cavity, such that the secondary optical element is substantially centered above the upper cavity and the optical axis of the secondary optical element is aligned to a predetermined angle with respect to a surface normal emanating from an upper surface of said substrate. 