A novel process for creating aesthetically pleasing multicolor designs and patterns in cast materials, particularly cementitious materials, which may be used to imitate natural stone in appearance. The process includes the steps of preparing multiple colors of the casting material, geometrically loading these colors in a three dimensional array in a holding container according to formulas corresponding to particular patterns to be created, placing the geometrically loaded colors into a mold by means which include pouring, extruding and spraying, consolidating the mixtures in the mold and allowing them to set, and removing the cast structure from the mold followed by polishing and sealing if required. A removable matrix in the holding container provides the ability to reliably repeat patterns according to the loading formulas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A kit for producing cast articles having a pattern simulating natural stone comprising: a plurality of packages of pre-measured and pre-mixed, colored, dry cementitious ingredients; a loading container and removable dividing matrix therefor; instructions for preparing individual wet mixes from said dry ingredients; a chart keyed to divisions of said matrix and designating an order for loading said container with said wet mixes to create a specific three-dimensional array in said container; and pouring criteria directing the manner for transfer of the loaded mixes from said container into a mold. 2. The kit of claim 1 further comprising a combination pouring chamber and baffle removably mountable to said container and providing a pouring path for said loaded mixes from said container to said mold whereby said three-dimensional array is converted into a substantially linear pattern corresponding to a simulated natural stone pattern. 3. The kit of claim 2 wherein said container comprises a flexible bladder and said combination pouring chamber and baffle comprises a nozzle mountable in said bladder, whereby said loaded mixes are extruded from said bladder through said nozzle in response to pressure exerted against the outside of said bladder. 4. The kit of claim 2 wherein said container comprises a rigid cylinder, said combination pouring chamber and baffle comprise a nozzle structure mountable on one end of said cylinder, and said kit further comprises a piston assembly mountable to the other end of said cylinder whereby said piston fits within said cylinder and exerts a force against said loaded mixes to extrude said mixes through said nozzle. 