A method for fabricating a silicon-on-sapphire wafer for processing by silicon-wafer-processing equipment. A layer is deposited on a backside of a silicon-on-sapphire wafer, the layer having optical and electrical properties of silicon, wherein the silicon-on-sapphire wafer may be sensed by a sensor designed to sense a presence of a silicon wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. method for fabricating a silicon-on-sapphire wafer for processing by silicon-wafer-processing equipment, the method comprising: depositing a polycrystalline silicon layer on a backside of a silicon-on-sapphire wafer, the layer including a doped region having an electrical property with a value sufficient to permit recognition of the wafer by a device designed to detect wafers based on the electrical property, wherein the electrical property is a resistivity less than about 50 ohms per square. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of depositing a layer comprises depositing a polycrystalline layer of at least about 2 microns thick. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising implanting a dopant in the polycrystalline layer. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said step of implanting a dopant in the polycrystalline layer includes implanting the dopant at an energy of about 175 KeV. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of implanting the dopant at an energy of about 175 KeV includes implanting phosphorous ions at a dose of about 1.0e16 l/cm at an energy of about 175 KeV. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising depositing a silicon nitride layer over the polycrystalline silicon layer including a doped region. 7. A method for fabricating a silicon-on-sapphire wafer, the method comprising: depositing a doped silicon layer on a backside of a silicon-on-sapphire wafer; and depositing a silicon nitride layer on the doped silicon layer, wherein the doped silicon layer and the silicon nitride layer provide the silicon-on-sapphire wafer with an electrical property having a value at least as high as that required by a sensor designed to sense a presence of a silicon wafer based on a value of the electrical property. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of depositing a doped silicon layer on a backside of a silicon-on-sapphire wafer comprises: depositing a polycrystalline silicon layer on the backside of the silicon-on-sapphire wafer; and implanting a dopant in the layer of polycrystalline silicon. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of depositing a polycrystalline silicon layer on the backside of the silicon-on-sapphire wafer comprises depositing a polycrystalline silicon layer on the backside of the silicon-on-sapphire wafer of at least about 2 microns thick. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of depositing a polycrystalline silicon layer on the backside of the silicon-on-sapphire wafer comprises depositing a layer of polycrystalline silicon on the backside of the silicon-on-sapphire wafer using a low pressure chemical vapor deposition process. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of depositing a silicon nitride layer comprises depositing a silicon nitride layer from about 500 .ANG. to about 5000 .ANG. thick. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of depositing a silicon nitride layer comprises depositing the silicon nitride layer using low pressure chemical vapor deposition. 