Methods and apparatuses for assemblying, handling, and fabrication are disclosed in which targets are used on objects. The targets can be specifically applied to the object, or can be an otherwise normal feature of the object. Conveniently, the targets are removable from the object or covered by another object during an assemblying process. One or more robots and imaging devices for the targets are used. The robots can be used to handle or assemble a part, or a fixture may be used in conjunction with the robots. Conveniently, the CAD design system is used in designing the targets as well as for the assembly process using the targets. A plurality of targets can also be used to monitor and inspect a forming process such as on a sheet panel.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of creating a data base for an object having at least first and second discrete targets thereon in a pattern, said method comprising: electro-optically sensing, with an electro-optical sensing means, the pattern of said first target and said second target; and using a processing means, creating a data base of said object using said sensed pattern of said first target and said second target, said created data base comprising said sensed pattern of said first and second targets. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein one of said first and second targets comprises an artificial target. 3. A method according to claim 1, further providing a predetermined data base of the object and comparing said created data base of said object to said predetermined data base. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising, modifying a predetermined data base of the object based upon said created data base of said object. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said predetermined data base comprises a design data base of said object. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the shape of said object is changed alter said data base of said object is created by said processing means, said method further comprising: electro-optically sensing a changed pattern of said first and second targets on said changed object; and creating a further data base of said object using said sensed changed pattern of said first and second targets on said changed object. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said further data base is created by modifying said created data base based of said sensed changed pattern of said first and second targets on said changed object. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said object is one of a plurality of objects being processed in an manufacturing line, said method further comprising feeding back information related to each said created data base of a process in advance of said electro-optical sensing step in said method. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said object is one of a plurality of objects being processed in a manufacturing line. said method further comprising feeding forward information related to said data base to a process subsequent to said electro-optical sensing step in said method. 10. A method according to claim 1, further comprising, using said processing means, controlling a function related to said object based upon said created data base of said object. 11. A method according to claim 10, further comprising again electro-optically sensing the pattern of said first and second targets on said object after controlling said function related to said object. 12. A method according to claim 1, further comprising electro-optically sensing an image of the surface of said object and creating said data base of said object using said image of the surface of said oblect. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein a grey level image of the surface of said object is electro-optically sensed and said grey level image is used in creating said data base of said object. 14. A method according to claim 12, wherein one electro-optically sensing means is used for sensing said pattern of said first and second targets and for sensing said image of the surface of said object. 15. A method according to claim 1, said method further comprsing illuminating one of said first and second targets. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein said one of said first and second targets is illuminated with radiation outside of the visible wavelengths. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein said one of said first and second targets is illumninated with infrared radiation. 18. A method according to claim 15, wherein said one of said first and second targets is illuminated intermittently. 19. A method according to claim 15, wherein said one of said first and second targets comprises a retro-reflective target and said illumination is along an axis substantially parallel to the axis of said electro-optical sensing. 20. A method according to claim 1, further comprising determining an orientation of said object with respect to said sensed pattern of said first and second targets and further creating said data base using determined orientation. 21. A method according to claim 1, wherein said pattern of said at least first and second targets includes at least a third discrete target and said pattern of at least first, second and third targets is electro-optically sensed in three dimensions. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said pattern of said first and second targets is electro-optically sensed by an electro-optical sensing means comprising at least two photodetector arrays. 23. A method as in claim 1, wherein one of said first and second targets is a natural target on said object. 24. A method as in claim 1, wherein one of said first and second targets is an artificial target and one of said first and second targets is a natural target on said object. 25. Apparatus for creating a data base for an object having at least first and second discrete targets thereon in a pattern, said apparatus comprising: electro-optical sensing means for sensing the pattern of said first target and said second target; and processing means for creating a data base of said object using said sensed pattern of said first target and said second target, said data base comprising said sensed pattern of said first and second targets. 26. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein one of said first and second targets comprises an artificial target. 27. Apparatus according to claim 25, further comprising means for comparing said created data base of said object to a predetermined data base of the object. 28. Apparatus according to claim 25, further comprising, means for modifying a predetermined data base of the object based upon said created data base of said object. 29. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said predetermined data base comprises a design data base of said object. 30. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the shape of said object is changed after said data base of said object is created by said processing means, said apparatus further comprising electro-optical sensing means for sensing a changed pattern of said first and second targets on said changed object, and wherein said processing means creates a further data base of said object using said sensed changed pattern of said first and second targets on said changed object. 31. Apparatus according to claim 30, wherein said further data base is created by modifying said created data base based on said sensed changed pattern of said first and second targets on said changed object. 32. Apparatus according to claim 29, wherein said object is one of a plurality of objects being processed in a manufacturing line, said method further comprising means for feeding back information related to each said created data base to a process in advance of said electro-optical sensing means. 33. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said object is one of a plurality of objects being processed in a manufacturing line, said method further comprising means for feeding forward information related to said created data base to a process subsequent to said processing means. 34. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said processing means controls a function related to said object based upon said created data base of said object. 35. Apparatus according to claim 34, further comprising electro-optical sensing means for sensing the pattern of said first and second targets after controlling said function related to said object. 36. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said electro-optical sensing means senses an image of the surface of said object and said processing means creates said data base of said object using said sensed image of the surface of said object. 37. Apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said electro-optical sensing means senses a grey level image of the surface of said object and said processing means uses said grey level image in creating said data base of said object. 38. Apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said electro-optical sensing means comprises two electro-optical sensors and wherein one of said electro-optical sensors senses said pattern of said first and second targets and another of said electro-optical sensors senses said image of the surface of said object. 39. Apparatus according to claim 25, said apparatus further comprising means for illuminating one of said first and second targets. 40. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said means for illuminating illuminates said one of said first and second targets with radiation outside of the visible wavelengths so as to minimize interference from ambient light. 41. Apparatus according to claim 40, wherein said means for illuminating illuminates said one of first and second targets with infrared radiation, so as to minimize interference from ambient light. 42. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said means for illuminating illuminates said one of said first and second targets intermittently, so as to minimize interference from ambient light. 43. Apparatus according to claim 39, wherein said one of said first and second targets comprises a retro-reflective target and said means for illuminating illuminates said artificial target along an axis substantially parallel to the axis of said electro-optical sensing means. 44. Apparatus according to claim 25, further comprising means for determining an orientation of said object with respect to said sensed pattern of said object, and wherein said processing means creates said data base using said determined orientation. 45. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said electro-optical sensing means comprises at least two photodetector arrays for sensing said pattern of said targets in three dimensions. 46. Apparatus as in claim 25, wherein one of said first and second targets comprises a natural target on said object. 47. Apparatus as in claim 25, wherein one of said first and second targets is an artificial target and one of said first and second targets is a natural target on said object. 