A topological panorama camera has a track or other system upon which a linescan camera can move in one, two or three dimensions while recording the image of an object. The path, speed, acceleration and direction of the linescan camera can be controlled, as can the path, speed, acceleration and direction of the object. Further, the scan rate of the camera and the orientation of the scan can be controlled. These factors allow the user to record an image of an object which change many of the properties of the object. The relative motion of the linescan camera and the object allows a student to create images which change properties of an object from one geometry to another.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of teaching a geometry of relative motion, comprising the steps of: providing an object having a known geometric shape; identifying a desired shape that can be produced through a continuous sampling of the known shape and relative motion, wherein said desired shape has different extrinsic properties than said geometric shape, or has different intrinsic properties from said geometric shape, or has a different orientation than said geometric shape, or is of a different geometric class than said geometric shape, or is a product of two shapes, or is a sum of two shapes; generating a prospective image of said desired shape by relative movement between a line sensing recorder and the object in a predetermined path while recording said prospective image. 2. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the step of comparing the prospective image with said desired shape and changing said predetermined path if said prospective image is not substantially the same as said desired shape. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the steps of generating a plurality of separate images in a plurality of respective scan paths and combining said separate images to form said prospective image. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein one or more of the separate images overlaps with another image. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein one or more of the images which overlap are added to a previous image to create a multiple exposure image. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the step of recording an image using an array of photosensitive electronic cells. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the step of recording an image using an array of electronic cells sensitive to infra red light. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the step of recording an image using a linescan camera. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said object has a shape in a first geometric class and said step of recording comprises the step of performing relative motion between the image recorder and said object to generate a shape in a second geometric class. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said object has a Euclidean shape and the step of recording comprises the step of performing relative motion between said image recorder and said object to generate a non-Euclidean shape. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said object is a Euclidean shape step of generating an image comprises the step of performing relative motion between said image recorder and said object to generate a topological shape. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said object contains diagonal line segments and said step of generating an image comprises the step of accelerating said image recorder and said object relative to one another. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of generating an image comprises the step of rotating said object relative to said image recorder. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of generating an image comprises the step of performing relative motion between said image recorder and said object to create a straight path between said image recorder and said object. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of generating an image comprises the step of performing relative motion between said image recorder and said object to create a curved path between said image recorder and said object. 16. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the step of analyzing the prospective image to determine information about the object. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the steps of generating said prospective image using a plurality of path segments each having a respective motion profile. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said step of generating a prospective image using a plurality of path segments comprises the step of generating said prospective image using path segments having different linear profiles, such that a prospective image with a non-linear profile is produced. 19. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the step of generating Euler's number for the object based on the image. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein said desired shape is the product of two shapes. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein said desired shape is the sum of two shapes. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of generating a prospective image comprises the step of generating an image with a non-Euclidean geometry. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of generating a prospective image comprises the step of generating an image with an extrinsic geometry which differs from an intrinsic property of the object. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of generating a prospective image comprises the step of generating an image with an intrinsic geometry which differs from an intrinsic property of the object. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the step of generating a prospective image of said desired shape by computer simulation of relative movement between a line sensing recorder and the object in a predetermined path while recording said prospective image. 26. The method of claim 1 and further comprising the step of analyzing the prospective image to determine information about the object. 27. The method of claim 1 wherein said generating step comprises the steps of generating said prospective image using a plurality of path segments each having a respective motion profile. 28. A method of translating a frequency and amplitude of a sound to an image, comprising the steps of: providing an object of known shape; providing frequency and amplitude information describing a sound wave; generating an image representing the sound wave by relative movement between a line sensing recorder and the object in a predetermined path defined by said frequency and amplitude information. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein said step of providing frequency and amplitude information comprises the steps of providing one or more conversion tables for relating frequencies to image widths and a second conversion table for relating amplitudes to image heights. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating a relative movement between said object at a motion profile defining a speed of relative motion and a scan rate for the line sensing recorder. 31. The method of claim 28 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating a movement between said object and said line sensing recorder such that the distance between said object and said line sensing recorder is based on said amplitude information. 32. The method of claim 29 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating a relative movement between said object and said line sensing recorder at a speed and scan rate based on an desired image width. 33. The method of claim 29 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating a relative movement between said object and said line sensing recorder at a distance based on an desired image height. 34. A method of translating an image to a sound wave, wherein said image is representative of a known object being scanned using a line sensing recorder, comprising the steps of: providing one or more conversion tables relating the width of an object in the image to a frequency and the height of an object with a amplitude; measuring a width and height object from the image; translating the width and height to a frequency and amplitude for the sound wave. 35. The method of claim 34 and further comprising the step of generating an audible sound wave at said frequency and amplitude. 36. The method of claim 34 and further comprising the step identifying a scan rate and speed of relative motion related to a frequency. 37. The method of claim 34 and further comprising the step of identifying a distance between the line scanning recorder and the object related to an amplitude. 38. The method of claim 34 and further comprising the step of generating a second image responsive to said frequency and amplitude. 39. A method of deriving information about an object using a line sensing recorder, comprising the steps of: recording an image of a relative motion between the object and a line sensing recorder using known operating parameters; identifying image characteristics which indicate a characteristic of the object; and deriving one or more of the characteristics shape, surface or motion of the object from the image by reference to the image and the operating parameters. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein said deriving step comprises the step of deriving that the object has a Euclidean shape. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein said deriving step comprises the step of deriving that the object has a non-Euclidean shape. 42. The method of claim 39 wherein said deriving step comprises the step of deriving that the object has a topological shape. 43. The method of claim 39 wherein said deriving step comprises the step of deriving extrinsic properties of the object. 44. The method of claim 39 wherein said deriving step comprises the step of deriving intrinsic properties of the object. 45. The method of claim 39 wherein said recording step comprises the step of accelerating said line sensing recorder relative to said object. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein said acceleration is non-linear. 47. The method of claim 39 wherein said recording step comprises the step of rotating said object relative to said line sensing recorder. 48. The method of claim 39 wherein said recording step comprises the step of moving the line sensing recorder on a curved path relative to said object. 49. The method of claim 39 wherein said recording step comprises the step of moving the line sensing recorder in a three dimensional path relative to said object. 50. The method of claim 39 wherein said step of recording an image includes the step of generating a plurality of separate sub-images are combined to form the image. 51. The method of claim 39 wherein said sub-images overlap. 52. The method of claim 39 wherein said step of recording an image comprises the steps of generating said image using a plurality of path segments each having a respective motion profile. 53. The method of claim 39 wherein said sub-images form a multiple exposure image. 54. The method of claim 39 wherein said analyzing step comprises the step of deriving Euler's number for the object. 55. The method of claim 39 wherein said analyzing step comprises the step of determining an orientation of the image to determine information about the path of the object. 56. A method of teaching a geometry of relative motion, comprising the steps of: providing an object having a known geometric shape; identifying a desired shape that can be produced through a continuous sampling of the known shape and relative motion; generating a prospective image of said desired shape by relative movement between a line sensing recorder and the object in a predetermined path while recording said prospective image, such that the relative movement between the line sensing recorder and the object causes a transformation which changes the extrinsic properties of said geometric shape, or changes the intrinsic properties of said geometric shape, or changes the orientation of said geometric shape, or creates a sum or two shapes, or creates a product of two shapes, or the mapping is a non-Euclidean mapping or is a Euclidean mapping. 57. The method of claim 56 and further comprising the step of comparing the prospective image with said desired shape and changing said predetermined path if said prospective image is not substantially the same as said desired shape. 58. The method of claim 56 wherein said generating step comprises the step of recording an image using an array of photosensitive electronic cells. 59. The method of claim 56 wherein said generating step comprises the step of moving said camera in a three dimensional path. 60. The method of claim 56 wherein said generating step comprises the step of moving said object while the camera remains in a fixed position. 61. The method of claim 56 wherein said generating step comprises the step of moving said object and the camera while the prospective image is recorded. 62. A method of teaching geometry, comprising the steps of: receiving image lines to be combined to form an image in a line sensing image recorder; moving said object and said line sensing image recorder while said line sensing image recorder is receiving said image lines; and generating an image of said object from said image lines. 63. The method of claim 62 wherein said moving step includes the step of rotating said object. 64. The method of claim 62 wherein said moving step includes the step of moving said object along a line. 65. An imaging apparatus for generating an image of an object comprising: a line sensing image recorder for receiving image lines to be combined to form an image; movement apparatus for moving said line sensing image recorder in a three dimensional path about said object while said line sensing image recorder is receiving said image lines; and a computer for controlling said movement apparatus responsive to user selected criteria. 66. The imaging apparatus of claim 65 wherein said line sensing image recorder is an electronic line sensing image recorder. 67. The imaging apparatus of claim 66 wherein said electronic line sensing image recorder is a line scan camera. 68. The imaging apparatus of claim 66 wherein said computer receives image data from said electronic line sensing image recorder. 69. The imaging apparatus of claim 65 wherein said line sensing image recorder is a film based image recorder. 70. The imaging apparatus of claim 65 wherein said movement apparatus comprises a first track for controlling movement of the line sensing image recorder in a first direction, a second track for controlling movement of the line sensing image recorder in a second direction, and a third track for controlling movement of the line sensing image recorder in a third direction. 71. The imaging apparatus of claim 70 wherein said first, second and third directions are orthogonal to each other. 72. The imaging apparatus of claim 65 wherein the line sensing image recorder is coupled to the movement apparatus with a jointed connection. 73. The imaging apparatus of claim 72 wherein said jointed connection is a robotic joint which allows pitch, tilt and roll of said line sensing image recorder relative to said movement apparatus as said line sensing image recorder is receiving lines. 74. A method of generating an image comprising the steps of: receiving image lines to be combined to form an image with a line sensing image recorder; moving the line sensing image recorder in a three dimensional path about said object while said line sensing image recorder is receiving said image lines; and controlling movement of said line sensing image recorder responsive to user selected criteria. 75. The method of claim 74 wherein said moving step comprises moving said line sensing recorder along a first track for controlling movement of the line sensing image recorder in a first direction, moving said line sensing recorder along a second track for controlling movement of the line sensing image recorder in a second direction and moving said line sensing recorder along a third track for controlling movement of the line sensing image recorder in a third direction. 76. The method of claim 75 wherein said first, second and third directions are orthogonal to each other. 77. The method of claim 74 wherein said movement step further comprises the step of providing pitch, tilt and roll of said line sensing image recorder . 