A low profile, compact atomic layer deposition reactor (LP-CAR) has a low-profile body with a substrate processing region adapted to serve a single substrate or a planar array of substrates, and a valved load and unload port for substrate loading and unloading to and from the LP-CAR. The body has an inlet adapted for injecting a gas or vapor at the first end, and an exhaust exit adapted for evacuating gas and vapor at the second end. The LP-CAR has an external height no greater than any horizontal dimension, and more preferably no more than two-thirds any horizontal dimension, facilitating a unique system architecture. An internal processing region is distinguished by having a vertical extent no greater than one fourth the horizontal extent, facilitating fast gas switching. In some embodiments one substrate at a time is processed, and in other embodiments there may be multiple substrates arranged in the processing region in a planar array. The compact reactor is distinguished by individual injectors, each of which comprise a charge tube formed between a charge valve and an injection valve. The charge valve connects the charge tube to a pressure regulated supply, and the injection valve opens the charge tube into the compact reactor. Rapidly cycling the valves injects fixed mass-charges of gas or vapor into the compact reactor. Multiple such compact reactors are stacked vertically, interfaced into a vacuum handling region having a Z-axis robot and a load/unload opening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A low-profile, compact, atomic layer deposition reactor (LP-CAR), comprising: a body having a length, a width, and a height, the height equal to or less than either the width or length, wherein the length and height define first and second sides opposite one another, and the width and height define first and second ends opposite one another; a substrate processing region within the body, adapted to enclose a substrate during processing; a load/unload port in the first side, the load/unload port opening to the substrate processing region and adapted for passing a substrate into and out of the substrate processing region; a retractable support pedestal extendable into the substrate processing region in the direction of the height, for supporting a substrate during processing; a remotely-operable vacuum valve connected to the first side, the vacuum valve adapted to open and close the load/unload opening executing a vacuum seal in the closed position; an inlet adapted for injecting a gas or vapor at the first end; and an exhaust exit adapted for evacuating gas and vapor at the second end. 2. The LP-CAR of claim 1 wherein the body height is no more than two-thirds of the larger of the length and width. 3. The ILP-CAR of claim 1 further comprising a heater adapted for heating a substrate supported on the support pedestal and cooling lines for passing coolant through a portion of the body. 4. The LP-CAR of claim 1 wherein the gas inlet comprises one or more valved charge tubes for injecting one of a gas or vapor into the substrate processing region, the charge tube comprising a volume closed at one end by a remotely operable charge valve and at the other end by a remotely operable injection valve, the end having the injection valve being connected to the gas inlet, such that with the injection valve closed and the charge valve open to a source of gas or vapor under pressure the charge tube may be charged with a specific mass of the gas or vapor, and with the charge valve closed and the injection valve open the specific mass of gas or vapor may be expended into the substrate processing region. 5. The LP-CAR of claim 4 further comprising a vacuum exhaust system connected to the exhaust exit. 6. The LP-CAR of claim 4 comprising two or more charge tubes adapted to be connected to separate gas and vapor sources. 7. The LP-CAR of claim 1 further comprising a vacuum seal interface for applying the first side of the reactor through a wall of a vacuum chamber such that the load/unload port is in the vacuum chamber and the balance of the compact reactor is outside the vacuum chamber. 8. The LP-CAR of claim 1 wherein, in the substrate processing region has a vertical extent and an horizontal extent, and wherein the vertical extent is no more than one-fourth of the horizontal extent. 9. The LP-CAR of claim 8 adapted for processing a single substrate per process cycle, wherein the horizontal extent is no more than 1.5 times the largest substrate dimension. 10. The LP-CAR of claim 1 adapted for processing multiple substrates per process cycle, wherein the substrates are presented in the processing region in a horizontal plane. 11. A low-profile, compact, atomic layer deposition reactor (LP-CAR), comprising: a body having a length, a width, and a height, wherein the length and height define first and second sides opposite one another, and the width and height define first and second ends opposite one another; a substrate processing region within the body, adapted to enclose a substrate during processing; an inlet adapted for injecting a gas or vapor at the first end; and an exhaust exit adapted for evacuating gas and vapor at the second end; wherein the gas inlet comprises one or more valved charge tubes for injecting one of a gas or vapor into the substrate processing region, each charge tube comprising a volume closed at one end by a remotely operable charge valve and at the other end by a remotely operable injection valve, the end having the injection valve being connected to the gas inlet, such that with the injection valve closed and the charge valve open to a source of gas or vapor under pressure the charge tube may be charged with a specific mass of the gas or vapor, and with the charge valve closed and the injection valve open the specific mass of gas or vapor may be expended into the substrate processing region. 12. The LP-CAR of claim 11 further comprising a load/unload port in the first side, the load/unload port opening to the substrate processing region and adapted for passing a substrate into and out of the substrate processing region; a retractable support pedestal extendable into the substrate processing region in the direction of the height, for supporting a substrate during processing; and a remotely-operable vacuum valve connected to the first side, the vacuum valve adapted to open and close the load/unload opening executing a vacuum seal in the closed position. 13. The LP-CAR of claim 11 adapted for processing a single substrate per process cycle. 14. The LP-CAR of claim 11 comprising two or more charge tubes adapted to be connected to separate gas and vapor sources. 15. A vertically-stacked compact atomic layer deposition reactor (VESCAR) processing unit, comprising: a vacuum handling region having a valved load/unload opening adapted for transferring substrates to be processed into and out of the vacuum handling region; a plurality of low profile, compact atomic layer deposition reactors (LP-CARs), each interfaced into the vacuum handling region by a valved substrate port, the plurality of LP-CARS arranged in a vertical stack one-above-the-other outside the vacuum handling region, such that the valved substrate ports of the compact reactors present a substantially vertical column of ports within the vacuum handling region; and a z-axis robot in the vacuum handling region; wherein the z-axis robot is adapted to accept substrates transferred into the vacuum handling region by a transfer apparatus through the valved load/unload opening, to travel vertically to the level of each of the substrate ports, to extend to place substrates to and to receive substrates from each of the compact reactors through each of the valved substrate ports, and to place processed substrates on the transfer apparatus to be transferred through the load/unload port out of the vacuum handling region. 16. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 15 wherein the z-axis robot is programmable to follow pre-defined transfer sequences for substrates into the vacuum handling region, and into and out of individual ones of the compact reactors. 17. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 15 wherein individual ones of the compact reactors comprise two or more gas injectors and a gas exhaust arranged such that injected gases travel across a substrate placed in the individual compact reactor. 18. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 17 wherein an individual gas injector comprises a charge tube having a remotely-operable charge valve at one end and a remotely-operable injection valve at the other, the charge valve adapted to connect the charge tube to a pressure regulated gas supply, and the injection valve adapted to connect the charge tube into the individual compact reactor. 19. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 18 comprising two or more valved charge tubes adapted for injecting separate gases or vapors into the individual compact reactor. 20. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 19 wherein operation of the remotely-operable charge valves and injection valves is programmable to integrate injection of separate gases or vapors into individual compact reactors in concert with transfer of substrates into and out of compact reactors through the valved substrate ports. 21. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 15 combined with a cassette load/unload lock connected to the load/unload opening, the load/unload lock adapted with a vent and exhaust system and an outside door, such that a cassette of multiple unprocessed substrates may be placed into the load/unload lock, the load/unload lock may be evacuated, and individual substrates may then be transferred into and out of the individual compact reactors and back into the cassette in pre-programmed sequences. 22. The VESCAR processing unit of claim 15 combined with a cluster-tool handler connected by one transfer position to the load/unload opening, and a cassette load/unload lock connected to the cluster-tool handler, the load/unload lock adapted with a vent and exhaust system and an outside door, such that a cassette of multiple unprocessed substrates may be placed into the load/unload lock, the load/unload lock may be evacuated, and individual substrates may then be transferred through the cluster-tool handler and into and out of the individual compact reactors and back into the cassette in pre-programmed sequences. 23. The combination of claim 22 further comprising a second VESCAR processing unit connected to a second transfer position of the cluster-tool handler, such that substrates from the load/unload lock may be transferred into and out of compact reactor units in either of the VESACR processing units. 24. The VESCAR unit of claim 23 wherein the z-axis robot comprises a multiple end effector for handling multiple substrates. 25. The VESCAR unit of claim 15 wherein multiple substrates are processed in a horizontal array in each LP-CAR in each process cycle. 