A modular electronic assembly comprising a plurality of modules. Each modules power connection plates including a single dynamically defined root power connection plate and at least one dynamically defined branch power connection plate. Each module has a power distribution controller for dynamically defining the single root power connection plate and branch power connection plate(s) and distributing power between the modules only from branch power connection plates to root power connection plates of the modules connected by power connection plates. A constant current power supply is connected to at least one of the plurality of modules to provide a substantially constant current to all of the plurality of modules connected together by power connection plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular electronic assembly comprising a plurality of modules, each module having power connection plates, including a single dynamically defined root power connection plate, and at least one dynamically defined branch power connection plate, with each module having a power distribution controller for dynamically defining the single root power connection plate and branch power connection plates, and distributing power between the plurality of modules only from branch power connection plates to root power connection plates of those modules connected by power connection plates, and a constant current power supply connected to at least one of the plurality of modules to provide a substantially constant current to all of the plurality of modules connected together by power connection plates. 2. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the branch power connection plates are retractable to prevent branch to branch connection plate contact. 3. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the power connection plates are directably movable by the power distribution controller between a first position permitting electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules and a second position preventing electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules. 4. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the power connection plates are electrically switchable by the power distribution controller between a first switch position permitting electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules and a second switch position preventing electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules. 5. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules are adapted to be arranged in two-dimensional arrays. 6. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules are adapted to be arranged to form three-dimensional structures. 7. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules are configured as space filling polyhedra, allowing dense packing of structures. 8. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules are adapted to be arranged to define voids. 9. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of constant current power supplies, each constant current power supply connected to a respective one of the plurality of modules to provide a substantially constant current to a subset of the plurality of modules connected together by power connection plates. 10. The modular electronic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a signal modulator to superimpose data signals on electrical power transferred to the plurality of modules. 11. A modular robotic assembly comprising a plurality of movable robotic modules, each movable robotic module having actuators externally powered through power connection plates, with each movable robotic module including a single dynamically defined root power connection plate, and at least two dynamically defined branch power connection plates, with each module having a power distribution controller for dynamically defining the single root power connection plate and branch power connection plates, and distributing power between the plurality of modules only from branch power connection plates to root power connection plates of those modules connected by power connection plates, and a constant current power supply connected to at least one of the plurality of movable robotic modules to provide a substantially constant current to all of the plurality of movable robotic modules connected together by power connection plates. 12. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the power connection plates each respectively comprise a positive connection and a negative connection. 13. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the power connection plates are directably movable by the power distribution controller between a first position permitting electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules and a second position preventing electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules. 14. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the power connection plates are electrically switchable by the power distribution controller between a first switch position permitting electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules and a second switch position preventing electrical contact with power connection plates of adjacent modules. 15. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of modules are adapted to be arranged in two dimensional arrays. 16. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of modules are adapted to be stacked to form three-dimensional structures. 17. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of modules are configured as space filling polyhedra, allowing dense packing of structures. 18. The modular robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein the plurality of modules are adapted to be arranged to define voids. 19. The modular electronic assembly of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of constant current power supplies, each constant current power supply connected to a respective one of the plurality of modules to provide a substantially constant current to a subset of the plurality of modules connected together by power connection plates. 