A method of forming at least one electronic device on a substrate comprising creating a depository and an attached capillary; providing a liquid containing particles in the range 1 nanometer to 1 millimeter for deposit into the depository; the liquid flowing into the at least one capillary by capillary action; evaporating the liquid such that the particles form an agglomerate beginning at the end of the at least one capillary with a substantially uniform distribution of the particles within the agglomerate; whereby the agglomerate is used to form a part of the at least one electronic device. An microelectronic integrated circuit device comprising a substrate; a depository coupled to said substrate formed by at least one wall, a capillary channel coupled to said depository adapted to be filled with liquid comprising nanoparticles by capillary action, whereby as the liquid evaporates, an agglomerate forms in the capillary channel having a substantially uniform distribution of the particles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming at least one electronic device on a substrate comprising: creating a depository and at least one attached capillary on a substrate; the depository being less than one millimeter in diameter; providing a liquid containing particles in the range 1 nanometer to 1 millimeter; depositing into the depository the liquid containing particles; the liquid flowing into the at least one capillary by capillary action; evaporating the liquid such that the particles form an agglomerate beginning at the end of the at least one capillary with a substantially uniform distribution of the particles within the agglomerate; whereby the agglomerate is used to form at least a portion of the at least one electronic device. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises silicon and the at least one electronic device is micron-sized, and the step of creating a depository and at least one attached capillary comprises forming walls using titanium as an adhesion layer and creating walls by thin film deposition on top of the silicon substrate. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising depositing a second liquid containing second particles into the depository, the second liquid flowing into the capillary to form an adjacent agglomerate of particles, the adjacent agglomerate of particles being formed over the initial agglomerate, whereby an electronic device having first and second layers may be formed thereby. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are nanoparticles and the width of the capillary is the same or smaller than the diameter of the meniscus of the liquid; wherein the capillary action has a pumping effect which drives the particles to the end of the capillary and the solidification occurs first at the end of the capillary and proceeds progressively towards the beginning of the capillary; whereby the pumping effect of the capillary action produces a uniform distribution of particles at the end of the capillary, and, as the liquid evaporates and the formation of the agglomerate progresses, produces a substantially uniform distribution of particles throughout the agglomerate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the capillary is formed by at least two capillary walls which form a spiral and which do not form part of the structure of the electronic device and wherein the walls are removed after formation of the agglomerate. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of providing a liquid containing particles comprises providing a liquid with particle concentration that is selected to control the speed of the formation of the agglomerate in order to create a substantially uniform distribution of particles and to allow appropriate curing. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises temperature sensitive devices formed thereon and wherein the at least one electronic device comprises a plurality of micron sized electronic devices where at least one of the plurality of micron sized electronic devices requires a particle composition which varies from particle composition required for another micron sized electronic device and wherein the temperature does not exceed an upper temperature limit of 400.degree. C. during the formation of the at least one electronic device and the method is a mask-less process. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein a plurality of capillaries form parts of a plurality of microelectronic devices, each of which is formed integrally with the substrate through mask-less fabrication using a variety of different material compositions; the plurality of microelectronic devices comprises at least one of a high frequency filter capacitor, a resistor, a diode, a high current power inductor, a high frequency RF inductor, and a power transformer with high permeability magnetic core, formed of multiple materials on the substrate; whereby the plurality of microelectronic devices formed integrally with the substrate though mask-less fabrication are formed of a variety of materials by mixing different nano-particles to achieve the differing characteristics. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles are nano-particles and said liquid comprises a suspension the nano-particles, and wherein said nano-particles are mixed with polymers and other nano-particles varying in chemical composition. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles comprise high-k dielectric nano-particles which form a high-k dielectric agglomerate. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the particles comprise magnetic nano-particles which form a magnetic agglomerate. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the magnetic nanoparticles are ferromagnetic and liquid flows into the capillary in the presence of a magnetic field which causes the ferromagnetic particles to align such that the easy axis of the agglomerate ferromagnetic material is oriented in a preferred direction for the optimal creation flux lines to increase the effectiveness of the least one electronic device. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the particles are dielectric and the method comprises placing the capillary in the presence of an electric field which aligns the dielectric particles. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one electronic device comprises at least one of a high frequency filter capacitor, a resistor, a diode, a high current power inductor, a high frequency RF inductor, and a power transformer with high permeability magnetic core, formed of multiple materials on a single substrate; whereby the method enables multiple electronic devices to be integrated onto a substrate though mask-less fabrication such that the electronic devices may be tailored by using different materials or by mixing different nano-particles to achieve the desired characteristics. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one electronic device is formed entirely using the agglomerate formed integrally on the substrate though mask-less fabrication. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the electronic device is formed of a variety of materials by mixing different nano-particles to achieve the differing characteristics. 