A method and apparatus that accurately marks a wafer at selected locations to form a wafer coordinate system. The apparatus contains a wafer platen for retaining a wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation, a wafer orientation detector assembly and a marking assembly mounted above the wafer platen. In operation, the apparatus orients the wafer by identifying an orientation attribute of the wafer, then applies fiducial marks to the wafer. The wafer marking apparatus forms a portion of an integrated analytical tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for marking a wafer comprising: a wafer platen for retaining a wafer; a wafer marking assembly, positioned above the wafer platen, for selectively marking said wafer with a fiducial mark, where the fiducial mark defines a wafer coordinate system; a wafer orientation detector, positioned proximate said wafer platen, to determine the orientation of the wafer; and a platen drive assembly, coupled to said wafer platen and said wafer marking assembly, for positioning the wafer platen beneath the wafer marking assembly in response to a signal from said wafer orientation detector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a controller, coupled to said drive assembly and said wafer marking assembly, for controlling the position of said platen relative to the wafer marking assembly and for selectively positioning the wafer marking assembly to mark the wafer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said wafer marking assembly further comprises at least one laser marking device. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said at least one wafer marking device comprises: a laser source for producing a high intensity laser beam; beam shaping optics; and a fiber optic cable, coupled between said laser source and said beam shaping optics, for propagating said laser beam from said laser source to said beam shaping optics. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said wafer orientation detector identifies a notch or flat of a wafer. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said wafer orientation detector comprises: a light emitting diode; and a photodetector, where said light emitting diode and said photodetector are spaced apart on either side of a wafer when said wafer is retained by said wafer platen, said photodetector produces a signal indicating that said notch or flat is aligned with said light emitting diode. 7. A method of marking a wafer comprising the steps of: orienting a wafer to identify a marking location on the surface of the wafer; and marking the wafer with a fiducial mark that defines a wafer coordinate system. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said orienting step further comprises: rotating and translating the wafer; identifying an orientation identifying attribute of the wafer; and stopping rotating and translating the wafer upon identifying the orientation identifying attribute. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said orientation identifying attribute of the wafer is either a flat or a notch. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the marking step further comprises: energizing a laser source; coupling a laser beam from the laser source to beam shaping optics; and focusing said laser beam upon said wafer to form said fiducial mark. 