An apparatus detects an opening in a fluid flow passageway such as occurs when a resistance welding cap which is cooled by the fluid flow becomes accidently detached from a welding machine. Upon detection of an opening, an air-actuated pinch lever is activated to quickly pinch shut flexible fluid inlet and outlet hoses and thereby shut off the fluid flow. Inlet and outlet flow rate sensors provide periodic outputs to a digital computer which determines directions of inlet and outlet flow acceleration. If either the inlet or outlet acceleration changes direction, a baseline inlet or outlet flow rate is set equal to the corresponding current flow rate value to prevent erroneous opening detection due to normal flow fluctuations. If the inlet and outlet accelerations are in the same direction, the baseline values are similarly updated. If the inlet acceleration is positive and the outlet acceleration is negative, it indicates a probable opening. Another test is made to preclude an erroneous detection by determining if the inlet and outlet flow rates are different from the baseline values by more than a predetermined percentage. If so, a valid opening is indicated and the fluid flow is shut off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting an opening in a fluid flow passageway having an inlet and an outlet, comprising the steps of: (a) sensing for a first condition in which an inlet flow acceleration and an outlet flow acceleration are in different directions; (b) sensing for a second condition in which an inlet flow rate is different from an inlet baseline value by more than a first predetermined value, and an outlet flow rate is different from an outlet baseline value by more than a second predetermined value; and (c) generating an opening detection indication in response to presence of both the first and second conditions. 2. A method as in claim 1, in which step (a) is performed before step (b). 3. A method as in claim 1, in which step (b) is performed before step (a). 4. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; (e) setting the inlet baseline value equal to the inlet flow rate in response to presence of the third condition; (f) sensing for a fourth condition in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and (g) setting the outlet baseline value equal to the outlet flow rate in response to presence of the fourth condition. 5. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; (e) performing step (a) in response to absence of the third condition; (f) sensing for a fourth condition in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and (g) performing step (a) in response to absence of the fourth condition. 6. A method as in claim 5, in which steps (d) and (f) are performed before step (a). 7. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; (e) performing step (b) in response to absence of the third condition; (f) sensing for a fourth condition in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and (g) performing step (b) in response to absence of the fourth condition. 8. A method as in claim 7, in which steps (d) and (f) are performed before step (b). 9. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; (e) setting the inlet baseline value equal to the inlet flow rate in response to absence of both the first and third conditions; (f) sensing for a fourth condition in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; (g) setting the outlet baseline value equal to the outlet flow rate in response to absence of both the first and fourth conditions. 10. A method as in claim 9, in which steps (d) and (f) are performed before step (b). 11. A method as in claim 1, in which: the fluid flow passageway comprises a detachable member; and the opening is constituted by detachment of the detachable member. 12. A method as in claim 11, in which the detachable member comprises a welding cap. 13. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of: (d) stopping fluid flow through the inlet and the outlet in response to the opening detection indication. 14. A method as in claim 13, in which: the fluid flow passageway comprises a flexible inlet section which communicates with the inlet and a flexible outlet section which communicates with the outlet; and step (d) comprises pinching shut the inlet section and the outlet section. 15. A method as in claim 1, in which the first and second predetermined values are equal. 16. A method as in claim 1, in which the first and second predetermined values are within a range of approximately 5% to 25%. 17. A method as in claim 1, in which the first and second predetermined values are approximately 12.5%. 18. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which an inlet flow rate is below a predetermined trip point value; and (e) generating a low flow indication in response to presence of the third condition. 19. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the step of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which an outlet flow rate is below a predetermined trip point value; and (e) generating a low flow indication in response to presence of the third condition. 20. A method as in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (d) sensing for a third condition in which a flow rate is below a predetermined trip point value; (e) generating a low flow indication in response to presence of the third condition; (f) terminating performing steps (a), (b) and (c); (g) sensing for a fourth condition in which the flow rate has increased above the trip point value; and (h) performing steps (a), (b) and (c) in response to presence of the fourth condition. 21. A method as in claim 1, in which step (a) is limited to sensing the first condition such that the inlet acceleration is positive and the outlet acceleration is negative. 