A wafer processing system including a processing chamber, a low pressure pump coupled to the processing chamber for pumping noble and non-noble gases, a valve mechanism coupling a source of noble gas to the processing chamber, an in situ getter pump disposed within the processing chamber which pumps certain non-noble gases during the flow of the noble gas into the chamber, and a processing mechanism for processing a wafer disposed within the processing chamber. Preferably, the in situ getter pump can be operated at a number of different temperatures to preferentially pump different species of gas at those temperatures. A gas analyzer is used to automatically control the temperature of the getter pump to control the species of gasses that are pumped from the chamber. A method for processing a wafer of the present invention includes the steps of placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing the chamber, flowing a noble gas into the chamber while simultaneously pumping the chamber with an external low pressure pump and with an in situ getter pump disposed within the chamber which pumps non-noble gases, and processing the wafer within the chamber while the noble gas continues to flow. The method also preferably includes the steps of monitoring the composition of the gas within the chamber and controlling the temperature of the getter material based upon the analysis of the composition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing a wafer comprising: placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing said chamber; flowing a noble gas into said chamber while simultaneously pumping said chamber with an external pump coupled to said processing chamber with a throttle plate and selected from the group comprising molecular pumps, ion pumps, cryopumps, and turbo pumps which pumps noble gasses from said chamber and with an in situ pump disposed within said chamber which pumps non-noble gasses from said chamber, said in situ pump having a plurality of separated active elements which have a combined pumping speed with respect to the chamber of at least 75% of their theoretical maximum pumping speed; and processing said wafer within said chamber while said noble gas continues to flow. 2. A method for processing wafers as recited in claim 1 further comprising, before flowing a noble gas; simultaneously pumping said chamber with said external pump and with said in situ pump to achieve a base pressure. 3. A method for processing wafers as recited in claim 2 further comprising, before simultaneously pumping said chamber to achieve a base pressure: pumping said chamber with a mechanical pump. 4. A method for processing wafers as recited in claim 1 wherein said active elements include getter material, and further comprising: controlling the temperature of said getter material to preferentially pump a selected gas. 5. A method for processing wafers as recited in claim 4 further comprising: monitoring the composition of a gas within said chamber; and controlling the temperature of said getter material based upon an analysis of said composition. 6. A method for processing a wafer, comprising: placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing said chamber; flowing a noble gas into said chamber while simultaneously pumping said chamber with an external pump selected from the group comprising molecular pumps, ion pumps, cryopumps, and turbo pumps which pumps noble gasses from said chamber and with an in situ pump disposed within said chamber which pumps non-noble gasses from said chamber, said in situ pump having a plurality of separated active elements which have a combined pumping speed with respect to the chamber of at least 75% of their theoretical maximum pumping speed, wherein a heater is located in non-contact proximity to each of said active elements; and processing said wafer within said chamber while said noble gas continues to flow. 7. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 6, further comprising, simultaneous with flowing said noble gas into said chamber and pumping said chamber: controlling the temperatures of each of said active elements by using said heater located in non-contact proximity to each of said active elements according to pre-programmed instructions. 8. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 6, wherein each said active element is a porous sintered disk of getter material. 9. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 8, wherein said getter material comprises a Zr--Al alloy. 10. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 8, wherein said getter material comprises a Zr--V--Fe alloy. 11. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 6, wherein said heater located in non-contact proximity to each of said active elements is a radiant lamp. 12. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 6, further comprising, before flowing said noble gas: simultaneously pumping said chamber with said external pump and with said in situ pump to achieve a base pressure. 13. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 6, further comprising, before simultaneously pumping said chamber to achieve said base pressure: pumping said chamber with a mechanical pump. 14. A method for processing a wafer, comprising: placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing said chamber; flowing a noble gas into said chamber while simultaneously pumping said chamber with an external pump selected from the group comprising molecular pumps, ion pumps, cryopumps, and turbo pumps which pumps noble gasses from said chamber and with an in situ pump disposed within said chamber which pumps non-noble gasses from said chamber, said in situ pump having a movable shield, a heater, and a plurality of separated active elements which have a combined pumping speed with respect to the chamber of at least 75% of their theoretical maximum pumping speed; and processing said wafer within said chamber while said noble gas continues to flow. 15. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 14, wherein said movable shield is located proximate to said active elements to thermally isolate said active elements. 16. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 15, wherein said active elements are a porous sintered disk of getter material. 17. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 16, wherein said getter material comprises a Zr--Al alloy. 18. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 16, wherein said getter material comprises a Zr--V--Fe alloy. 19. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 14, further comprising, before flowing said noble gas: simultaneously pumping said chamber with said external pump and with said in situ pump to achieve a base pressure. 20. A method for processing a wafer as recited in claim 19, further comprising, before simultaneously pumping said chamber to achieve said base pressure: pumping said chamber with a mechanical pump. 