Apparatus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention includes a data storage cartridge and/or a receiver configured to receive the cartridge in facilitation of data transfer to and/or from the cartridge. The cartridge and the receiver each include respective connector portions configured to connect when the cartridge is inserted into the receiver. The cartridge and/or the receiver also include guide features configured to facilitate alignment of the connector portions for connection as the cartridge is inserted into the receiver.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage system, comprising: a cartridge defining a cartridge guide region, wherein the cartridge guide region comprises a front cartridge guide feature, a rear cartridge guide feature, and a cartridge connector portion; a receiver configured to receive the cartridge, wherein the receiver comprises a receiver connector portion configured to matingly connect with the cartridge connector portion, and a guide member that defines a front receiver guide feature configured to substantially continuously engage the rear cartridge guide feature, and wherein the receiver further comprises a rear receiver guide feature configured to substantially momentarily engage the front cartridge guide feature; a cartridge support configured to support the cartridge in a storage mode; and, a picking device configured to selectively move the cartridge from the cartridge support to the receiver, wherein the receiver connector portion is matingly connected with the cartridge connector portion. 2. The system of claim 1, and further comprising a plurality of cartridges. 3. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein the cartridge guide region is substantially a female guide region defined by the cartridge. 4. The data storage system of claim 1, and wherein the cartridge guide region is substantially an open slot defined in by the cartridge. 5. The data storage system of claim 4, and wherein the open slot is defined by a substantially flat bottom and a pair of substantially parallel, spaced-apart, juxtaposed walls extending substantially perpendicularly from the bottom. 6. The data storage system of claim 1, and wherein: the cartridge further comprises a cartridge reference guide feature; and the receiver further includes a receiver reference guide feature that is configured to matingly engage the cartridge reference feature before the engagement of the cartridge connector portion and the receiver connector portion. 7. The data storage system of claim 6, the cartridge further comprising a door supported by the cartridge and configured to: protectively cover the cartridge connector portion when the cartridge is not received into the receiver; and uncover the cartridge connector portion in response to engagement of the receiver reference guide feature with the cartridge reference guide feature. 8. The data storage system of claim 1, and wherein: the guide member is substantially a male guide member; the rear receiver guide feature is substantially a bulge region defined on the guide member; and the front receiver guide feature is substantially a tip region defined on the guide member. 9. The data storage system of claim 8, and wherein: the tip region is substantially elongated and has a substantially constant width; and the bulge region is wider than the tip region. 10. The data storage system of claim 9, and wherein: the front cartridge guide feature is substantially a front bottleneck region; the rear cartridge guide feature is substantially a rear bottleneck region; the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature with a substantially continuous snug fit; and the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature with a substantially momentary snug fit. 11. A data storage system, comprising: a cartridge defining a cartridge guide region, wherein the cartridge guide region comprises a front cartridge guide feature, a rear cartridge guide feature, and a cartridge connector portion; a memory device operatively supported within the cartridge; a receiver configured to receive the cartridge, wherein the receiver comprises a receiver connector portion configured to matingly connect with the cartridge connector portion, and a guide member that defines a front receiver guide feature configured to substantially continuously engage the rear cartridge guide feature, and wherein the receiver further comprises a rear receiver guide feature configured to substantially momentarily engage the front cartridge guide feature; a host device communicatively linked with the receiver, wherein receipt of the cartridge into the receiver results in communicative linkage of the memory device with the host device. 12. The data storage system of claim 11, wherein the cartridge guide region is substantially a female guide region defined by the cartridge. 13. The data storage system of claim 11, and wherein the cartridge guide region is substantially an open slot defined in by the cartridge. 14. The data storage system of claim 13, wherein the open slot is defined by a substantially flat bottom and a pair of substantially parallel, spaced-apart, juxtaposed walls extending substantially perpendicularly from the bottom. 15. The data storage system of claim 11, and wherein: the cartridge further comprises a cartridge reference guide feature; and the receiver further includes a receiver reference guide feature that is configured to matingly engage the cartridge reference guide feature before the engagement of the cartridge connector portion and the receiver connector portion. 16. The data storage system of claim 15, the cartridge further comprising a door supported by the cartridge and configured to: protectively cover the cartridge connector portion when the cartridge is not received into the receiver; and uncover the cartridge connector portion in response to engagement of the receiver reference guide feature with the cartridge reference guide feature. 17. The data storage system of claim 15, and wherein: the receiver reference guide feature is substantially a reference pin extending from the chassis; and the cartridge reference guide feature is substantially a reference hole. 18. The data storage system of claim 11, and wherein: the guide member is substantially a male guide member; the rear receiver guide feature is substantially a bulge region defined on the guide member; and the front receiver guide feature is substantially a tip region defined on the guide member. 19. The data storage system of claim 18, and wherein: the tip region is substantially elongated and has a substantially constant width; and the bulge region is wider than the tip region. 20. The data storage system of claim 19, and wherein: the front cartridge guide feature is substantially a front bottleneck region; the rear cartridge guide feature is substantially a rear bottleneck region; the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature with a substantially continuous snug fit; and the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature with a substantially momentary snug fit. 