The present invention provides a method for calibration of pose of a tool center point (TCP) of a robot controlled tool with respect to a tool sensor means in which the robot controlled tool is attached at an end-point of the robot. The method provides a reference fixture with at least four topographically defined features, the reference fixture having a preselected first pose with respect to a robot frame of reference. A TCP sensor is located in a preselected second pose with respect to the reference fixture for sensing position of the tool center point. The method includes positioning the tool sensor so that the reference fixture is in a field of view of the tool sensor and calculating a pose of the robot end point with respect to the robot frame of reference, calculating a pose of the reference fixture with respect to the tool sensor means from a sensed position of the four topographically defined features of the reference fixture, and calculating a position of the tool center point with respect to the reference fixture from a sensed position of the tool center point with respect to the TCP sensor means. The position of the tool center point is calculated with respect to the tool sensor means and the robot end-point.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for calibration of pose of a tool center point (TCP) of a robot controlled tool with respect to a tool sensor means, the robot controlled tool being attached at an end-point of said robot, and the tool sensor means being affixed to the end-point of the robot and spaced from the robot controlled tool, comprising: a) providing a reference fixture with at least four topographically defined features, said reference fixture having a preselected first pose with respect to a robot frame of reference, providing a TCP sensor means in a preselected second pose with respect to said reference fixture for sensing position of said tool center point; b(i) positioning said tool sensor means so that said reference fixture is in a field of view of said tool sensor means, b(ii) calculating a pose of said robot end point with respect to said robot frame of reference, b(iii) calculating a pose of said reference fixture with respect to said tool sensor means from a sensed position of said four topographically defined features of said reference fixture, b(iv) calculating a position of said tool center point with respect to said reference fixture from a sensed position of said tool center point with respect to said TCP sensor means; and c) calculating a position of said tool center point with respect to said tool sensor means and said robot end-point from said first and second poses and said poses calculated in steps b(ii) and b(iii) and the calculated tool center point position in step b(iv). 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said four spaced topographically defined features of the reference fixture are four edges defined by intersecting surfaces of said reference fixture spatially distinguishable by said tool sensor means, and wherein at least three of said four edges being nonparallel to each other. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein said four edges are linear edges. 4. The method according to claim 2 wherein said first sensor means is a structured light sensor. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein said four spaced topographically defined features of the reference fixture are three edges defined by intersecting surfaces of said reference fixture spatially distinguishable by said tool sensor means, including the step of computer generating a virtual edge from an intersection of different planes defining said reference fixture, and wherein at least three of said four edges are nonparallel to each other. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein said step of generating a virtual edge includes extrapolating said virtual edge from said intersecting planes. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein said four edges are linear edges. 8. The method according to claim 6 wherein said first sensor means is a structured light sensor. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein said tool is a welding laser and said second sensor means is a light detection means, and wherein step b(iv) includes determining a focal point of said welding laser by analysing an image of the laser focused on a projection screen. 10. A method for calibration of position of a tool center point of a robot controlled tool with respect to a tool sensor means, the robot controlled tool being attached at an end-point of said robot, and the tool sensor means being affixed to the end-point of the robot and spaced from the robot controlled tool, comprising: a) providing at least one reference fixture comprising at least four topographically defined features, providing a second sensor means in a preselected pose with respect to said reference fixture for sensing position of said tool center point; b) positioning said tool sensor means in at least three viewing positions with respect to said at least one reference fixture and in each viewing position calculating a pose of said reference fixture with respect to said tool sensor means from sensed positions of said four topographically defined features of said reference fixture; c) calculating a position of said tool center point with respect to said reference fixture from a sensed position of said tool center point with respect to said second sensor means; and d) calculating a pose of said tool sensor means with respect to said robot end-point by solving two matrix equations given by where X is the pose of said tool sensor means with respect to said robot end-point frame of reference, A is a transformation relating any two viewing positions, and B is a corresponding transformation relating the pose of said reference fixture with respect to said tool sensor means in said any two viewing positions. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein said at least one reference fixture is three reference fixtures fixed on a support each having a preselected pose with respect to each other, said preselected pose excluding said three reference fixtures being aligned along parallel axes, and wherein each of said three viewing positions is associated with a corresponding reference fixture. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein said four spaced topographically defined features of the reference fixture are four edges defined by intersecting surfaces of said reference fixture spatially distinguishable by said tool sensor means, and wherein at least three of said four edges being nonparallel to each other. 13. The method according to claim 12 wherein said four spaced topographically defined features of the reference fixture are three edges defined by intersecting surfaces of said reference fixture spatially distinguishable by said tool sensor means, including the step of computer generating a virtual edge from an intersection of different planes defining said reference fixture, and wherein at least three of said four edges non nonparallel to each other. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step of generating a virtual edge includes extrapolating said virtual edge from said intersecting planes. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein said four edges are linear edges. 16. A system for calibration of position of a tool center point of a robotically controlled tool attached at an end-point of a robot, comprising: a) first sensor means comprising means for projecting a beam of electromagnetic radiation and means for detecting a reflected image of said beam, positioning means for moving said first sensor means, the first sensor means being affixed to the end-point of the robot and spaced from the robot controlled tool; b) a reference fixture attached to a support member and comprising at least four topographically defined features spatially distinguishable by said first sensor means within a field of view thereof; c) second sensor means attached to said support member in a preselected pose with respect to said reference fixture for sensing the position of the tool center; and d) processing means connected to said robot and said first and second sensor means for calculating from said reflected image a pose of said reference fixture with respect to said first sensor means and for calculating a position of said tool center point with respect to said first sensor means and said robot end-point. 17. The system according to claim 16 wherein said four topographically defined features of the reference fixture are four edges defined by intersecting surfaces of said reference fixture spatially distinguishable by said tool sensor means, and wherein at least three of said four edges being nonparallel to each other. 18. The system according to claim 17 wherein said four edges are linear edges. 19. The system according to claim 18 wherein said first sensor means is a structured light sensor. 20. The system according to claim 17 wherein said four topographically defined features of the reference fixture are three edges defined by intersecting surfaces of said reference fixture spatially distinguishable by said tool sensor means, wherein said processing means includes means for generating a virtual edge from an intersection of different planes defining said reference fixture, and wherein at least three of said four edges non nonparallel to each other. 21. The system according to claim 20 wherein said step of generating a virtual edge includes extrapolating said virtual edge from said intersecting planes. 22. The system according to claim 21 wherein said four edges are linear edges. 23. The system according to claim 20 wherein said first sensor means is a structured light sensor. 