A method for making a robot pivot arm assembly includes forming from a rigid, machinable material a circular disk, and forming a circular aperture through the center of the disk. An outer bearing track is formed integrally in the inside surface which defines the aperture, and the apertured disk is positioned in a machining device with a fixturing portion that engages the outer bearing track. An integral outer race, an arm and a gear segment with teeth are then machined into the disk to form the outer portion of the pivot arm assembly. An inner race with an inner bearing track is positioned inside the integral outer race, and rolling bearing elements are inserted into the first and second bearing tracks.
Claims The invention claimed is as follows: 1. A method for making a pivot arm assembly for semiconductor wafer handling robots and the like, comprising: forming from a rigid, machinable material a circular disk having a predetermined center; forming a circular aperture through the center of the disk to define an outer integral race portion of the pivot arm assembly having a cylindrically-shaped inside surface; forming a radially inwardly opening groove in the inside surface of the outer integral race portion to define a first bearing track; providing a machining apparatus having a fixturing portion which precisely retains a workpiece relative to a machining portion of the machining apparatus; positioning the apertured disk in the machining apparatus with the fixturing portion thereof engaging the first bearing track to removably, yet precisely, retain the apertured disk at a predetermined position and orientation relative to the machining portion of the machining apparatus; activating the machining portion of the machining apparatus to form in the apertured disk an annularly-shaped ring portion with a cylindrically-shaped outside surface disposed generally concentric with the inside surface of the outer integral race portion, an arm portion extending radially outwardly from the ring portion and adapted for connection with a robot articulation member, a gear segment portion extending radially outwardly from the ring portion in a circumferentially spaced apart relationship with the arm portion, and gear teeth along an outer end portion of the gear segment portion oriented precisely in a predetermined relationship with the first bearing track and adapted for meshing with an associated robot drive mechanism; forming an inner race portion of the pivot arm assembly defined by an inside surface configured to receive and retain a mounting member therein, and a cylindrically-shaped outside surface; forming a radially outwardly opening groove in the outside surface of the inner race portion to define a second bearing track which is shaped substantially similar to the first bearing track in the outer integral race portion; positioning the inner race portion inside the inside surface of the outer integral race portion such that the first and second bearing tracks are radially aligned, and the inner race portion is in an eccentric relationship with the outer integral race portion to form between the inside surface of the outer integral race portion and the outside surface of the inner race portion an eccentric gap having a wider portion and a narrower portion; sequentially inserting a plurality of rolling bearing elements through the gap at the wider portion thereof and into the first and second bearing tracks; positioning the bearing elements in a regularly spaced apart relationship around the first and second bearing tracks and contemporaneously shifting the inner race portion and the outer integral race portion into a concentric relationship; and retaining the bearing elements in the regularly spaced apart relationship in the first and second bearing tracks. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein: said aperture forming step includes: providing a second machining apparatus having a fixturing portion which precisely retains a workpiece relative to a machining portion of the second machining apparatus; and positioning the disk in the second machining apparatus with the fixturing portion thereof engaging the outer circumferential edge of the disk to removably, yet precisely, retain the disk at a predetermined position and orientation relative to the machining portion of the second machining apparatus. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2, wherein: said disk forming step includes cutting the disk from an elongate, solid rod of steel. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3, wherein: said aperture forming step further includes drilling the aperture through the center of the disk while the disk is retained in the fixturing portion of the second machining apparatus. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein: said aperture forming step further includes grinding the inside surface of the outer integral race portion while the apertured disk is retained in the fixturing portion of the second machining apparatus. 6. The method as set forth in claim 5, wherein: said first bearing track forming step comprises grinding the radially inwardly opening groove in the inside surface of the outer integral race portion while the apertured disk is retained in the fixturing portion of the second machining apparatus. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6, wherein: said first bearing track forming step comprises grinding the first bearing track into a configuration which forms a radial contact bearing with the bearing elements. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7, wherein: said sleeve forming step comprises forming the sleeve from steel; and said sleeve groove forming step comprises grinding the outside surface of the sleeve to form the second bearing track into a configuration which forms a radial contact bearing with the bearing elements. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein: said first and second track forming steps comprise grinding the first and second bearing tracks for four point contact with the bearing elements. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9, wherein: said bearing element retaining step comprises attaching a separator to the bearing elements after said bearing element positioning step. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10, wherein: said bearing element inserting step includes selecting ceramic balls for the bearing elements. 12. The method as set forth in claim 11, wherein: said first named machining apparatus providing step comprises selecting a wire EDM machine. 13. The method as set forth in claim 12, wherein: said disk forming step further includes selecting an elongate, solid rod of stainless steel. 14. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein: said disk forming step includes cutting the disk from an elongate, solid rod of steel; and said aperture forming step further includes drilling the aperture through the center of the disk. 15. In a method for making a pivot arm assembly for semiconductor wafer handling robots and the like, the improvement comprising: forming from a rigid, machinable material a circular disk having a predetermined center; forming a circular aperture through the center of the disk to define an outer integral race portion of the pivot arm assembly having a cylindrically-shaped inside surface; forming a radially inwardly opening groove in the inside surface of the outer integral race portion to define a first bearing track; providing a machining apparatus having a fixturing portion which precisely retains a workpiece relative to a machining portion of the machining apparatus; positioning the apertured disk in the machining apparatus with the fixturing portion thereof engaging the first bearing track to removably, yet precisely, retain the apertured disk at a predetermined position and orientation relative to the machining portion of the machining apparatus; activating the machining portion of the machining apparatus to form in the apertured disk a ring portion disposed generally concentric with the outer integral race portion, a gear segment portion extending radially outwardly from the ring portion, and gear teeth along an outer end portion of the gear segment portion oriented precisely in a predetermined relationship with the first bearing track and adapted for meshing with an associated robot drive mechanism; forming an inner race portion of the pivot arm assembly defined by an inside surface configured to receive and retain a mounting member therein, and a cylindrically-shaped outside surface; forming a radially outwardly opening groove in the outside surface of the inner race portion to define a second bearing track which is shaped substantially similar to the first bearing track in the outer integral race portion; positioning the inner race portion inside the inside surface of the outer integral race portion such that the first and second bearing tracks are radially aligned; and inserting a plurality of rolling bearing elements into the first and second bearing tracks. 16. The method as set forth in claim 15, wherein: said aperture forming step includes: providing a second machining apparatus having a fixturing portion which precisely retains a workpiece relative to a machining portion of the second machining apparatus; and positioning the disk in the second machining apparatus with the fixturing portion thereof engaging the outer circumferential edge of the disk to removably, yet precisely, retain the disk at a predetermined position and orientation relative to the machining portion of the second machining apparatus. 17. The method as set forth in claim 16, wherein: said disk forming step includes cutting the disk from an elongate, solid rod of steel. 18. The method as set forth in claim 17, wherein: said aperture forming step further includes drilling the aperture through the center of the disk while the disk is retained in the fixturing portion of the second machining apparatus. 19. The method as set forth in claim 18, wherein: said aperture forming step further includes grinding the inside surface of the outer integral race portion while the apertured disk is retained in the fixturing portion of the second machining apparatus. 20. The method as set forth in claim 19, wherein: said first bearing track forming step comprises grinding the radially inwardly opening groove in the inside surface of the outer integral race portion while the apertured disk is retained in the fixturing portion of the second machining apparatus. 21. The method as set forth in claim 20, wherein: said first and second track forming steps comprise grinding the first and second bearing tracks for four point contact with the bearing elements to define a radial contact bearing. 