The present invention provides a hyperspectral imaging apparatus and methods for employing such an apparatus for multi-dye/base detection of a nucleic acid molecule coupled to a solid surface.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for hyperspectral imaging a fluorescently labeled nucleotide analog wherein said method comprises the steps: (a) emitting a transmission beam from a light source for hyperspectral imaging; (b) expanding said transmission beam by passing said transmission beam through an expansion lens that expands said transmission beam for microarray detection; (c) focusing said expanded transmission beam into a focus line for microarray detection by passing said expanded transmission beam through a focusing lens; (d) contacting said fluorescently labeled nucleotide analog with said focused transmission beam, wherein said contact between said focused transmission line and said fluorescently labeled nucleotide analog excites said fluorescently labeled nucleotide analog to emit a fluorescent emission; (e) collecting said fluorescent emission with a collection lens; (f) projecting said collected fluorescent emission into an imaging spectrometer for hyperspectral imaging; and (g) detecting said projected fluorescent emission using a detector. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said fluorescently labeled nucleotide analog is incorporated into a sequencing reagent in a polymerase-meditated, template-dependent reaction. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said sequencing reagent is immobilized to a solid surface. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said immobilized sequencing reagent is immobilized as a microarray. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said immobilized sequencing reagent comprise a plurality of distinct sequencing reagents. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein said microarray is a nested microarray. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein said sequencing reagent is selected from the group consisting of a DNA molecule, a RNA molecule, and a PNA molecule. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said DNA molecule is a cDNA molecule or fragment thereof. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said cDNA molecule is an EST molecule. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein said polymerase-mediated, template-dependent reaction is Genetic Bit Analysis. 11. The method of claim 3, wherein said solid surface is a glass surface. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said light source is a laser. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said laser is a CW Ar laser. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said detector is a charged coupled device. 