An apparatus having a processing chamber for processing a semiconductor wafer under evacuated conditions that is capable of transfer of the wafer from the processing chamber under conditions that are substantially equal to the pressure of an adjacent environment. In a preferred embodiment, the processing chamber is pressurized and vented with a source of high purity dry gas that is diffused into the chamber through a diffuser to pressurize the processing chamber after processing of the wafer is completed. A chamber equalization port between the processing chamber and the adjacent environment is opened to maintain the pressure within the chamber at or slightly above the pressure of the adjacent environment, and the chamber valve is then opened. The wafer can then be removed from the processing chamber, and a new wafer can be inserted. The chamber is then sealed by closing the chamber valve and the equalization port, and the atmosphere within the processing chamber is evacuated to a desired level. The new wafer is then processed, and the above steps are repeated to remove the wafer once processing has finished.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a first microelectronic device between a first processing chamber and a second chamber, comprising the steps of: providing a first microelectronic device; providing a first processing chamber at a first pressure; providing a second chamber adjacent to said first processing chamber at a second pressure that is greater then the first pressure; positioning said microelectronic device in one of said first processing chamber and said second chamber; raising the pressure in the first processing chamber from the first pressure to a level that is at least equal to the second pressure of the second chamber by providing a flow of gas to said first processing chamber; opening a chamber equalization port operatively interconnected between the first processing chamber and the second chamber to permit gas flow between the first processing chamber and the second chamber; opening a chamber valve interconnected between the first processing chamber and the second chamber for providing access to an interior of the first processing chamber from the second chamber and also permitting gas flow between the first processing chamber and the second chamber; and transferring the first microelectronic device from its position within one of the first processing chamber and the second chamber to a position within the other of the first processing chamber and the second chamber through the chamber valve after the chamber equalization port and the chamber valve have been opened. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of providing a source of ultrapure gas in communication with said first processing chamber and raising the pressure in the first processing chamber by diffusing said flow of gas from said ultrapure gas source into the first processing chamber. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of diffusing said flow of gas into the first processing chamber includes diffusing a flow of nitrogen gas into the first processing chamber. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of diffusing said flow of gas includes dispensing the gas through an elongate rod having gas supply openings substantially throughout its extension, the rod being coupled to the source of ultrapure gas, the gas supply openings creating an evenly distributed flow of gas as the gas flows into and through the rod. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the first processing chamber is an aerosol processing chamber that includes a nozzle fluidly connected to a source of cryogenic fluid, the nozzle for dispensing a stream of the cryogenic fluid toward a surface of a microelectronic device, when a microelectronic device is positioned within the first processing chamber. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of transferring the first microelectronic device from its position within one of the first processing chamber and the second chamber to a position within the other of the first processing chamber and the second chamber includes engaging the first microelectronic device with a robotic arm positioned in the second chamber, the robotic arm accessing the first processing chamber through the chamber valve interconnected between the first processing chamber and the second chamber. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the gas is dispensed from a sintered nickel rod. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of transferring the first microelectronic device from its position within one of the first processing chamber and the second chamber to a position within the other of the first processing chamber and the second chamber comprises transferring the first microelectronic device from the second chamber through the chamber valve and into the first processing chamber. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of transferring the first microelectronic device from its position within one of the first processing chamber and the second chamber to a position within the other of the first processing chamber and the second chamber comprises transferring the first microelectronic device from the first processing chamber through the chamber valve and into the second chamber. 10. The method of claim 9, further including the step of positioning a second microelectronic device into the first processing chamber after the first microelectronic device has been transferred through the chamber valve from the first processing chamber to the second chamber. 11. The method of claim 10, further including the steps of: sealing the first processing chamber after the second microelectronic device is positioned within the first processing chamber; reducing the pressure within the first processing chamber to the first pressure in preparation for processing the second microelectronic device; and processing the second microelectronic device by dispensing a stream of cryogenic fluid through the nozzle mounted within the first processing chamber, the stream of cryogenic fluid being dispensed toward the second microelectronic device to impinge upon a surface of the second microelectronic device to remove contaminants that may be contained on the surface of the second microelectronic device. 12. The method of claim 11, further including the step of diffusing said flow of gas through the first processing chamber concurrently with the processing of the second microelectronic device. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of diffusing said flow of gas concurrently with the processing of the second microelectronic device includes dispensing the gas through an elongate rod having gas supply openings substantially throughout its extension that is fluidly coupled to the source of ultrapure gas, the gas supply openings creating an evenly distributed flow of gas as the gas flows into and through the rod. 14. A method for processing a first microelectronic device by a cryogenic cleaning apparatus having a first processing chamber and a second chamber, the method comprising the steps of: providing a first microelectronic device; providing a first processing chamber at a first pressure, the first processing chamber having a chuck for supporting a microelectronic device within the first processing chamber, a nozzle for dispensing a stream of cryogenic aerosol, and a chamber valve to permit a microelectronic device to be transferred into and out of the first processing chamber; providing a second chamber at a second pressure that is greater than the first pressure, the second chamber being adjacent to said first processing chamber and openable to the first processing chamber by way of the chamber valve; supporting said first microelectronic device within the first processing chamber and reducing the pressure within the first processing chamber to a processing pressure; directing cryogenic aerosol against a surface of the first microelectronic device while the first processing chamber is held at the processing pressure; raising the pressure in the first processing chamber from the processing pressure to a transfer pressure that is at least equal to a pressure of the second chamber by providing a flow of gas to said first processing chamber; opening the chamber valve while the first processing chamber is at the transfer pressure and thereby providing access to an interior of the first processing chamber from the second chamber and also permitting gas flow between the first processing chamber and the second chamber; and transferring the first microelectronic device from the first processing chamber to the second chamber through the chamber valve after the chamber valve has been opened. 15. The method of claim 14, further including the step of opening a chamber equalization port that is operatively interconnected between the first processing chamber and the second chamber prior to opening the chamber valve and thus permitting gas flow between the first processing chamber and the second chamber in addition to the gas flow through the chamber valve. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of reducing the pressure within the first processing chamber to the processing pressure includes: closing the chamber valve; actuating a valve to permit gas flow between a vacuum pump and the first processing chamber; closing a chamber equalization port that permits gas flow between the first processing chamber and the second chamber; and actuating the vacuum pump to evacuate gas from within the first processing chamber and thereby reducing the pressure within the first processing chamber to the processing pressure. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of raising the pressure in the first processing chamber from the processing pressure to the transfer pressure includes diffusing said flow of gas into the first processing chamber by a gas diffusion element that is interconnected with a source of gas. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of transferring the first microelectronic device from the first processing chamber to the second chamber includes engaging the first microelectronic device with a robotic arm positioned in the second chamber, the robotic arm accessing the first processing chamber through the chamber valve. 19. The method of claim 14, further including the step of positioning a second microelectronic device within the first processing chamber and supporting the second microelectronic device on the chuck within the first processing chamber after the first microelectronic device has been transferred from the first processing chamber, and then reducing the pressure within the first processing chamber to the processing pressure. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the gas diffusion element comprises an elongate rod having gas supply openings substantially throughout its extension, the elongate rod positioned within the first processing chamber, said flow of gas being an evenly distributed flow of gas dispensed through the gas supply openings of the elongate rod. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the source of gas is an ultrapure gas source so that ultrapure gas is diffused as said flow of gas. 22. The method of claim 19, further including the steps: directing cryogenic aerosol against a surface of the second microelectronic device while the first processing chamber is held at the processing pressure; raising the pressure in the first processing chamber from the processing pressure to the transfer pressure by providing another flow of gas to said first processing chamber; opening the chamber valve while the first processing chamber is at the transfer pressure and thereby providing access to the interior of the first processing chamber from the second chamber and also permitting gas flow between the first processing chamber and the second chamber; and transferring the second microelectronic device from the first processing chamber to the second chamber through the chamber valve after the chamber valve has been opened. 