Provided is, among other things, a dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a charged grain delivery apparatus for directing charged grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; and an optical detection device for quantifying the amount of grains deposited.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a charged grain delivery apparatus for directing charged grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; and an optical detection device for quantifying the amount of grains deposited. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical detection device is a diffuse reflectance system comprising a source of focused light and at least one detector for measuring non-specular reflections of the focused light from the substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electrostatic chuck is movable between the charged grain delivery apparatus and the optical detection device, and wherein the apparatus further comprises: alignment brackets into which the substrates are fitted; and alignment devices at the charged grain delivery apparatus and at the optical detection device which interact with the alignment bracket to assure that the collection zone-corresponding regions of the substrate are reproducibly placed. 4. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a charged grain delivery apparatus for directing charged grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate at locations corresponding to the locations of the collection zones; a electronic processor for controlling depositions; and sensor inputs to the electronic processor including one or more deposition sensors placed on or adjacent to the electrostatic chuck for measuring the amount of grains deposited at the deposition sensors; wherein the electronic processor responds to data from the sensors to adjust current deposition parameters including flux of grains through the grain delivery apparatus and voltages applied at one or more collection zones to attract grains. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the sensor inputs further include inputs measuring for the flux of grains through the grain delivery apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: a post-deposition detection device for detecting the amount of grains deposited at locations corresponding to the locations of the collection zones; wherein the deposition data is sent to the electronic processor, which uses the data to adjust current deposition parameters. 7. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an external power source; an electrostatic chuck, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a movable receiver, connected to the external power source, on which receiver the electrostatic chuck is mounted, which movable receiver comprises a high voltage board comprising high voltage converters for amplifying to high voltages voltage supplied by the external power source, the high voltages for operating the electrostatic chuck, wherein the high voltages are localized near the electrostatic chuck where such voltages are needed. 8. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: an electronic processor for controlling depositions, wherein the movable receiver further comprises an addressing board which receives operating signals from the electronic processor and assigns locations on the electrostatic chuck a voltage or voltage adjustment and the amplitude of the voltage or voltage adjustment, and sends this information to appropriate channels of the high voltage board. 9. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; and a grain feed apparatus comprising: a tube for delivering grains towards the electrostatic chuck; a mechanical device for moving the grains having an outlet for inserting grains towards the tube; and one or more of: a gas driven Venturi having a Venturi well for pulling grains from the mechanical device and propelling, with the gas, the grains through the tube, or a gas source for directing gas towards the outlet of the mechanical device to separate grains and provide gas flow propelling grains through the tube. 10. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 9, wherein grains pass from the mechanical device, through the Venturi well, and into the tube in substantially a straight line. 11. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 9, wherein the grain feed apparatus further comprises a vibrator for enhancing the fluidity of the grains in the mechanical device. 12. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 9, wherein the mechanical device is an auger. 13. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; and a grain feed apparatus comprising: a tube for delivering grains towards the electrostatic chuck; and a baffle at the outlet of the tube for enhancing uniformity of a cloud of grains directed by the grain feed apparatus towards the electrostatic chuck. 14. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 12, wherein the grain feed apparatus further comprises a motor for rotating the baffle. 15. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; and a grain feed apparatus comprising a tube for delivering grains towards the electrostatic chuck, wherein the tube applies charge to the grains by tribocharging or induction charging. 16. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 15, wherein the tube has a grounded conductive layer for discharging charge accumulations in the tube. 17. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 16, further comprising: a electronic processor for controlling depositions; and a monitor for measuring the amount of charge discharged from the tube, wherein the electronic processor utilizes data from the monitor as an indicator of the amount of grains passing through the tube. 18. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a grain feed apparatus for delivering grains towards the electrostatic chuck; and a powder trap for recovering grains directed to the electrostatic chuck which are not adhered thereto, comprising a series of conductive baffles, with some baffles having a positive potential and others having a negative potential. 19. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: a grain delivery apparatus for directing grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate; and a diffuse reflection optical detection device comprising a source of focused light and at least one detector for measuring non-specular reflections of the focused light from the substrate, the optical detection device for measuring the amount of grains deposited on the substrate. 20. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 19, further comprising: an optical profilometer for measuring the amount of grains deposited on the substrate. 21. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: a grain delivery apparatus for directing grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate; and optical profilometer for measuring the amount of grains deposited on the substrate. 22. A dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a charged grain delivery apparatus for directing charged grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; and a sealing apparatus for sealing a covering substrate onto grain-coated locations of the first substrate. 23. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the optical detection device is an integrated diffuse reflectance and profilometry system. 24. The dry deposition apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: a powder dispenser for ejecting charged grains, wherein the powder dispenser is aligned to eject the grains towards an operating position of a surface of the electrostatic chuck on which the substrate is layered. 