An apparatus and method for assembling a lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold, and a gasket defining an axially extending bore, including a collet for supporting the gasket so that at least one of the front mold or the rear mold are insertable into the bore thereof, a robotic arm for inserting the front mold into the bore of the gasket, and a piston for inserting the rear mold into the bore of the gasket. The piston axially moves within the bore of the gasket a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds. Alternatively, the robotic arm can move the selected mold relative to the other mold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for assembling a lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold, and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore, comprising: a. means for supporting the gasket so that at least one of the front mold or the rear mold are insertable into the bore thereof; b. means for inserting the front mold into the bore of the gasket; c. means for inserting the rear mold into the bore of the gasket; and d. means for axially moving within the bore of the gasket a selected one of the front mold or the rear mold relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation distances between the molds to provide a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for each separation distance, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rear mold inserting means further comprises means for removing the rear mold from the bore of the gasket so that the rear mold inserting means can both insert the rear mold into the bore and remove the rear mold from within the bore. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising means for rotating a selected one of the gasket support means or the rear mold inserting means relative to the longitudinal axis of the gasket, wherein the rotating means rotates the selected one of the gasket supporting means or the rear mold inserting means after the rear mold inserting means removes the rear mold from the bore of the gasket so that the gasket is at a different rotational orientation when the rear mold inserting means reinserts the rear mold into the bore. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the rear mold inserting means comprises: a. a mold support plate adapted to detachably engage a portion of the rear mold when the gasket is disposed on the gasket support means; and b. means, connected to the mold support plate, for moving the mold support plate between an insert position, in which the mold support plate is adjacent a portion of the gasket support means, and a retracted position, in which the mold support plate is spaced apart from the gasket support means. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising means for rotating a selected one of the gasket support means or the rear mold inserting means relative to the longitudinal axis of the gasket, wherein the rotating means rotates the selected one of the gasket supporting means or the rear mold inserting means after the rear mold inserting means removes the rear mold from the bore of the gasket so that the gasket is at a different rotational orientation when the rear mold inserting means reinserts the rear mold into the bore. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising means for determining a selected dimension of the rear mold. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the determining means comprises: a. means for optically receiving an image of least a portion of the profile of the rear mold when in the retracted position; b. means for digitizing the image of the rear mold; and c. means for creating information from the digitized image of the rear mold, including information about a height of the rear mold, wherein the creating means generates a signal containing the information. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the axial moving means comprises: a. a piston adapted to detachably engage a selected one of the two molds when the molds are disposed within the bore of the gasket; b. an actuator which generates an output; c. means for mechanically coupling the actuator to a portion of the piston so that the output of the actuator translates into movement of the piston; and d. means for energizing the actuator. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for securing the molds within the bore at the desired separation distance from each other. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the securing means comprises a radial clamp. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the front mold inserting means is a robotic arm adapted to detachably engage a portion of the front mold, insert the front mold into the bore of the gasket at a predetermined axial position, and then disengage from the inserted front mold. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for providing fluid communication between the outer surface of the gasket and the molding cavity to facilitate axial movement of the molds relative to each other within the bore of the gasket. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the providing means comprises: a. a vent needle having a base end and a tip end adapted to penetrate through a portion of the gasket to communicate with the molding cavity thereof, wherein the tip end in fluid communication with the base end to allow fluid flow therebetween; and b. means for shifting the vent needle between a first position, in which the tip end of the vent needle is in fluid communication with the molding cavity of the gasket, and a second position, in which the tip end is spaced apart from the gasket and the molding cavity thereof. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the gasket support means further comprises means for indicating proper alignment of the gasket supported thereby. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for injecting a lens-forming fluid into the molding cavity. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the injecting means comprises: a. an injection needle having an insertion end that penetrates through a portion of the gasket to communicate with the port, a receiving end adapted to be in fluid communication with a supply of the lens-forming fluid, and a passage therethrough that allows the lens-forming fluid to traverse from the receiving end through the passage and out of the insertion end to communicate with the port; and b. means for conveying the injection needle between an insert position, in which the insertion end of the injection needle is in fluid communication with the port, and a withdrawn position, in which the insertion end is spaced apart from the gasket and the port thereof. 17. An apparatus for assembling a lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold, and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore, comprising: a. means for supporting the gasket so that both molds are insertable into the bore thereof; b. means for inserting the front mold into the bore of the gasket; c. means for inserting the rear mold into the bore of the gasket; and d. means for rotating relative to the longitudinal axis of the gasket a selected one of the front mold, the rear mold, or the gasket so that the two molds, when inserted within the bore of the gasket, are at one of a plurality of selected rotational orientations relative to each other to provide a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for each separation distance, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port. 18. An apparatus for assembling a lens-forming structure, the structure having a front mold, a rear mold, and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the bore, comprising: a. a gasket support to support the lens-forming structure; b. a robotic arm adapted to detachably engage a portion of the front mold and insert the front mold into the bore of the gasket; and c. a movable piston adapted to detachably engage a portion of the rear mold and insert the rear mold into the bore of the gasket, wherein at least one of the robotic arm or the piston axially moves the respective engaged front mold or rear mold within the bore of the gasket relative to the other mold to a desired one of a plurality of axial separation positions, in which the separation distance between the molds in the bore of the gasket is different for each desired axial separation position to provide a different molding cavity intermediate the front and rear molds for each separation distance, the molding cavity being in fluid communication with the port. 