Methods of screening for modulators of respiratory syncytial virus matrix protein interaction are described. A host cell carrying a nucleic acid sequence encoding RSV matrix protein or fragments of RSV matrix protein which can bind to RSV matrix protein is cultured and the RSV matrix protein or RSV fragments are expressed. The interaction of the expressed RSV matrix protein or fragments is measured. A test sample is then added to the expressed RSV matrix protein or fragments and the effect of the test sample on RSV matrix protein interaction is measured.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of screening for modulators of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) matrix protein interaction comprising the steps of: (a) culturing a host cell carrying a nucleic acid sequence coding (1) an RSV matrix protein or an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids fused to (2) a protein selected from the group consisting of maltose binding protein (MBP) and glutathione-S-transferase; (b) expressing said fused RSV matrix protein or said fused RSV matrix protein fragment in the cultured host cell of step (a); (c) measuring the interaction of said fused RSV matrix protein or fused RSV matrix protein fragment expressed in step (b); and (d) adding a test sample to said expressed fused RSV matrix protein or expressed fused RSV matrix protein fragment of step (c) and measuring the effect on RSV matrix protein interaction, wherein an increase in the RSV matrix protein interaction indicates the test sample promotes RSV matrix protein interaction and a decrease in the RSV matrix protein interaction indicates the test sample inhibits RSV matrix protein interaction. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid sequence carried by the cultured host cell of step (a) encodes an RSV matrix protein fused to MBP. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid sequence carried by the cultured host cell of step (a) encodes an N-terminal fragment of an RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids fused to MBP. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the RSV matrix protein interaction is measured in step (c) by measuring the amount of formation of monomers and dimers of the fusion RSV matrix protein-MBP or fusion RSV matrix protein fragment-MBP and the effect of the test sample added in step (d) is measured by the effect on the amount of formation of monomers and dimers, wherein an increase in the amount of monomers indicates the test sample inhibits RSV matrix protein interaction. 5. A method for screening for modulators of RSV matrix protein interaction comprising the steps of: (a) culturing yeast cells carrying: (1) a reporter construct comprising a promoter fused to an open reading frame encoding a reporter, (2) a gene encoding a transcription factor for the reporter of step (a)(1) having a DNA binding domain fused to a RSV matrix protein or to an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids, and (3) a gene encoding a transcription factor for the reporter of step (a)(1) having an activation domain fused to a RSV matrix protein or to an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids; (b) measuring the amount of expression of the reporter of step (a)(1) in the yeast cell culture of step (a), wherein an increase in the amount of expression of the reporter of step (a)(1) indicates the presence of RSV matrix protein interaction; and (c) adding a test sample to the yeast cell culture of step (b) and measuring the effect of the test sample on the amount of expression of the reporter of step (a)(1) in the yeast cell culture of step (b), wherein inhibition of the amount of expression of the reporter of step (a)(1) indicates the test sample inhibits RSV matrix protein interaction and enhancement of the amount of expression of the reporter of step (a)(1) indicates the test sample promotes RSV matrix protein interaction. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the reporter construct of step (a)(1) comprises a GAL1 promoter fused to a gene encoding His3. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the gene of step (a)(2) encodes a GAL4 DNA binding domain fused to said RSV matrix protein or said N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein, and the gene of step (a)(3) encodes a GAL4 activation domain fused to said RSV matrix protein or said N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the gene of step (a)(2) encodes the GAL4 DNA binding domain fused to a C-terminal fragment of the RSV matrix protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the gene of step (a)(2) is on an expression vector designated GBT-M (ATCC Accession No. 98327). 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the gene of step (a)(3) encodes the GAL4 activation domain fused to an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids, which N-terminal fragment can bind to said C-terminal fragment of the RSV matrix protein encoded by the gene of step (a)(2). 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein encoded by the gene of step (a)(3) is selected from the group consisting of RSV matrix protein fragments designated GAD-M3, GAD-M2, and GAD-M1. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the gene of step (a)(3) is on an expression vector designated GAD-M (ATCC Accession NO. 98326). 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the gene of step (a)(3) encodes the GAL4 activation domain fused to a C-terminal fragment of the RSV matrix protein comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:1. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the gene of step (a)(2) encodes the GAL4 binding domain fused to an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids, which N-terminal fragment can bind to said C-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein encoded by the gene of step (a)(3). 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein encoded by the gene of step (a)(3) is selected from the group consisting of RSV matrix protein fragments designated GAD-M3, GAD-M2, and GAD-M1. 16. The method of claim 5, wherein the cultured yeast cells are Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 17. The method of claim 5, wherein the reporter construct of step (a)(1) comprises a GAL1 promoter fused to a gene encoding His3; the gene of step (a)(2) encodes a GAL4 DNA binding domain fused to said RSV matrix protein, and the gene of step (a)(3) encodes a GAL4 activation domain fused to said RSV matrix protein. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the cultured yeast cells of step (a) are the yeast cells designated Saccharomyces cerevisiae GBT-M+GAD-M (ATCC Accession No. 74401). 19. A method of screening for modulators of RSV matrix protein interaction comprising the steps of: (a) culturing yeast cells carrying: (1) a reporter construct comprising from one to eight copies of a LexA operon fused to a gene encoding lacZ, (2) a gene encoding an RSV matrix protein or an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids fused to a LexA DNA binding domain under the control of a full length ADH1 promoter, and (3) a gene encoding an RSV matrix protein or an N-terminal fragment of said RSV matrix protein having at least 183 amino acids fused to the B42 protein activation domain under the control of a GAL1 promoter, in selective media; (b) measuring the effect on lacZ enzyme activity of the cultured yeast cells of step (a), wherein an increase in lacZ enzyme activity indicates the presence of RSV matrix protein interaction; and (c) adding a test sample to the yeast cell culture of step (b) and measuring the effect of the test sample on lacZ enzyme activity, wherein a decrease in lacZ enzyme activity indicates the test sample inhibits RSV matrix protein interaction and an increase in lacZ enzyme activity indicates the test sample promotes RSV matrix protein interaction. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the gene of step (a)(2) is on an expression vector designated LexA-M (ATCC Accession No. 98322). 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the gene of step (a)(3) is on an expression vector designated pB42-M (Accession No. 98323). 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the cultured yeast cells of step (a) are the yeast cells designated Saccharomyces cerevisiae LexA-M+pB40-M+1 and 2 (ATCC Accession No. 74400). 