Apparatus and concomitant method for performing priority-based scheduling of wafer processing within a multiple chamber semiconductor wafer processing system (cluster tool) having a dual blade wafer transfer mechanism. The sequencer assigns priority values to the chambers in a cluster tool, then moves wafers from chamber to chamber in accordance with the assigned priorities. The sequencer is capable of determining the amount of time available before a priority move is to be performed and, if time is sufficient, the sequencer performs a non-priority move while waiting. The sequencer also dynamically varies assigned priorities depending upon the availability of chambers in the tool. Lastly, the sequencer prioritizes the chambers based upon the minimum time required for the wafer transfer mechanism to move the wafers in a particular stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for scheduling a plurality of semiconductor wafers for processing within a multiple chamber, semiconductor wafer processing system having a plurality of chambers that are serviced by at least one multiple blade wafer transfer mechanism, said method comprising: assigning a priority to each chamber, each wafer, or both in said plurality of chambers; selecting a chamber having a highest priority or selecting a chamber containing a wafer having a highest priority; and moving a wafer from a selected chamber to a target chamber in accordance with the assigned priority of the selected chamber or wafer. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein, if a plurality of chambers have the highest priority, the selecting step further comprises the step of selecting a chamber having a highest priority and having a shortest remaining process time. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said multiple blade wafer transfer mechanism supports at least two wafers during moving step. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: determining a time to complete (T.sub.remains) processing for the selected chamber; computing a time to perform (T.sub.meanwhile) a wafer move for at least one other chamber; dividing T.sub.meanwhile by T.sub.remains to produce a quotient; comparing the quotient to a threshold value; if the quotient is less than the threshold value, then move the wafer in the selected chamber; and if the quotient is greater than the threshold value, then move a wafer in the other chamber. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of dynamically assigning priority to each chamber or wafer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein, if a wafer in said selected chamber is not completely processed, said transfer mechanism waits for said wafer to be completely processed. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of prepositioning a blade of said multiple blade wafer transport mechanism proximate an entrance to said selected chamber. 8. The method of claim 1, where said selected chamber is a pair of chambers and wherein said at least one multiple blade robot is a dual blade robot having a pair of blades that access a pair of chambers simultaneously. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one multiple blade robot comprises independently moveable blades. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one multiple blade robot comprises a pair of blades that move in unison. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: anticipating which of the chambers next requires a wafer to be removed as an anticipated chamber; and pre-positioning a robot blade proximate said anticipated chamber. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: using the prepositioned robot blade to perform another wafer movement if said anticipated chamber is not a chamber requiring a next wafer movement. 13. A computer readable medium for storing computer readable code that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to control a semiconductor wafer processing system to perform a method comprising the steps of: assigning a priority to each chamber within a cluster tool having a plurality of chambers, each wafer, or both in said plurality of chambers; selecting a chamber having a highest priority or selecting a chamber containing a wafer having a highest priority; and moving a wafer from a selected chamber to a target chamber in accordance with the assigned priority of the selected chamber or wafer. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein, if a plurality of chambers have the highest priority, the selecting step further comprises the step of selecting a chamber having a highest priority and having a shortest remaining process time. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein a multiple blade wafer transfer mechanism supports at least two wafers during moving step. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: determining a time to complete (T.sub.remains) processing for the selected chamber; computing a time to perform (T.sub.meanwhile) a wafer move for at least one other chamber; dividing T.sub.meanwhile by T.sub.remains to produce a quotient; comparing the quotient to a threshold value; if the quotient is less than the threshold value, then move the wafer in the selected chamber; and if the quotient is greater than the threshold value, then move a wafer in the other chamber. 17. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of dynamically assigning priority to each chamber, wafer or both. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein, if a wafer in said selected chamber is not completely processed, said transfer mechanism waits for said wafer to be completely processed. 19. The method of claim 13 wherein said moving step further comprises the step of pre-positioning a blade of a multiple blade wafer transport mechanism proximate an entrance to said selected chamber. 20. The method of claim 13, where said selected chamber is a pair of chambers and wherein said at least one multiple blade robot is a dual blade robot having a pair of blades that access a pair of chambers simultaneously. 21. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: anticipating which of the chambers next requires a wafer to be removed as an anticipated chamber; and pre-positioning a robot blade proximate said anticipated chamber. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of: using the prepositioned robot blade to perform another wafer movement if said anticipated chamber is not a chamber requiring a next wafer movement. 