An ink cartridge for an ink jet printer has an ink supply in a housing, a printhead fixedly attached thereto, and an interface seal between the housing and printhead. The ink is contained in an absorbent material in the housing which is partitioned from the printhead assembly by a housing wall having a vent and an ink outlet. The ink flow path from the housing outlet to the printhead inlet is produced by a recess in the outer surface of the housing wall covered by the interface seal. The seal is a porous member having a thermosetting adhesive layer on one side thereof. The porous member has a slot therethrough, and the adhesive is the type not attacked by the ink. The surface of the porous member with the adhesive is bonded to the housing wall. The thermosetting adhesive moves through the porous member and bonds to the printhead surface containing the ink inlet to the housing wall, when the adhesive is cured. The printhead ink inlet is of similar size and aligned with the porous member slot, so that the thermosetting adhesive assists in the attachment of the printhead assembly to the housing and concurrently provides the fluid seal between the housing and the printhead assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. A liquid ink supply cartridge for an ink jet printer having an interface seal between the cartridge and a printhead fixedly attached thereto, the cartridge containing ink therein and the printhead having nozzles and an ink inlet, the cartridge comprising: a housing having a chamber with liquid ink, the chamber having a vent and a wall, the wall having internal and external surfaces and an outlet therethrough; a recess in the external surface of the chamber wall connected to the chamber outlet; said interface seal being a flexible porous member having a predetermined thickness and shape and a slot therethrough at a predetermined location, the porous member having first and second surfaces with the first surface having a thermosetting adhesive layer thereon which is highly resistant to attack by the ink, the first surface of the porous member being aligned with and bonded to the external surface of the chamber wall, so that the recess and outlet are covered by the porous member to form a passageway from the outlet to the porous member slot; and said printhead being bonded to the second surface of the porous member with the porous member slot being aligned with the printhead inlet, so that curing of the adhesive causes the adhesive to move through the porous member, filling all pores or voids therein, and coating the porous member second surface, thereby providing a seal between the printhead inlet and the porous member slot and concurrently making the porous member impervious to air and ink and enabling direct bonding between the chamber wall and the printhead. 2. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the porous member is paper having a thickness of 4 to 10 mils. 3. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the porous member is a plastic material having a thickness of 4 to 10 mils. 4. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the porous member is a mesh material having a thickness of 4 to 10 mils. 5. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the adhesive on the first surface of the porous member is viscous enough when the adhesive is being cured, so that the adhesive moves through pores or voids in the porous member and fills the pores or voids and coats the second surface of the porous member, thereby enabling the printhead to be bonded directly to the chamber wall of the cartridge. 6. The cartridge of claim 5, wherein the adhesive softens and wets the chamber wall surface having the recess therein at a temperature of 80.degree. C. for about eight seconds with a pressure of about 50-90 psi; and wherein the adhesive tacks the porous member to the chamber wall when the adhesive cools to room temperature to prevent movement of the porous member relative to the external wall surface of the housing when the printhead is aligned with and mounted on the cartridge. 7. In an improved thermal ink jet printer which includes a cartridge having a supply of ink therein, said cartridge being in ink flow communication with nozzles of a printhead the improvement comprises an interface between the printhead and the cartridge which is sealed by a flexible porous member having a slot therethrough and having first and second surfaces coated with a thermal setting adhesive which fills all pores of said member, the porous member being impervious to air and ink the porous member further providing a direct bonding between the cartridge and printhead. 