An apparatus for precisely steering a beam of light by making use of a hybrid inter optical alignment precision which occurs when a beam steering mechanism is micromachined with respect to a crystallographic orientation of a substrate.
Claims I claim: 1. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a substrate defining one or more aligned cavities: a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam; an upper cavity provided in a portion of said substrate that is aligned to a predetermined degree of precision and in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a beam steering means provided in said upper cavity for controllably directing said beam; wherein said beam steering means comprises a gimbaled micromirror nested into one or more sets of gimbaled hinge means, wherein each set of gimbaled hinge means defines an independent axes of rotation of said gimbaled micromirror with respect to a frame holding an outermost set of said gimbaled hinge means and said outermost frame is connected at one edge with an upper surface of said substrate by a cantilever hinge means such that said beam steering means is capable of deflecting downwards into said upper cavity; a plurality of independently addressable electrodes disposed for positioning said gimbaled micromirror; a plurality of electrical lines in direct electrical communication with said independently addressable electrodes; and an electronic control means in communication with said electrical lines, such that said gimbaled micromirror is electrically driven to a predetermined angular orientation with respect to said outer most frame. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said gimbaled micromirror is provided with a conductive film adjacent to its surface and across said gimbaled hinge means such that said gimbaled micromirror is in electrical communication with said electronic control means. 3. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a substrate defining one or more aligned cavities; a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam; an upper cavity provided in a portion of said substrate that is aligned to a predetermined degree of precision and in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a beam steering means provided in said upper cavity for controllably directing said beam; wherein said beam steering means comprises a hybrid micromirror nested in any combination of cantilever hinge means and gimbaled hinge means providing one or more independent axes of rotation with respect to a frame holding the outer most hinge structure; wherein said outer most frame is connected at one edge with the surface of said substrate thereby forming a cantilever hinge means such that said beam steering means is capable of deflecting downwards into said upper cavity; a plurality of independently addressable electrodes disposed adjacent to said hybrid micromirror; a plurality of electrical lines in direct electrical communication with said independently addressable electrodes; an electronic control means in communication with said electrical lines, such that said hybrid micromirror is electrically driven to a predetermined angular orientation with respect to said outer most frame, and wherein said hybrid micromirror is provided with a conductive film adjacent to its surface and across said cantilever hinge means and said gimbaled hinge means such that said hybrid micromirror is in electrical communication with said electronic control means. 4. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a substrate defining one or more aligned cavities; a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam; an upper cavity provided in a portion of said substrate that is aligned to a predetermined degree of precision and in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a beam steering means provided in said upper cavity for controllably directing said beam; wherein said beam steering means is rigidly affixed in a predetermined orientation within said upper cavity and wherein a mechanical locking means for rigidly affixing said beam steering means within said upper cavity comprises one or more distal or lateral flaps extending beyond the distal or lateral edges, respectively, of said beam steering means such that when said beam steering means is deflected into said upper cavity, said distal or lateral flaps drag against one or more walls of said upper cavity and adhere to said wall by said surface forces. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said self solder means is provided on said distal or lateral flaps. 6. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a substrate defining one or more aligned cavities; a primary optical path means for accommodating the passage of a light beam; an upper cavity provided in a portion of said substrate that is aligned to a predetermined degree of precision and in direct communication with said primary optical path means; a beam steering means provided in said upper cavity for controllably directing said beam; wherein said beam steering means is rigidly affixed in a predetermined orientation within said upper cavity and wherein said mechanical locking means comprises one or more lockdown flaps extending beyond the edges of said upper cavity, such that after said beam steering means is deflected to said predetermined orientation within said upper cavity, said lockdown flaps are deflected downwards into said upper cavity until they adhere to said upper cavity wall by said surface forces, thereby preventing said beam steering means from deflecting upwards due to direct mechanical interference with said lockdown flaps. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said self solder means is provided on said lockdown flaps. 8. An optical beam steering apparatus comprising: a single substrate body defined by an upper surface and formed with at least one cavity including an upper cavity formed on the upper surface of the substrate body and a primary optical path for accommodating the passage of a light beam aligned in a predetermined orientation with the upper cavity; and a beam steering assembly having a steerable element positioned substantially adjacent the upper cavity for controllably directing the light beam in a direction substantially normal to the upper surface of the substrate body. 9. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the beam steering assembly is placed at a predetermined orientation within the upper cavity for controllably altering the optical path of an impinging beam in at least one direction that is emanating from or propagating towards the primary optical path. 10. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the primary optical path is a waveguide. 11. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the primary optical path is a groove formed in the substrate body for accommodating the passage of the light beam. 12. The optical apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the groove is a V-groove. 13. The optical apparatus according to claim 12 further comprising a primary optical element for accommodating the light beam wherein the primary optical element is provided within the V-groove. 14. The optical apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the primary optical element is selected from the group consisting of optical waveguides, refractive optical elements, reflective optical elements, phase optical elements, light detectors, beam splitters, lasers, light emitting diodes, incandescent light sources, fluorescent light sources, natural light sources and plasma light sources. 15. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the substrate body is formed of a crystal having a differential etch rate between different crystallographic planes. 16. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 wherein at least one cavity is anisotropically etched into the substrate body. 17. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the substrate body is formed of a solid material that supports the molding of geometrically precise cavities. 18. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising a cover plate for covering at least one cavity and an adjacent surface of the substrate body. 19. The optical apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the cover plate is formed from a material with at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of optically opaque, transparent, translucent, electrically conductive, and electrically insulative. 20. The optical apparatus according to claim 8 further comprising: a hinge for flexibly connecting the beam steering assembly with an upper edge of the upper cavity that is not coincident with the primary optical path; wherein the beam steering assembly includes at least one reflective surface such that the beam steering assembly is disposed within the upper cavity so that an impinging beam of light emanating from the primary optical path is controllably deflected in the same general direction the upper cavity is facing and wherein a beam of light entering from the same general direction the upper cavity is facing is controllably deflected towards said primary optical path. 21. A hybrid optical steering system comprising: a single substrate body defined by an upper surface and a lower surface and formed with at least one cavity including an upper cavity formed on the upper surface of the substrate body and a primary optical path for accommodating the passage of a light beam aligned in a predetermined orientation with the upper cavity; a lower cavity formed on the lower surface of the substrate body having a predetermined alignment with respect to the upper cavity; a suspended bridge spanning the primary optical path at a juncture between the primary optical path and the upper cavity; a beam steering assembly having a steerable element positioned substantially adjacent the upper cavity for controllably directing the light beam through at least a portion of the substrate body; and a hinge for flexibly anchoring the beam steering assembly to the suspended bridge wherein the beam steering assembly has at least one reflective surface and is rotated towards the upper cavity so that an impinging beam of light emanating from the primary optical path is controllably deflected in a direction generally from the upper cavity to the lower cavity and an impinging beam of light entering from the lower cavity is controllably deflected in a direction generally from the lower cavity to the upper cavity towards the primary optical path. 22. The optical apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising: a secondary optical element for accommodating a beam of light disposed within the lower cavity of the substrate body; means for aligning the secondary optical element within the lower cavity so that the secondary optical element is substantially centered in the lower cavity and the optical axis of the secondary optical element is aligned at a predetermined angle with respect to the lower surface of the substrate body. 23. The optical apparatus according to claim 22 wherein the secondary optical element is selected from the group consisting of optical fibers, refractive optical elements, reflective optical elements, phase optical elements, light detectors, beam splitters, lasers, light emitting diodes, incandescent light sources, fluorescent light sources, natural light sources and plasma light sources. 24. A micro-machined steerable optical device comprising: a single substrate body defined by an upper surface and formed with at least one cavity including an upper cavity formed on the upper surface of the substrate body and a primary optical path for accommodating the passage of a light beam aligned in a predetermined orientation with the upper cavity; a beam steering assembly having a steerable element positioned substantially adjacent to the upper cavity for controllably directing the light beam through at least a portion of the substrate body; and a frame and a gimbaled micromirror nested in at least one set of gimbaled hinges including a relatively outermost set of gimbaled hinges that provides additional axes of rotation of the gimbaled micromirror with respect to the frame and wherein the frame holds an outermost set of the gimbaled hinges and is connected to the upper surface of the substrate body by a hinge so that the beam steering assembly may deflect a light beam in a direction towards the upper surface. 25. The steerable optical device according to claim 24 further comprising: a plurality of independently addressable electrodes disposed about the gimbaled micromirror for positioning the micromirror in direct electrical communication with a plurality of electrical lines; and electronic control means in communication with the electrical lines for electrically driving the gimbaled micromirror to a predetermined angular orientation with respect to the frame. 26. The steerable optical device according to claim 24 wherein the gimbaled micromirror is defined by an electrically conductive and optically reflective surface and further includes a conductive film. 27. The steerable optical device according to claim 26 further including an insulating film covering at least a portion of the gimbaled micromirror. 28. A micro-machined steerable optical device comprising: a single substrate body defined by an upper surface and formed with at least one cavity including an upper cavity formed on the upper surface of the substrate body and a primary optical path for accommodating the passage of a light beam aligned in a predetermined orientation with the upper cavity; a beam steering assembly having a steerable element positioned substantially adjacent to the upper cavity for controllably directing the light beam through at least a portion of the substrate body; and a frame and a cantilevered micromirror nested in at least one set of cantilevered hinges including a relatively outermost set of cantilevered hinges that provides additional axes of rotation of the cantilevered micromirror with respect to the frame and wherein the frame holds an outermost set of the cantilevered hinges and is connected to the upper surface of the substrate body by a hinge so that the beam steering assembly may deflect a light beam in a direction towards the upper surface. 29. The steerable optical device according to claim 28 further comprising: a plurality of independently addressable electrodes disposed about the cantilevered micromirror for positioning the micromirror in direct electrical communication with a plurality of electrical lines; and electronic control means in communication with the electrical lines for electrically driving the cantilevered micromirror to a predetermined angular orientation with respect to the frame. 30. The steerable optical device according to claim 28 wherein the cantilevered micromirror is defined by an external surface and is formed with a conductive film adjacent to its external surface and across the at least one set of cantilevered hinges so that the cantilevered micromirror is in electrical communication with the electronic control means. 31. A micro-machined steerable optical device comprising: a single substrate body defined by an upper surface and formed with at least one cavity including an upper cavity formed on the upper surface of the substrate body and a primary optical path for accommodating the passage of a light beam aligned in a predetermined orientation with the upper cavity; a beam steering assembly having a steerable element positioned substantially adjacent to the upper cavity for controllably directing the light beam through at least a portion of the substrate body; and a frame and a hybrid micromirror nested in at least one set of cantilevered and gimbaled hinges including a relatively outermost set of hinges that provides additional axes of rotation of the hybrid micromirror with respect to the frame and wherein the frame holds an outermost set of the hinges and is connected to the upper surface of the substrate body by a hinge so that the beam steering assembly may deflect a light beam in a direction towards the upper surface. 32. The steerable optical device according to claim 31 further comprising: a plurality of independently addressable electrodes disposed about the hybrid micromirror for positioning the micromirror in direct electrical communication with a plurality of electrical lines; and electronic control means in communication with the electrical lines for electrically driving the hybrid micromirror to a predetermined angular orientation with respect to the frame. 33. The steerable optical device according to claim 31 wherein the hybrid micromirror is defined by an electrically conductive and optically reflective surface and further includes a conductive film. 34. The steerable optical device according to claim 33 further including an insulating film covering at least a portion of the hybrid micromirror. 35. An optical head assembly comprising: a single substrate body defined by an upper surface and formed with at least one cavity including an upper cavity formed on the upper surface of the substrate body and a primary optical path for accommodating the passage of a light beam aligned in a predetermined orientation with the upper cavity; and a beam steering assembly rigidly affixed in a predetermined orientation within at least a portion of the upper cavity having a steerable element positioned substantially adjacent the upper cavity for controllably directing the light beam through at least a portion of the upper cavity. 36. The optical apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the beam steering assembly is rigidly affixed within the upper cavity by chemical bonding with a chemical bonding agent. 37. The optical apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the beam steering assembly is rigidly affixed within the upper cavity with a surface force selected from the group consisting of surface tension, Van der Waals, and residual surface charge. 38. The optical apparatus according to claim 35 wherein the beam steering assembly is rigidly affixed within the upper cavity by thermal bonding with a thermal bonding agent. 39. The optical apparatus according to claim 35 further including self soldering means for rigidly affixing the beam steering assembly within the upper cavity. 40. The optical apparatus according to claim 35 further including a mechanical locking assembly for rigidly affixing the beam steering assembly within the upper cavity having at least one flap extending beyond the edges of the beam steering assembly so that when the beam steering assembly is deflected into the upper cavity the at least one flap drags against one or more walls of the upper cavity and adheres to each wall by a surface force. 41. The optical apparatus according to claim 40 wherein self solder means is provided on the at least one flap. 42. The optical apparatus according to claim 40 wherein the mechanical locking assembly comprises one or more lockdown flaps extending beyond the edges of the upper cavity so that after the beam steering assembly is deflected to the predetermined orientation within the upper cavity the lockdown flaps are deflected downwards into the upper cavity until adhered to the upper cavity wall by a surface force thereby preventing the beam steering assembly from deflecting from other directions due to direct mechanical interference with the one or more lockdown flaps. 43. The optical apparatus according to claim 42 wherein self solder means is provided on the one or more lockdown flaps. 44. The optical apparatus according to claim 40 wherein the mechanical locking assembly is characterized by an incomplete anisotropic etch of the upper cavity and the upper cavity is defined by a floor wherein the floor of the upper cavity is etched to a predetermined depth such that mechanical interference between a fully deflected beam steering assembly and the floor defines the predetermined orientation. 45. The optical apparatus according to claim 44 wherein the beam steering assembly is defined by a distal end and self solder means is provided on the distal end of the beam steering assembly. 