The present invention is an apparatus and method for automatically realigning an end effector of an automated equipment after an undesired contact of the end effector to prevent a crash of the end effector. The present invention includes a plurality of contact detectors, and each of the contact detectors is disposed at a respective location with respect to the end effector. In addition, each of the contact detectors generates a respective signal for indicating direction of force on the end effector that results from the undesired contact. Furthermore, the present invention includes an end effector controller that is coupled to the plurality of contact detectors and to the end effector. The end effector controller causes the end effector to move to a reset position after the undesired contact when any of the respective signals from the plurality of contact detectors is greater than a predetermined level. The reset position includes a respective positional off-set that corresponds to the direction of the force on the end effector that results from the undesired contact as indicated by which of the respective signals is greater than the predetermined level. In one aspect of the present invention, a carrier holds the end effector and allows movement of the end effector along the direction of the force on the end effector from the undesired contact. Such movement minimizes the stress of force on the end carrier and on the part with which the end effector has made undesired contact. In that aspect of the present invention, the direction of the force on the end effector is determined from direction of the movement of the end effector during the undesired contact. By automatically realigning the end effector after an undesired contact, a crash of the end effector is prevented.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for automatically realigning an end effector of an automated equipment after an undesired contact of said end effector with an object to prevent a crash of said end effector and to align said end effector with respect to said object, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of contact detectors, each of said contact detectors being disposed at a respective location with respect to said end effector, and each of said contact detectors responding to said contact by generating a respective signal for indicating direction of force on said end effector that results from said contact; and an end effector controller, coupled to said plurality of contact detectors and to said end effector, said end effector controller including means for controlling said end effector to move to a reset position to further align said end effector with said object after said contact when any of said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors is greater than a first predetermined level, said reset position including a respective positional off-set having an offset direction that corresponds to the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact, wherein said offset direction depends on which of said plurality of contact detectors generated said respective signal that is greater than said first predetermined level. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said end effector controller includes means to ignore said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors when each of said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors is less than said first predetermined level. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said end effector controller includes means to shut down any driving mechanism of said end effector and to notify an operator of said undesired contact when any of said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors is greater than a second predetermined level. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said end effector controller includes means to control said end effector to move with a new positional off-set having a new direction that is opposite to a last direction of a last positional off-set if subsequent contact of said end effector is detected by said plurality of contact detectors after a first predetermined number of sequential attempts to realign said end effector. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said end effector controller includes means to notify an operator of misalignment of said end effector if subsequent contact of said end effector is detected by said plurality of contact detectors after a second predetermined number of sequential attempts to realign said end effector. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a carrier for holding said end effector, said carrier allowing movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact, and wherein each of said plurality of contact detectors generates a respective signal for indicating the direction of said force on said end effector from direction of said movement of said end effector during said contact. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said carrier includes a hinge joint between said end effector and said carrier for allowing rotational movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said plurality of contact detectors includes a plurality of pneumatic cylinders, each pneumatic cylinder being disposed on a respective location on said carrier to retract when a respective direction of said force is applied on said end effector as a result of said contact, and wherein a respective signal from each pneumatic cylinder indicates a respective level of retraction of the corresponding pneumatic cylinder. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said plurality of contact detectors further includes a respective switch, for each pneumatic cylinder, that turns on when the corresponding pneumatic cylinder retracts beyond said first predetermined level, said respective switch of each pneumatic cylinder being coupled to said end effector controller for indicating direction of said force applied on said end effector depending on which respective switch turns on. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said carrier includes a compressed air spring disposed on said end effector for movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact by deformation of said compressed air spring, wherein a location of deformation of said compressed air spring indicates the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said plurality of contact detectors includes a plurality of sensors disposed around said compressed air spring for detecting the location of deformation of said compressed air spring, each of said plurality of sensors being disposed at a respective location around said compressed air spring and generating a respective signal for indicating the level of deformation of said compressed air spring near said respective location on said compressed air spring. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said end effector controller includes means to pick up automotive parts within an assembly line during manufacture of automotive systems. 13. An apparatus for automatically realigning an end effector of an automated equipment after an undesired contact of said end effector with an object to prevent a crash of said end effector and to align said end effector with respect to said object, the apparatus comprising: means responding to said contact for determining direction of force on said end effector that results from said contact; and means for controlling said end effector to move to a reset position after said contact, said reset position including a respective positional off-set having an offset direction that corresponds to the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact, to prevent crash of said end effector and to further align said end effector with said object, wherein said offset direction depends on which of said plurality of contact detectors generated said respective signal that is greater than said first predetermined level. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a carrier for holding said end effector, said carrier including means for allowing movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact; and wherein said direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact is determined from direction of said movement of said end effector during said contact. 15. A method for automatically realigning an end effector of an automated equipment after an undesired contact of said end effector with an object to prevent a crash of said end effector and to align said end effector with respect to said object, the method including the steps of: determining direction of force on said end effector that results from said contact by analyzing a respective signal generated by each of a plurality of contact detectors; determining a reset position for said end effector after said contact, said reset position including a respective positional off-set having an offset direction that corresponds to the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact; wherein said offset direction depends on which of said plurality of contact detectors generated said respective signal that is greater than said first predetermined level; and controlling said end effector to automatically move to said reset position after said contact when any of said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors is greater than a predetermined level, to prevent a crash of said end effector and to further align said end effector with said object. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of: ignoring said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors when each of said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors is less than said first predetermined level such that said end effector does not move to said reset position. 17. The method of claim 15, further including the step of: shutting down any driving mechanism of said end effector and notifying an operator of said undesired contact when any of said respective signals from said plurality of contact detectors is greater than a second predetermined level. 18. The method of claim 15, further including the step of: allowing movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact; and determining the direction of said force on said end effector from direction of said movement of said end effector during said contact. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein a hinge joint allows said movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein each of a plurality of pneumatic cylinders is disposed at a respective location with respect to said end effector to retract when a respective direction of said force is applied on said end effector as a result of said contact, and wherein a respective signal from each pneumatic cylinder indicates a respective level of retraction of the corresponding pneumatic cylinder, and wherein the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact is determined from a respective level of retraction of each of said at least one pneumatic cylinder. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein a compressed air spring disposed on said end effector allows movement of said end effector along the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact by deformation of said compressed air spring, wherein a location of deformation of said compressed air spring indicates the direction of said force on said end effector that results from said contact. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein a plurality of sensors disposed around said compressed air spring detects the location of deformation of said compressed air spring. 