The correction method of the invention synthesizes a distortion-free interferogram (or spectrum) from a measured interferogram, which has been distorted by detector non-linearities, and a finite series of orthogonal functions derived therefrom. The coefficients of the series of functions are selected with a priori knowledge about the limited spectral sensitivity of the radiation detector, preferably with the method of Gaussian least squares fit of observation, such that the resulting spectrum assumes the value of zero of the distortion-free spectrum outside of the sensitivity range, and in freely-definable ranges. The method of the invention can be used to correct detector non-linearities, as occur in Fourier spectroscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the spectroscopic investigation of electromagnetic radiation in the infrared spectrum by means of a Fourier spectrometer, whereby an interferogram is measured as the output signal of a detector comprising a sensor that is sensitive to the radiation to be detected, and amplifier electronics tuned thereto, in such a way that, through correction of a measured output signal I.sub.m, which is distorted due to detector non-linearities, a distortion-free interferogram is approximated by synthesizing a signal I.sub.s that is proportional to the required distortion-free interferogram of the detector from a finite mathematical series of orthogonal functions in such a way that the function terms of said mathematical series are based on the distorted measured output signal I.sub.m of the detector in the form I.sub.s =f(I.sub.m), characterized in that the determination of unknown coefficients a.sub.i takes place after Fourier transformation of the finite function series f(I.sub.m) in the spectral range in such a way that the resulting spectrum S.sub.s, which represents the Fourier transform of the signal I.sub.s that is proportional to the required distortion-free interferogram of the detector, possesses, in the spectral ranges in which the radiation detector has no or only a negligible optical sensitivity, spectral values that are as close to the ideal value zero as possible. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the interferogram contains, in an encoded form, all information about the spectrum, and wherein the Fourier transform decodes the spectrum information. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein a distortion-free interferogram I.sub.s is synthesized as a linear combination of orthogonal functions f.sub.i (I.sub.m) comprising coefficients a.sub.i, such that I.sub.s =.SIGMA.a.sub.i f.sub.i (I.sub.m). 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the coefficients a.sub.i are necessary for an unambiguous description of the synthesized interferogram I.sub.s, are obtainable from knowledge about the optical radiation detector. 5. The method according to claim 3, comprising determining the coefficients a.sub.i according to a Fourier transformation of the finite function series I.sub.s =.SIGMA.a.sub.i f.sub.i (I.sub.m) such that a resulting spectrum S.sub.s, which comprises a Fourier transformation of the signal I.sub.s, is substantially zero in a spectral range in which the radiation detector exhibits negligible optical sensitivity. 6. The method according to claim 5, comprising determining the coefficients a.sub.i according to a Fourier transformation of the finite function series I.sub.s =.SIGMA.a.sub.i f.sub.i (I.sub.m) such that a resulting spectrum S.sub.s which comprises a Fourier transformation of the signal I.sub.s, is substantially zero in an additional spectral range in which the radiation detector exhibits non-negligible optical sensitivity. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the additional spectral range is a range of total absorption. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the method comprises taking of measurements under atmospheric influence, and wherein the range of total absorption comprises a spectral range wherein atmospheric gas components absorb substantially all of the radiation led to the detector. 9. The method according to claim 3, wherein the functions f.sub.i comprise polynomials of the form f.sub.i =I.sub.m.sup.i. 10. The method according to claim 9, characterized in that the unknown coefficients a.sub.i are determined by means of the method of Gaussian least squares fit. 11. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the finite series of functions f(I.sub.m) is represented by a series of polynomials of the form a.sub.i I.sub.m.sup.i in such a way that the coefficients a.sub.i are determined. 12. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the determination of the unknown coefficients a.sub.i is carried out with the linear Gaussian method of at least squares. 13. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that, in addition to the spectral ranges in which the radiation detector has no or only a negligible optical sensitivity, further spectral ranges are used for the determination of the coefficient a.sub.i in which no fraction of the radiation impinges on the optical radiation detector because of the spectrometric arrangement. 14. A method according to claim 13, characterized in that the additionally used spectral ranges are so-called ranges of total absorption. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said ranges of total absorption comprise measurements performed under atmospheric influence, when the atmospheric gas components in known spectral ranges absorb the entire radiation to be guided to the detector. 