A process and apparatus for freeze drying of liquid material in a vessel in which the vessels are moved automatically through various stages including loading vessels onto racks, washing vessels in an inverted position, sterilizing vessels and racks, filling vessels with a liquid material, rotating the vessels and the liquid material contained within each vessel at a speed that allows the liquid to form a shell against the inner surface of the vessel, subjecting the vessels and the liquid material contained therein to freezing conditions sufficient to freeze the material into the form of a shell and then moving the rack and the vessels containing the frozen material through a vacuum drying chamber in which the frozen liquid material is dried.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for carrying out freeze drying of liquid material in a vessel, in which vessels are moved automatically through various process stages up to and including being subjected to vacuum drying conditions, said process stages comprising: (a) loading racks with vessels to be filled, such that said vessels are held apart at individual locations in the racks, each said vessel comprising a vessel base and a vessel wall having an outer surface and an inner surface; (b) washing the vessels and racks, said vessels being in an inverted position so that washing water will drain therefrom; (c) sterilising the vessels and racks; (d) filling the vessels with liquid material to be frozen therein; (e) rotating the vessels containing the liquid material to be frozen at a speed not less than that required to maintain the liquid in a shell of substantially uniform thickness against the inner surface of the vessel wall by the action of centifugal force while subjecting the liquid material to freezing conditions sufficient to freeze the material as said shell, wherein vessels are removed from the racks and are rotated remote from the racks and after a preset time to complete freezing, the rotating is stopped and the vessels are returned to the racks; and f) moving the racks with the vessels containing the material that has been frozen held at individual locations into and through a vacuum drying chamber to dry the material that has been frozen. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (d), the liquid material is introduced into each vessel while the vessel is rotating, the rotation being maintained during stage (e). 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (e) each vessel is rotated about a longitudinal axis thereof while being held in a substantially horizontal position. 4. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the liquid material to be frozen is an aqueous drug and each vessel is a vial of about 10 to 40 mm in diameter and carries at least one unit dose of drug. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (e), said freezing conditions are achieved by injecting a freezing gas into each vessel. 6. A process as claimed in claim 5 wherein the gas is nitrogen gas at about -50.degree. C. 7. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (e), the freezing conditions are maintained for 40 to 90 seconds. 8. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (e), each vessel is rotated at about 2500 to about 3500 revolutions per minute. 9. A process as claimed in claim 1 further including a first weighing step wherein each vessel is weighed while empty in the rack and a second weighing step wherein each vessel is weighed after the material has been frozen therein, to check that a correct amount of material has been frozen within the vessel. 10. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (f), within the vacuum drying chamber, heat is applied radially inwardly from a heater over a substantial surface area of the shell of the material that has been frozen in each vessel. 11. A process as claimed in claim 10 wherein a distance between the heater and the shell of the material that has been frozen is 5 mm or less. 12. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein during stage (b) the vessels are washed by injecting washing water up through the racks and into the vessels. 13. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the vessels are loaded upside-down onto the rack in stage (a) so as to be disposed in an inverted position and are then subsequently washed and sterilised in said inverted position. 14. A process as claimed in claim 13 wherein the vessels are removed from the racks prior to stage (d) and returned to the racks in said inverted position after stages (d) and (e), and are then turned so as to be upside-up onto a rack before stage (f). 15. A vessel having a vessel wall with an inner surface and an outer surface and having a lyophilised material formed as a shell on the inner surface of the vessel wall, said shell being produced by the process of claim 1. 16. Apparatus for freeze-drying a liquid material contained in a sterilised vessel having a vessel base and vessel wall with an inner surface and an outer surface so that said liquid material forms a shell of substantially uniform thickness on the inner surface of said vessel wall and in which a plurality of said vessels are moved automatically through various process stages up to and including being subjected to vacuum drying conditions; said apparatus comprising: racks which include individual locations for locating vessels such that they are held apart; a washer for washing and a steriliser for sterilising the vessels and racks; rotatable grippers for removing the vessels from the racks and returning the vessels to the racks, and for holding a vessel and rotating said vessel about a longitudinal axis thereof at a high speed so as to maintain liquid material against the inner surface of the vessel wall by centrifugal force; filling means connected to a liquid material supply for introducing liquid material into the vessel; freezing means for freezing the liquid material in the form of a shell of substantially uniform thickness against the inner surface of the vessel wall; a vacuum drying chamber containing a heater; and a conveyor to move racks holding the vessels containing the material that has been frozen into and through the vacuum drying chamber, and to move subsequent racks loaded with vessels into position for filling and freezing. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the means for freezing the liquid material includes an elongate nozzle cooperating with a connector for connecting to a gas supply, the nozzle being inserted through a neck of each vessel while the vessel is rotating to introduce the gas into the vessel. 18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 17 wherein the elongate nozzle is provided with a plurality of ports along a length thereof through which the gas is injected. 19. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the filling means is a filling nozzle cooperating with a connector for connecting to a liquid material supply, the filling nozzle being inserted through a neck of the vessel to introduce liquid material into the vessel. 20. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 which further includes a movable elongate arm located adjacent the conveyor, filling means, and freezing means, said elongate arm having a plurality of rotatable grippers equispaced along a length thereof, said elongate arm being adapted to move a plurality of vessels held in the plurality of grippers from the conveyor to the filling means and freezing means. 21. Apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein the elongate arm is moveable vertically from a first position in which the plurality of grippers are substantially perpendicular to and spaced above the conveyor, to a second position approximately one vessel length from the conveyor so as to take hold of a respective plurality of vessels, and a third position adjacent the filling means and freezing means for filing the vessels with liquid material and freezing the liquid material in the vessels. 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein a robotic handler is coperably connected to the elongate arm to control and move the arm, said handler being fixedly located adjacent the conveyor, and filling means and freezing means such that the arm can swing through substantially 90.degree. in a substantially horizontal plane between said first position in which the arm and plurality of rotatable grippers are substantially perpendicular to the conveyor and the third position in which the elongate arm and rotatable grippers are disposed substantially parallel to and to the side of the conveyor and adjacent the filling and freezing means ready for filling and freezing. 23. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein each of the plurality of rotatable grippers comprises a drive shaft, an outer casing, fingers connected to a base and axially movable into and out of said casing, resilient means, complementary projections and recesses provided on the outer wall of the fingers and on the inner wall of said casing, such that the fingers are moved axially outwardly of the casing in opposition to the resilient means and said projections are received into said recesses thereby allowing the fingers to open and to release a vessel, and are moved inwardly of said casing by said resilient means, said projections and recesses sliding out of engagement thereby closing the fingers around a vessel. 24. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein the grippers is provided with a drive shaft and further including a rotatable driver comprising a drive motor and a drive belt, said drive belt extending round the drive shaft and drive motor so as to rotate the gripper. 25. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the conveyor comprises parallel side support members; a plurality of parallel shafts suspended between the support members; rotatable rollers mounted on the shafts to support the racks; and a driver to drive the racks along the rollers. 26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 25 wherein the driver includes rotatable gear wheels mounted on shafts along the conveyor, so as to grip a base of the rack resting on the rollers and move the rack along the conveyor. 27. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein each rack comprises a tray having upper and lower surfaces and having equispaced location apertures extending through the tray for locating the vessels, at least one air flow aperture, and at least one abutment adjacent each location aperture which trace a circumference of the vessel base about a vertical axis of the locating aperture to form a locating flange on which the vessel can be located in an upright position. 28. Apparatus as claimed in claim 26 wherein teeth are provided on the base of the rack for engaging with the gear wheels. 29. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the heater within the vacuum drying chamber directs heat radially inwardly from the heater to the shell of the material that has been frozen. 30. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the heater is a heating block having at least one heating chamber for receiving and extending substantially round the whole circumference of the vessel, an inner wall of said heating chamber emitting heat radially inwardly to the shell of the material that has been frozen. 31. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the heater comprises a series of heating blocks, each maintained at a different temperature and spaced from one another along a length of the vacuum chamber, such that as racks of vessels are moved along the chamber by the conveyor, the vessels are heated by successive heating blocks to successively higher temperatures to thereby dry the shell of the material that has been frozen within the vessels. 32. Apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein the heater comprises parallel heated walls extending substantially along a length of the conveyor and directing heat to the shell of the material that has been frozen such that the shell of material that has been frozen is dried as the racks with the vessels move along the conveyor between the heated walls. 33. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the heater has one of conduits extending therethrough and elements attached thereto for carrying a liquid to control a temperature of the heater. 34. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein walls of the heater are at a distance of 5 mm or less from the outer surface of the vessel wall during a drying cycle. 