Apparatus is disclosed for applying a fluid to a surface and adapted to be mounted on a holder, the apparatus is adjustable in a plurality of directions and includes at least one nozzle which can be rotated by the apparatus. The apparatus includes a feed line for supplying the fluid, a housing for transmitting rotary movement, a rotatable shaft having a longitudinal axis and rotatably mounting the housing, the at least one nozzle mounted on the rotatable shaft, and the feed line is connected to the housing, the housing including a first channel for supplying the fluid from the feed line through the housing, a second channel formed adjacent to the housing for supplying the fluid from the first channel to the rotatable shaft irrespective of the rotatable position of the rotatable shaft, and a third channel arranged at least partially in the rotatable shaft for supplying the fluid from the second channel to the at least one nozzle.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for the application of a fluid to a surface and adapted for mounting on a holder, said apparatus being adjustable between a plurality of directions and including at least one nozzle which can be rotated thereby, said apparatus including feed means for supplying said fluid, swivel means including a housing, a rotatable shaft having a longitudinal axis and rotatably mounting said housing, said at least one nozzle being mounted on said rotatable shaft, said feed means connected to said housing, and said housing including a first channel for supplying said fluid from said feed means through said housing, a second channel formed adjacent to said housing for supplying said fluid from said first channel to said rotatable shaft irrespective of the rotatable position of said rotatable shaft, and a third channel arranged at least partially in said rotatable shaft for supplying said fluid from said second channel to said at least one nozzle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second channel comprises an annular channel disposed perpendicularly to said longitudinal axis of said rotatable shaft. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one nozzle comprises three nozzles, each of said three nozzles being aimed in a different direction. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 including at least one valve for controlling the supply of said fluid from said feed means to said at least one nozzle, said at least one valve being mounted on said housing, and being connected between said second channel and said third channel. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing includes an inner circumferential surface and said second channel comprises an annular channel open towards said inner circumferential surface of said housing. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said housing and said rotatable shaft include a corresponding circumference therebetween, and wherein said third channel comprises an annular channel for said at least one valve and said at least one nozzle, said third channel being disposed at said corresponding circumference between said rotatable shaft and said housing and being open towards at least part of said corresponding circumference. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 including a nozzle head for mounting said at least one nozzle, and a positioning lance including an extension channel for each of said at least one valve and each of said at least one nozzle for supplying said fluid from said rotatable shaft to said nozzle head, said positioning lance being disposed between said swivel means and said nozzle head, said swivel means comprising a first module, each of said at least one valve comprising a second module, said nozzle head comprising a third module, and said positioning lance comprising a fourth module. 