A method is provided for optimizing the operation of an equipment control system having an operating unit. In the method, an operating entity operable to perform a specific function is automatically added to the operating unit when such function is required of the operating unit. When the specific function of the operating entity is no longer required, the operating entity is automatically deleted from the operating unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for optimizing the operation of an equipment control system having an operating unit, the method comprising the steps of: automatically adding to the operating unit an operating entity comprising at least one server operable to perform a specific function when such function is required of the operating unit by determining whether any server is currently active and starting a server if it is determined that no server is currently active; and automatically deleting from the operating unit the operating entity when the specific function of the operating entity is no longer required. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the operating entity comprises at least one macro. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the equipment control system further comprises a memory coupled to the operating unit, and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: automatically adding software code associated with the operating entity into the memory when the operating entity is added to the operating unit; and automatically deleting the software code associated with the operating entity when the operating entity is deleted from the operating unit. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of automatically adding further comprises the steps of: determining if any space is available in any servers which are currently active; and adding an appropriate macro to a server if it is determined that such server has available space. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of automatically deleting further comprises the steps of: determining whether a macro is protected; and deleting the macro if it is determined that the macro is not protected. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of automatically deleting further comprises the steps of: determining whether a server is empty; determining whether the server is a primary server if it is determined that the server is empty; and shutting down the server if it is determined that the server is not a primary server. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of automatically adding comprises the step of adding a server, and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: determining whether the server is full; and marking the server as full if it is determined that the server is full. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of automatically deleting further comprises the steps of: determining whether a macro is currently running; and deleting the macro if it is determined that the macro is not currently running. 9. A method for optimizing the operation of an equipment control system having an operating unit coupled to a memory, the method comprising the steps of: automatically adding to the operating unit an operating entity comprising at least one server operable to perform a specific function when such function is required of the operating unit by determining whether any server is currently active and starting a server if it is determined that no server is currently active; automatically adding software code associated with the operating entity into the memory when the operating entity is added to the operating unit; automatically deleting from the operating unit the operating entity when the specific function of the operating entity is no longer required; and automatically deleting the software code associated with the operating entity when the operating entity is deleted from the operating unit. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of automatically adding to the operating unit further comprises the steps of: determining if any space is available in any servers which are currently active; and adding an appropriate macro to a server if it is determined that such server has available space. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of automatically deleting further comprises the steps of: determining whether a macro is protected; and deleting the macro if it is determined that the macro is not protected. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of automatically deleting comprises the steps of: determining whether a server is empty; determining whether the server is a primary server if it is determined that the server is empty; and shutting down the server if it is determined that the server is not a primary server. 13. An equipment control system comprising: a memory operable to store software code associated with an operating entity comprising at least one secondary server which can perform a specific function; and an operating unit coupled to the memory, the operating unit comprising a primary server operable to add the operating entity to the operating unit when the specific function is required of the operating unit, by determining whether any secondary server is currently active and starting a secondary server if it is determined that no secondary server is currently active; the primary server further operable to delete from the operating unit the operating entity when the specific function of the operating entity is no longer required. 14. The equipment control system of claim 13, wherein the operating entity comprises at least one macro. 15. The equipment control system of claim 13, wherein: the software code associated with the operating entity is automatically added into the memory when the operating entity is added to the operating unit; and the software code associated with the operating entity is automatically deleted from the memory when the operating entity is deleted from the operating unit. 16. The equipment control system of claim 13, wherein the primary server is further operable to determine whether a macro is protected. 17. The equipment control system of claim 16, wherein the primary server is further operable to delete the macro if it is determined that the macro is not protected. 18. The equipment control system of claim 13, wherein the primary server is further operable to determine whether a secondary server is empty and to shut down the secondary server if it is determined that the secondary server is empty. 19. An equipment control system, comprising: a first macro that may not be deleted; a second macro that may be deleted, the second macro operable to perform at least a subset of the functionality provided by the first macro; and a server process resident on a computer-readable storage medium and operable to: activate the first macro whenever the server process is running; activate the second macro when the second macro is required; and deactivate the second macro when the second macro is no longer required. 20. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the second macro performs substantially the same functions as the first macro. 21. The equipment control system of claim 19, further comprising an additional plurality of macros, each of the additional plurality of macros activated to supply functions required by the server process when it is running. 22. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the second macro is required when the server process needs additional resources to perform the functions provided by the first macro. 23. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the server process is operable to activate the second macro when the server process has a threshold number of messages waiting to be processed. 24. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the second macro is no longer required when the second macro has completed processing. 25. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the server process is further operable to terminate processing of the first macro. 26. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the first macro may automatically terminate processing. 27. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the server process is further operable to deactivate the second macro by terminating processing of the second macro, and deleting the second macro. 28. The equipment control system of claim 19, wherein the second macro may automatically terminate processing when the second macro is no longer required. 