An apparatus and process for allowing a powder paint system to utilize reclaimed oversprayed powder paint of various colors by collecting it in a common reclaim collector system. The reclaimed powder paint is then applied to a work piece as a base coat to attain a portion of the total film build required. The remainder of the film thickness is then applied in subsequent application of virgin powder paint.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of painting a series of articles comprising the steps of: (a) applying at least one layer of powder paint containing reclaimed powder paint to one of the articles and collecting the powder paint not deposited on the article in a reclaim system; (b) applying to the article an outer layer of color specific powder paint, having a color different from that of the powder paint containing reclaimed powder paint, the outer layer being applied over the at least one layer of step (a) without first heating the powder paint containing reclaimed powder paint of the at least one layer, and collecting the color specific powder paint not deposited on the article in the reclaim system; and (c) the collected powder paint in the reclaim system thereby providing a source for application of reclaimed powder paint on subsequent articles without cleaning the reclaim system when changing to a different color specific powder paint. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying a sufficient quantity of the color specific powder paint in step (b) to provide a specified color for the outer layer while applying a sufficient quantity of the powder paint containing reclaimed powder paint in step (a) to attain a pre-determined powder paint film thickness. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying a sufficient thickness of the outer layer of step (b) over the at least one layer of step to assure the color of the outer layer (a). 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying the at least one layer of step (a) to a thickness such that substantially all of the powder paint reclaimed in steps (a) and (b) will be utilized. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying the outer layer of step (b) to a thickness such that a pre-determined powder paint film thickness is attained together with the at least one layer of step (a). 