An end effector for loading and unloading a magnetic information storage circular disk on a grinder carrier surface includes an effector block, an annular vacuum cup, including vacuum apertures, attached to and extending from the block and a vacuum source for attaching the cup to the disk. The annular cup surrounds and abuts against a periphery of a central aperture of the disk. A disk-carrying effector further includes a series, preferably three, of spaced vacuum cups extending radially outwardly of the annular vacuum cup. The overall effector is placed into abutment with radially outward portions of the disk surface and used to reliably unload a ground disk from a grinding surface. The spaced vacuum cups compensate for any non-planarity of the disk to be picked up caused by uneven wear of the grinder surface upon which the disk rests.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for loading and unloading a magnetic information storage circular disk having a central aperture, onto and from a carrier surface, the carrier surface forming a processing station for the disk, said effector comprising: an effector block; an annular vacuum cup, including first vacuum apertures, attached to a lower end of said block and being sized to surround and to abut a peripheral top surface of the disk surrounding the disk central aperture; at least one second spaced vacuum cup extending radially outwardly from the annular vacuum cup; a vacuum source in communication with said vacuum apertures and to an interior of said at least one second spaced vacuum cup; and wherein imposition of vacuum from said vacuum source to said apertures and to said at least one second spaced vacuum cup vacuum holds the disk on said annular vacuum cup and on the at least one second spaced vacuum cup. 2. The effector of claim 1 wherein said at least one second spaced vacuum cup includes a cylindrical block including a central axial vertical through-bore in said block. 3. The effector of claim 1 wherein said at least one second spaced vacuum cup comprises three cups which are approximately equally spaced about said annular vacuum cup. 4. The effector of claim 1 wherein a bottom end of the at least one second spaced vacuum cup is substantially in the same plane as a bottom end of the annular vacuum cup and is at a radial distance such that in use the at least one second spaced vacuum cup vacuum holds radial portions of a disk to be unloaded from the carrier surface. 5. The effector of claim 1 further comprising a single vacuum source connected to said annular vacuum cup and the at least one second spaced vacuum cup. 6. The effector of claim 1 wherein the carrier surface is a bottom platen of a grinder stone. 7. The effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one second spaced vacuum cup has a flexible lip compensating for any non-planarity of a disk on the carrier surface. 8. The effector of claim 1 wherein the at least one second spaced vacuum cup comprises a series of second spaced vacuum cups approximately equally spaced about said annular vacuum cup. 