The invention comprises a multi-color, comparative hybridization assay method using an array of nucleic acid target elements attached to a solid support for the simultaneous detection of both gene expression and chromosomal abnormalities in a tissue sample. The method of the invention employs a comparative hybridization of a tissue mRNA or cDNA sample labeled in a first fluorescent color, a tissue chromosomal DNA sample labeled in a second fluorescent color, and at least one reference nucleic acid labeled in a third fluorescent color, to the array. The fluorescent color presence and intensity at each of at least two target elements are detected and the fluorescent ratios (i) of the first and third colors and (ii) the second and third colors determined. Gene expression and chromosomal abnormalities are thus simultaneously detected.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for simultaneous detection of gene expression and chromosomal abnormality in a tissue sample comprising: (a) providing an array of nucleic acid target elements attached to a solid support wherein the nucleic acid target elements comprise polynucleotide sequences substantially complementary under preselected hybridization conditions to nucleic acids indicative of gene expression and indicative of chromosomal sequence of a tissue sample; (b) providing at least three labeled nucleic acid populations: (i) a mRNA or cDNA population labeled with a first marker and derived from the tissue sample, (ii) a chromosomal DNA population labeled with a second marker and derived from the tissue sample, and (iii) at least one reference nucleic acid population labeled with a third marker; (c) contacting the array with the labeled nucleic acid populations under hybridization conditions; and (d) detecting presence and intensity of each of the first, second and third markers on at least two target elements. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the target elements comprise genomic DNA. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the target elements comprise cDNA. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the tissue sample is from a human. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the array comprises cDNA and genomic DNA target elements. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the array comprises target elements at a density in the range of 100 to 10,000 target elements per square centimeter. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the first, second and third markers each comprise a different fluorescent label. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising processing data from the detecting step (c) in a programmed computer, storing raw and processed data in a database and displaying raw and processed data. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising addition of unlabeled blocking nucleic acid. 10. The method of claim 4 further comprising use of data derived from the method in selection of therapy for a human. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining fluorescent ratios at each target element (i) between the first and third markers and (ii) between the second and third markers. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the tissue comprises a cell line sample. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the tissue sample comprises one cell. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the tissue sample comprises a human tumor sample. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the tissue sample comprises blood cells. 16. The method of claim 2 wherein the genomic DNA comprises human genomic DNA having a complexity in a range of 20 kb to 250 kb. 17. The method of claim 3 wherein the cDNA comprises cDNA having a complexity in a range of 100 bp to 5,000 bp. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the target nucleic acid elements comprise at least one peptide nucleic acid. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the method is performed in a mesoscale device. 20. A method for simultaneous detection of gene expression and chromosomal abnormality in a tissue sample comprising: (a) providing an array of nucleic acid target elements comprising genomic DNA attached to a solid support wherein the nucleic acid target elements comprise polynucleotide sequences substantially complementary under preselected hybridization conditions to nucleic acids indicative of gene expression and indicative of chromosomal sequence of a tissue sample; (b) providing at least three labeled nucleic acid populations: (i) a mRNA or cDNA population labeled with a first fluorescent marker and derived from the tissue sample, (ii) a chromosomal DNA population labeled with a second fluorescent marker and derived from the tissue sample, and (iii) at least one reference nucleic acid population labeled with a third fluorescent marker; (c) contacting the array with the labeled nucleic acid populations under hybridization conditions; and (d) detecting presence and intensity of each of the first, second and third fluorescent markers on at least two target elements. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the array comprises at least 100 target elements on a planar surface of a substrate. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the array comprises target elements at a density in the range of 100 to 10,000 target elements per square centimeter. 23. The method of claim 20 further comprising determining fluorescent ratios at each target element (i) between the first and third markers and (ii) between the second and third markers. 24. The method of claim 20 further comprising processing data from the detecting step (c) in a programmed computer, storing raw and processed data in a database and displaying raw and processed data. 25. The method of claim 20 further comprising addition of unlabeled blocking nucleic acid. 26. The method of claim 20 further comprising use of data from the method in selection of therapy for a human. 27. The method of claim 20 wherein the chromosomal DNA population is produced by a method comprising PCR. 28. The method of claim 20 wherein the tissue sample comprises one cell. 29. The method of claim 20 wherein the tissue sample comprises a human tumor sample. 30. The method of claim 20 wherein the tissue sample comprises blood cells. 31. The method of claim 20 wherein the tissue sample comprises a human blastomere cell or a human polar body. 32. The method of claim 20 wherein the tissue sample is produced by microdissection. 33. The method of claim 20 wherein the method is performed in a mesoscale device. 34. A method for simultaneous detection of gene expression and chromosomal abnormality in a tissue sample comprising: (a) providing an array of nucleic acid target elements attached to a solid support wherein the nucleic acid target elements comprise polynucleotide sequences substantially complementary under preselected hybridization conditions to nucleic acids indicative of gene expression and indicative of chromosomal sequence of a tissue sample; (b) providing at least three labeled nucleic acid populations: (i) a mRNA or cDNA population labeled with a first fluorescent marker and derived from the tissue sample, (ii) a chromosomal DNA population labeled with a second fluorescent marker and derived from the tissue sample, and (iii) at least one reference nucleic acid population labeled with a third fluorescent marker; (c) contacting the array with the labeled nucleic acid populations under hybridization conditions; and (d) detecting presence and intensity of each of the first, second and third fluorescent markers on at least two target elements. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the target nucleic acid elements comprise oligomers in the range of 8 bp to about 100 bp. 36. The method of claim 34 wherein the array comprises at least 100 target elements. 37. The method of claim 34 wherein the array comprises target elements at a density in the range of 100 to 10,000 target elements per square centimeter. 38. The method of claim 34 further comprising determining fluorescent ratios at each target element (i) between the first and third markers and (ii) between the second and third markers. 39. The method of claim 34 further comprising processing data from the detecting step (c) in a programmed computer, storing raw and processed data in a database and displaying raw and processed data. 40. The method of claim 34 further comprising addition of unlabeled blocking nucleic acid. 41. The method of claim 34 further comprising use of data from the method in selection of a therapy for a human. 42. The method of claim 34 wherein the chromosomal DNA population is produced by a method comprising PCR. 43. The method of claim 34 wherein the tissue sample comprises one cell. 44. The method of claim 34 wherein the tissue sample comprises a human tumor sample. 45. The method of claim 34 wherein the tissue sample comprises blood cells. 46. The method of claim 34 wherein the tissue sample is produced by microdissection. 47. The method of claim 34 wherein the cDNA comprises cDNA having a complexity in a range of 100 bp to 5,000 bp. 48. The method of claim 34 wherein the target nucleic acid elements comprise at least one peptide nucleic acid. 49. The method of claim 34 wherein the method is performed in a mesoscale device. 50. The method of claim 1 wherein the target elements comprise polynucleotides in the range of 8 bp to about 100 bp. 51. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises bladder tissue. 52. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises lung tissue. 53. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises prostate tissue. 54. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises breast tissue. 55. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises esophageal tissue. 56. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises cervical tissue. 57. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises ovarian tissue. 58. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises colon tissue. 59. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises brain tissue. 60. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises stomach tissue. 61. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises skin tissue. 62. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises pancreas tissue. 63. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises a human blastomere. 64. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises a human polar body. 65. The method of claim 1 comprising use of at least two reference nucleic acid populations. 66. The method of claim 1 comprising use of at least four reference nucleic acid populations. 67. The method of claim 20 comprising use of at least two reference nucleic acid populations. 68. The method of claim 34 comprising use of at least two reference nucleic acid populations. 69. The method of claim 4 comprising use of at least two reference nucleic acid populations. 70. The method of claim 4 wherein the tissue sample comprises a cancer cell line. 71. The method of claim 20 wherein at least four separate fluorescently labeled nucleic acid populations are hybridized with the array. 72. The method of claim 20 wherein at least eight separate fluorescently labeled nucleic acid populations are hybridized with the array. 73. The method of claim 5 wherein at least four separate fluorescently labeled nucleic acid populations are hybridized with the array. 74. The method of claim 34 wherein at least four separate fluorescently labeled nucleic acid populations are hybridized with the array. 75. The method of claim 34 wherein at least eight separate fluorescently labeled nucleic acid populations are hybridized with the array. 76. The method of claim 8 which further comprises: displaying at least one chromosome ideogram with array data. 77. The method of claim 24 which further comprises: displaying at least one chromosome ideogram with array data. 78. The method of claim 40 which further comprises: displaying at least one chromosome ideogram with array data. 