A voluntary close mechanical grasping device suitable for use in robotics or as a prehensor for body-power prosthetic equipment provides an energy efficient two stage process for sizing and gripping an object and a holding assist capability for assisting a wearer in maintaining his or her grip on the object. During the first stage, the device sizes an object but does not apply a force against the object sufficient to grasp the object securely. During the second stage, the device exerts a force against the object sufficient to grasp the object securely. After the object has been grasped, the device provides a mechanical holding assist capability to help hold the object securely while the input energy supplied by the wearer is reduced.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A cable actuated prehensor for grasping an object, comprising: a carriage block displaceable along a lock rod, said carriage block coupled to a rotatable sizing digit such that displacement of said carriage block alone said lock rod causes rotation of said sizing digit, said sizing digit being connected to a main structural plate; and a rotatable cam plate having a displaceable axis of rotation, said cam plate coupled to said carriage block such that displacement of said carriage block along said lock rod displaces said axis of rotation of said cam plate, said cam plate also being coupled to a rotatable gripping digit such that rotation of said cam plate about said axis of rotation causes rotation of said gripping digit, said gripping digit being connected to said main structural plate. 2. The prehensor of claim 1, wherein said coupling between said carriage block and said sizing digit includes a lock plate slidable along said lock rod. 3. The prehensor of claim 2, wherein said lock plate is biased such that as said carriage block is displaced along said lock rod, said lock plate is also displaced along said lock rod. 4. The prehensor of claim 3, wherein said lock plate is biased by a spring. 5. The prehensor of claim 4, wherein said lock rod extends through said spring. 6. The prehensor of claim 2, wherein said lock plate is skewable about said lock rod such that when said lock plate is not skewed about said lock rod, said lock plate is slidable along said lock rod and when said lock plate is skewed about said lock rod, said lock plate is not slidable along said lock rod. 7. The prehensor of claim 6, wherein when said lock plate is not slidable along said lock rod, said carriage block is also not slidable along said lock rod. 8. The prehensor of claim 6, wherein said lock plate becomes skewed about said lock rod when said sizing digit rotates to the point that said sizing digit and said gripping digit are in contact with the object. 9. The prehensor of claim 2, wherein said lock rod extends through said lock plate. 10. The prehensor of claim 9, wherein said lock rod extends through said carriage block. 11. The prehensor of claim 2, wherein said coupling between said carriage block and said sizing digit includes a linkage rod connecting said lock plate and said sizing digit. 12. The prehensor of claim 1, including a cable coupled to said plate and a rotatable drum around which the cable is wound at least one complete revolution. 13. The prehensor of claim 12, wherein said drum is rotatable in either a clockwise direction or in a counter-clockwise direction but not both. 14. The prehensor of claim 12, wherein said drum rotates only when tension in the cable is increased. 15. The prehensor of claim 12, wherein friction between said drum and the cable assists in maintaining tension in the cable. 16. The prehensor of claim 1, including a cable connected to said rotatable plate and a holding assist device coupled to said cable and capable of applying tension to said cable. 17. The prehensor of claim 16, wherein said holding assist device includes a clutched cylinder around which said cable is wound. 18. The prehensor of claim 17, wherein said clutched cylinder rotates when tension in said cable is increased. 19. A cable actuated prehensor, comprising: a rotatable sizing digit rotatable coupled to a main structural plate and mechanically coupled to a cable, wherein said sizing digit rotates when tension in the cable is increased from below a first tension level to said first tension level; a rotatable gripping digit mechanically coupled to the cable and rotatably coupled to said main structural plate, wherein said gripping digit rotates when tension in the cable is increased from a second tension level to tension level higher than said second tension level, said second tension level being higher than said first tension level; and a rotatable drum around which the cable is wound at least one complete revolution, said drum being rotatable coupled to said main structural plate, wherein said drum is rotatable in either a clockwise direction or in a counter-clockwise direction but not both. 20. The prehensor of claim 19, wherein said drum rotates only when cable tension is increased. 21. The prehensor of claim 19, wherein friction between said drum and the cable assists in maintaining tension in the cable. 22. The prehensor of claim 19, wherein said mechanical coupling between said sizing digit and the cable includes a displaceable carriage block and a cam plate rotatably connected to said carriage block such that displacement of said carriage block also displaces said cam plate, wherein the cable is connected to said cam plate. 23. The prehensor of claim 22, wherein said gripping digit is mechanically coupled to said cam plate such that rotation of said cam plate causes rotation of said gripping digit. 24. The prehensor of claim 22, wherein said carriage block is mechanically coupled to said sizing digit such that displacement of said carriage block causes rotation of said sizing digit. 25. The prehensor of claim 22, including a lock rod along which said carriage block is displaceable. 26. The prehensor of claim 25, including a lock plate slidable along said lock rod and mechanically coupled to said sizing digit. 27. The prehensor of claim 26, wherein said lock plate is skewable about said lock rod such that when said lock plate is not skewed about said lock rod, said lock plate is slidable along said lock rod, and when said lock plate is skewed about said lock rod, said lock plate is not slidable along said lock rod. 28. The prehensor of claim 27, wherein said lock plate is not skewed about said lock rod when cable tension is less than said first cable tension level. 29. The prehensor of claim 28, wherein said lock plate is skewed about said lock rod when said cable tension is greater than said second cable tension level. 30. A prehensor, comprising: a sizing digit rotatably connected to a main structural plate; a gripping digit rotatable connected to said main structural plate; a lock rod coupled to said main structural plate; a carriage block that is slidable along said lock rod and coupled to said sizing digit such that displacement of said carriage block along said lock rod causes rotation of said sizing digit; and a rotatable cam plate having an axis of rotation and coupled to said gripping digit via a lever plate such that rotation of said cam plate causes rotation of said gripping digit, wherein said rotatable cam plate is also coupled to said carriage block such that displacement of said carriage block along said lock rod displaces said axis of rotation of said rotatable cam plate. 31. The prehensor of claim 30, including a lock plate positioned along said lock rod and adjacent said carriage block such that said carriage block is not displaceable along said lock rod while said rotatable cam plate is rotating about said axis of rotation of said rotatable cam plate. 32. The prehensor of claim 30, wherein said rotatable cam plate does not rotate about said axis of rotation while said carriage block is being displaced along said lock rod. 