The present invention provide methods and an apparatus for performing amplification and other enzymatic reactions on nucleic acid molecules that have been printed onto a solid substrate, such as a silicon wafer or glass slide.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of amplifying nucleic acid molecules from a template in a chamber, comprising: (a) mixing single-stranded nucleic acid templates on a solid substrate with a solution comprising an oligonucleotide primer that hybridizes to the templates and a DNA polymerase, wherein the mixing occurs in discrete areas on the substrate, and wherein the solution remains in the discrete areas; (b) synthesizing a complementary strand to the template to form a duplex; (c) denaturing the duplex; and (d) synthesizing complementary strands to the template, therefrom amplifying nucleic acid molecules; wherein the nucleic acid solution is in contact with the atmosphere in the chamber, and dew point is maintained during said mixing, synthesizing, and denaturing, thereby preventing evaporation of the solution. 2. A method of amplifying nucleic acid molecules from a template in a chamber, comprising: (a) mixing single-stranded nucleic acid templates on a solid substrate with a solution comprising a first oligonucleotide primer that hybridizes to the templates, a second oligonucleotide primer that hybridizes to a complementary strand of the template, and a DNA polymerase, wherein the mixing occurs in discrete areas on the substrate, and wherein the solution remains in the discrete areas; (b) synthesizing a complementary strand to the template to form a duplex; (c) denaturing the duplex; and (d) synthesizing complementary strands to the template and the complementary strand of the template, therefrom amplifying nucleic acid molecules; wherein the solution is in contact with the atmosphere in the chamber, and dew point is maintained during said mixing, synthesizing, and denaturing, thereby preventing evaporation of the solution. 3. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein steps (c) and (d) are performed multiple times. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein steps (c) and (d) are performed from about 10 to about 25 times. 5. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the solution contains a compound that confers viscosity. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the compound is glycerol or a sugar. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the compound is glycerol. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the compound is a sugar. 9. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the DNA polymerase is a thermostable polymerase. 10. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein synthesis and denaturation are performed at different temperatures. 11. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, further comprising detecting the duplexes. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the oligonucleotide primers are labeled. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the label is a fluorescent molecule. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the label is a tag that is detectable by non-fluorescent spectrometry or potentiometry. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the detection of the tag is by mass spectrometry, infrared spectrometry, ultraviolet spectrometry, or poteniostatic amperometry. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the sequence and the tag of the first or second or both oligonucleotide primers is different for each template. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the amplified nucleic acids are pooled prior to detection. 18. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the array is on a solid substrate comprising a silicon wafer or borosilicate slide. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the templates are covalently attached to the solid substrate. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the attachment is through a polyethylene imine linkage. 21. The method of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide primer pairs each have a different sequence. 22. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the template is uniformly applied to the entire array prior to mixing. 23. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein the template is applied individually to each discrete area on the substrate. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the applying is performed using spring probes. 25. The method of either of claims 1 or 2, wherein an apparatus is used to control the dew point. 26. A method of synthesizing a nucleic acid molecule from a template, comprising: (a) mixing single-stranded nucleic acid templates on a solid substrate with a solution comprising an oligonucleotide primer that hybridizes to the templates and a DNA polymerase, wherein the mixing occurs in a discrete area of an array, and wherein the solution remains in discrete areas; and (b) synthesizing a complementary strand to the template to form a duplex, wherein mixing and synthesis are performed at dew point, wherein dew point is achieved by an apparatus, comprising: a container capable of being pressurized; a heating device; a means for generating pressure; and a means for generating saturated steam; wherein the heating device, pressure generating means, and steam genearting means are controllable. 27. A method of detecting a single base alteration in a nucleic acid molecule, comprising: (a) mixing single-stranded nucleic acid molecules on a solid substrate with a solution comprising a first and a second oligonucleotides that hybridize to the nucleic acid molecules and a DNA ligase, wherein the mixing occurs in a discrete area of an array, and wherein the solution remains in the discrete areas; and (b) detecting a ligation product; wherein the first and second oligonucleotides will not ligate when there is a single base alteration at the junction base on the nucleic acid molecule, p1 mixing is performed at dew point, wherein dew point is achieved by an apparatus, comprising: a container capable of being pressurized; a heating device; a means for generating pressure; and a means for generating saturated steam; wherein the heating device, pressure generating means, and steam generating means are controllable. 28. A method of performing single nucleotide extension assay, comprising: (a) mixing oligonucleotides on a solid substrate with a solution comprising single-stranded nucleic acid molecules that hybridize to the oligonucleotides, a single nucleotide, and a DNA polymerase, wherein the mixing occurs in discrete areas of the substrate, and wherein the solution remains in discrete areas; and (b) detecting an extension product of the oligonucleotide; wherein the oligonucleotide will be extended only when the single nucleotide is complementary to the nucleotide adjacent to the hybridized oligonucleotide, wherein mixing is performed at dew point, wherein dew point is achieved by an apparatus, comprising: a container capable of being pressurized; a heating device; a means for generating pressure; and a means for generating saturated steam; wherein the heating device, pressure generating means, and steam generating means are controllable. 29. The method of claim 26 wherein step (b) is performed multiple times. 30. The method of claim 26 wherein the solution contains a compound that increases the viscosity of the solution. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the compound is glycerol or a sugar. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein the array is located on a substantially flat surface of a substrate. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the substrate is glass. 34. The method of claim 27 wherein the solution contains a compound that increases the viscosity of the solution. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the compound is glycerol or a sugar. 36. The method of claim 27 wherein the nucleic acid molecules form an array on the substrate, and the array is located on a substantially flat surface of the substrate. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the substrate is glass. 38. The method of claim 28 wherein the solution contains a compound that increases the viscosity of the solution. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein the compound is glycerol or a sugar. 40. The method of claim 28 wherein the oligonucleotides form an array on the substrate, and the array is located on a substantially flat surface of the substrate. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein the substrate is glass. 