A container for use in a processing chamber to lessen the amount of contaminant particles found within the chamber after processing. The container fits closely within the chamber and includes ports for a gas conduit and a vacuum conduit. The container may be locked to the chamber through a locking mechanism and a recess in the container. The container may be guided into the chamber with a plurality of chamfers. The container may be used in inductively coupled plasma chambers, electron cyclotron resonance chambers, and chambers capable of receiving microwaves.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A system for processing a semiconductor work piece, said system comprising: an enclosed processing chamber having at least one wall and a first access door to an interior space, a vacuum port through said wall and a gas port through said wall; and a container for receiving the work piece and having a configuration permitting it to be inserted into and removed from said chamber, said container comprising at least one wall and a second access door to an interior space, at least one vacuum port through said wall and a gas port through said wall, said chamber gas port being aligned with said container gas port when said container is positioned within said processing chamber. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said container is made of materials allowing said liner to have an effective life at least as long as the processing. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said container is generally cylindrical. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said chamber is adapted to conduct inductively coupled plasma reactions, said chamber further comprising an electrode structure for producing said plasma reactions. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein said electrode structure comprises an inductive coil and a source of radio frequency energy. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the work piece is a reticule. 7. The system of claim 4, wherein the work piece is a semiconductor wafer. 8. The container of claim 4, wherein the work piece is an integrated circuit package. 9. The container of claim 4, wherein the work piece is a lead frame. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said chamber further comprises a locking mechanism for locking said container within said interior space of said chamber. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said locking mechanism comprises an opening in said chamber, a recess in said container, and a locking pin extendable through said opening and into said recess. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said locking pin is spring biased. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein said chamber comprises a guiding mechanism for guiding said container into and out of said chamber. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said guiding mechanism comprises a plurality of chamfers on an interior surface of said chamber. 15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a seal located adjacent said chamber and container gas ports. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein said container comprises one vacuum port, further comprising a seal located adjacent said chamber and container vacuum ports. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein said container comprises a plurality of pores for equalizing the pressure between said container and the space between said container and said chamber. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said pores are located on said container wall. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein said chamber and said container are generally dome shaped. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein said chamber is adapted to provide electron cyclotron resonance reactions. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein said chamber is adapted to receive microwaves and further comprising a microwave source for providing microwaves to said chamber. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein said microwave source comprises a magnetron. 23. The system of claim 19, wherein said container is formed of a dielectric material. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein said chamber and said container are generally cylindrical and each has a dome portion. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein said chamber is adapted to provide inductively coupled plasma reactions, said chamber further comprising an electrode structure for producing said plasma reactions. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein said electrode structure comprises an inductive coil and a radio frequency supply. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the container is made of one or more materials within the group composed of, conductive materials, dielectric materials, insulative materials, and partly conductive materials. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein said container is made of conductive materials. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein said container is made of dielectric materials. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the container is made of an insulative material. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the container is made of a partly conductive material. 32. A system for plasma processing a semiconductor work piece, said system comprising: an enclosed processing chamber having at least one wall and an access door to an interior space of said chamber, a vacuum port through said chamber wall, a gas port through said chamber wall, and a first portion of a locking mechanism for locking a container to said chamber; a container for receiving the work piece and having a configuration permitting it to be inserted into and removed from the interior space of said chamber, said container comprising at least one container wall and an access door to an interior space of said container, at least one vacuum port through said container wall, a gas port through said container wall, and a second portion of said locking mechanism, said chamber gas port being aligned with said container gas port when said container is positioned with the interior space of said chamber; a vacuum conduit positioned in and sealed to said chamber vacuum port and in fluid communication with said container vacuum port when said chamber is positioned with the interior space of said chamber; and a gas conduit coupled to at least one of said gas ports. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the container is made of materials allowing the container to have an effective life longer than a single plasma processing. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein said container is made of materials allowing said container to have an effective life at least as long as a processing operation on a work piece. 35. The system of claim 32, further comprising a seal located adjacent said chamber and container gas ports. 36. The system of claim 32, wherein said container comprises one vacuum port, further comprising a seal located adjacent said chamber and container vacuum ports. 37. The system of claim 32, wherein said chamber and said container are generally cylindrical. 38. The system of claim 32, wherein said chamber is adapted to provide inductively coupled plasma reactions, said chamber further comprising an electrode structure for producing said coupled plasma reactions. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein said electrode structure comprises an inductive coil and a source of radio frequency energy. 40. The system of claim 32, wherein said chamber and said container are generally cylindrical and each has a dome portion. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein said chamber is adapted to provide inductively coupled plasma reactions, said chamber further comprising an electrode structure for producing said coupled plasma reactions. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein said electrode structure comprises an inductive coil and a source of radio frequency energy. 43. The system of claim 32, wherein said chamber and said container are generally dome shaped. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein said chamber is adapted to provide electron cyclotron resonance reactions. 45. The system of claim 43, wherein said chamber is adapted to receive microwaves and further comprising a microwave source for providing microwaves to the interior space of said container positioned within the interior space of said chamber. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein said microwave source comprises a magnetron. 47. A method of processing a work piece, said method comprising the steps of: locating the workpiece in a container, said container having at least one wall and a first access door to an interior space, at least one vacuum port through said wall and a gas port through said wall; moving said container into and completely enclosing it within a processing chamber, said chamber having at least one wall and a second access door to an interior space, a vacuum port through said wall and a gas port positioned through said wall, wherein said container is removable from said chamber; aligning said chamber gas port with said container gas port; sealing said chamber gas port and said container gas port; and processing the work piece within the container. 48. The method of claim 47, further comprising: aligning said chamber vacuum port with said container vacuum port; and sealing said chamber vacuum port and said container vacuum port. 49. The method of claim 47, wherein the container is made of materials allowing the container to have an effective life longer than a single plasma processing. 50. The method of claim 47, wherein said container is made of materials allowing said container to have an effective life at least as long as the processing. 51. The method of claim 47, further comprising producing inductively coupled plasma reactions in said chamber. 52. The method of claim 47, further comprising the step of locking said container at a predetermined position within said chamber. 53. The method of claim 47, further comprising guiding said container into said processing chamber using a guiding mechanism provided at least within said chamber. 54. The method of claim 47, further comprising injecting a gas into said container and heating said gas to create plasma products. 55. The method of claim 54, further comprising exerting a vacuum on said container during said processing. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein said vacuum is exerted generally uniformly within said container, said container having a plurality of vacuum ports. 57. The method of claim 47, further comprising equalizing the pressure within said container with the pressure between said container and said chamber. 58. The method of claim 47, further comprising conducting electron cyclotron resonance reactions in said container. 59. The method of claim 47, further comprising receiving microwaves in said chamber. 