A self-closing cap for the fuel filler neck of a vehicle is provided which is particularly adapted for use with an automatic gas filling machine. The cap comprises a closure ring having an annular body and screw threads or bayonet lugs for detachably mounting the periphery of the annular body around the open end of the filler neck, and a closure flap assembly formed from a circular member with a nozzle receiving opening, a closure flap spring biased over the opening, and a pivotal mounting connecting the flap over the opening. The closure flap assembly includes a locking ratchet mechanism for securing the circular member over the closure ring in a selected angular position such that the pivotal mounting is substantially 180.degree. opposite from the pivotal connection of the restrictive flap within a filler neck of a vehicle to allow a fuel nozzle from an automatic gas filling machine to be smoothly inserted into and withdrawn from the self-closing cap. The cap has a cover that snap-fits over the closure flap assembly. The top wall of the cover serves as an inclined guide face for guiding the nozzle of an automatic gas filling machine into the opening of the closure flap assembly. An overpressure valve assembly is incorporated into the circular member for releasing vapor and gases from the vehicle fuel tank when the pressure in the tank approaches a tank-rupturing level.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A self-closing cap for a filler neck of a container wherein said neck includes a restrictive flap pivotally connected thereto, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of said filler neck, and a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and means for affixing said circular member to said annular body such that said pivotal mounting means is substantially opposite to a pivotal connection between said restrictive flap and said neck, and an overpressure valve assembly mounted onto said closure ring for releasing gases and vapors from said container when the pressure in the container reaches a predetermined limit. 2. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 1, wherein said container is the fuel tank of an automotive vehicle. 3. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 2, further including a cover means detachably mountable over said closure flap assembly. 4. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 3, wherein said cover means includes a port for receiving a nozzle and a guide face for guiding said nozzle into said port. 5. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 4, wherein said guide face is inclined with respect to said circular member of said closure flap assembly to facilitate the guiding of said nozzle into said port. 6. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 5, wherein said filler neck is inclined at an oblique angle with respect to an adjacent wall of said vehicle, and said inclination of said guide face orients said face at an angle that facilitates the insertion of a fuel nozzle from an automatic filling machine. 7. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 4, wherein said cover means includes means for guiding the nozzle of an automatic fuel dispensing machine. 8. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 7, wherein said guide means is a permanent magnet. 9. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 1, wherein said closure flap is spring biased over said opening in said circular member. 10. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 1, wherein said means for affixing said circular member to said annular body includes a ratchet lock mechanism. 11. An improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle including a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of said filler neck, and a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, and means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, wherein the improvement comprises: means for affixing said circular member of said closure flap assembly to said annular body such that the angular orientation of said pivotal mounting means is adjustable relative to said annular body; and an overpressure valve assembly mounted onto said circular member for releasing gases and vapors from said container when the pressure in the container reaches a predetermined limit. 12. The improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle defined in claim 11, wherein said overpressure valve assembly includes at least one gas-conducting aperture, a valve element disposed over a valve seat circumscribing said aperture, and a means for biasing said valve element against said valve seat in sealing engagement. 13. The improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle as defined in claim 12, wherein an amount of biasing force that said biasing means applies to a top side of said valve element is balanced against an amount of pneumatic pressure applied to a bottom side of said valve element by gases and vapors from said container such that said pneumatic pressure overcomes said biasing force when the pressure in the container reaches said predetermined limit. 14. The improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle as defined in claim 13, wherein said biasing means includes a spring loaded yoke member having a top plate that overlies said valve element. 15. The improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle as defined in claim 14, wherein said circular member includes a bearing block that forms part of said means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and said gas conducting aperture is present in a top wall of said bearing block. 16. The improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle as defined in claim 12, wherein said predetermined limit of said container pressure is between about 10 and 12 kpa. 17. The improved self-closing cap for a filler neck of a fuel tank of an automotive vehicle as defined in claim 11, wherein said means for affixing said circular member to said annular body includes a ratchet lock mechanism. 18. A self-closing cap adapted for use on a filler neck of a fuel tank of a vehicle, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of a filler neck; a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and a mounting for rotatably connecting said circular member to said annular body such that the angular position of said pivotal mounting means is adjustable relative to said annular body of said closure ring; and a cover disposed over said closure flap assembly. 19. The self-closing cap defined in claim 18, wherein said mounting for rotatably connecting said circular member to said annular body includes a ratchet lock mechanism. 20. The self-closing cap defined in claim 19, wherein said ratchet lock mechanism allows said circular member to be angularly adjustable relative to said closure ring only in a clockwise direction. 21. The self-closing cap defined in claim 18, wherein said cover includes means for snap-fitting said cover over said closure flap assembly. 22. The self-closing cap defined in claim 18, wherein said means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of said filler neck includes bayonet lugs. 23. The self-closing cap defined in claim 18, wherein said means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of said filler neck includes screw threads. 24. The self-closing cap defined in claim 18, wherein said cover includes a port for receiving a nozzle and a guide face for guiding said nozzle into said port. 25. A self-closing cap adapted for use on a filler neck of a fuel tank of a vehicle, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of a filler neck; a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and a mounting including a ratchet mechanism for rotatably connecting said circular member to said annular body such that the angular position of said pivotal mounting means is adjustable relative to said annular body of said closure ring; and a cover detachably mountable over said closure flap assembly and including a port for receiving a nozzle and a guide face for guiding said nozzle into said port. 26. A self-closing cap adapted for use on a filler neck of a fuel tank of a vehicle, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of a filler neck; a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and a rotatable mounting including a ratchet lock mechanism for rotatably and sealingly connecting said circular member to said annular body such that the angular position of said pivotal mounting means is adjustable relative to said annular body of said closure ring; and a cover disposed over said closure flap assembly. 27. The self-closing cap defined in claim 26, wherein said rotatable mounting includes an O-ring disposed between said circular member and annular body for providing a vapor tight seal therebetween. 28. A self-closing cap adapted for use on a filler neck of a fuel tank of a vehicle, comprising: a closure ring having an annular body and means for detachably mounting the periphery of said annular body around a peripheral edge of a filler neck; a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and a mounting including a ratchet mechanism and O-ring for rotatably and sealingly connecting said circular member to said annular body such that the angular position of said pivotal mounting means is adjustable relative to said annular body of said closure ring; and a cover detachably mountable over said closure flap assembly and including a port for receiving a nozzle. 29. The self-closing cap as defined in claim 28, wherein said cap is adapted for use on a filler neck having a restrictive flap pivotally connected on one side within said filler neck, and said restrictive flap and said closure flap are spring biased over said neck inner diameter and opening, respectively, and wherein mounting allows the pivotal connection and said pivotal mounting means to be positioned opposite to one another to facilitate the insertion and withdrawal of a fuel dispensing nozzle from an automatic filling machine through said cap and filler neck. 30. A method for mounting a self-closing cap onto a filler neck of a vehicle wherein said cap includes a closure ring having an annular body, and a closure flap assembly including a circular member having an opening for receiving a nozzle, a closure flap, means for pivotally mounting said closure flap over said opening, and a mounting including a ratchet lock mechanism for rotatably connecting said circular member to said annular body, comprising the steps of: securing said annular body of said closure ring around an end of said filler neck; and rotating said circular member of said closure flap assembly via said ratchet lock mechanism to a desired angular orientation with respect to said closure ring via said mounting means. 31. The method defined in claim 30, wherein said neck includes a restrictive flap, and a pivotal connection for pivoting said flap over an inner diameter of the neck, and wherein said circular member of said closure flap assembly is angularly positioned such that said pivotal mounting means is disposed about 180.degree. from said pivotal connection in said filler neck. 32. The method as defined in claim 30, wherein said cap includes a cover mountable over said closure flap assembly including a port for receiving a nozzle, and a guide face for guiding said nozzle into said port, said guide face being inclined at an angle relative to said circular member of said closure flap assembly when said cover means is mounted over said closure flap assembly, further including the step of mounting said cover means onto said closure flap assembly so that said guide face is inclined at an angle that facilitates the receipt of a fuel dispensing nozzle from an automotive fuel dispensing machine. 