A method for removing and transporting ophthalmic lens fabricating mold sections from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time, controlled by a central processor, is disclosed. The method includes starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position using a compound movement; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber for continued transport of mold containing pallets to a treatment or processing facility for producing and/or packaging of the contact lenses. The method also includes raising a nest to receive the mold sections at the intermediate position; and lowering the nest, after transfer thereon of the molded sections from the robotic arm, for transferring the molded sections to the cam-controlled arm. In a racetrack mode, the pallets continue moving into the inert chamber, while the molded sections are discarded. In a sample mode, a sample bin is moved to the discard location to collect a sample of the molded sections.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A central processor controlled method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lens from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time comprising the steps of: starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position; actuating a cam-controlled arm to move the cam-controlled arm to a predetermined position to pick the molded sections to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm actuating step includes the steps of: accelerating the robotic arm along a curvilinear path from a waiting position to an opening in the molding device in a synchronism with the opening of the molding device, in accordance with acceleration parameters stored in a memory of a central processor; and decelerating the robotic arm after an acceleration time stored in the memory, when the robotic arm is approximately in the opening of the molding device, to provide a damping effect for allowing transfer of the mold sections from the molding machine to the robotic arm. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising raising a nest to receive the mold sections at the intermediate position. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the steps of: lowering the nest after transfer thereon of the molded sections from the robotic arm; and transferring the molded sections from the lowered nest to the cam-controlled arm. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising actuating cylinders to rotate and re-space the mold sections contained on the nest. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cam-controlled arm actuating step includes the steps of: moving the cam-controlled arm to the intermediate position; and lowering the cam-controlled arm to pick the molded sections from a nest that receives the mold sections from the robotic arm. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the cam-controlled arm actuating step further includes the steps of: raising the cam-controlled arm up to the intermediate position after picking the molded sections from the nest; moving the cam-controlled arm to the pallet; lowering the cam-controlled arm while raising the pallet from the cam-arm pre-part release location to a cam-arm part release location; and transferring the molded sections from the cam-controlled arm to the pallet. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the cam-controlled arm actuating step includes the steps of: moving the cam-controlled arm to a first position aligned with the intermediate position at a center height of the cam-controlled arm which is lower than intermediate position; and raising the cam-controlled arm to the intermediate position from first position to pick the molded sections from the robotic arm. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the cam-controlled arm actuating step further includes the steps of: moving the cam-controlled arm down from the intermediate position to the first position after picking the molded sections; relocating the cam-controlled arm along the center height to a second position aligned with the cam-arm pre-part release location; lowering the cam-controlled arm to a cam-arm part release location; raising a pallet from the cam-arm pre-part release location to the cam-arm part release location; and transferring the molded sections onto the pallet. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the relocating step further comprises rotating the cam-controlled arm by approximately 180.degree. around an axis longitudinal thereto. 11. The method of claim 1, prior to the robotic arm actuating step, further comprising initializing the robotic arm for movement to a waiting position ready for removing the molded sections from the molding device, said waiting position being in a collision free zone. 12. The method of claim 1, prior to the cam-controlled arm actuating step, further comprising initializing the cam-controlled arm for movement to a home position which is in a collision free zone. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising identifying molded articles as unacceptable when the pallet enters the inert chamber in a time that exceeds the predetermined time. 14. The method of claim 1, prior to the pallet releasing step, further comprising actuating a pallet stop device to stop the pallet at the cam-arm pre-part release location. 15. A central processor controlled method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lens from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time comprising the steps of: starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber; raising the pallet from the cam-arm pre-part release location to a cam-arm part release location; transferring the molded sections from the cam-controlled arm to the pallet; and lowering the pallet containing the molded section from the cam-arm part release location to the cam-arm pre-part release location. 16. A central processor controlled method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lens from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time comprising the steps of: starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber; actuating a lift to raise the pallet held at the cam-arm pre-part release location in order for the pallet to receive the molded articles from the cam-controlled arm; and actuating a pallet locate device to hold the raised pallet at a cam-arm part release location. 17. A central processor controlled method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lens from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time comprising the steps of: starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; and releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber; holding a plurality of pallets in a que upstream from the pallet located at the cam-arm pre-part release location; and after the pallet releasing step, releasing said plurality of pallets one at a time. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of pallets releasing step includes actuating a cylinder that simultaneously releases a first one of said plurality of pallets in the que and holds a second of said plurality of pallets. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of pallets releasing step includes actuating a first cylinder which holds a first one of said plurality of pallets located in the que; and actuating a second cylinder which releases a second one of said plurality of pallets located downstream from said first one pallet. 20. A central processor controlled method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lens from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time comprising the steps of: starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber; and actuating the robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to a discard bin for discarding the molding device, while empty pallets move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber in a racetrack mode. 21. A central processor controlled method for removing and transporting mold sections for fabricating ophthalmic lens from a molding device to an inert chamber in a predetermined time comprising the steps of: starting a timer upon opening the molding device and exposing the mold sections to continuously measure exposure time of the mold sections; actuating a robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to an intermediate position; actuating a cam-controlled arm to transport the mold sections from the intermediate position to a pallet held on a conveyor belt at a cam-arm pre-part release location; releasing the pallet to move on the conveyor belt to the inert chamber; and actuating the robotic arm to transport the mold sections from the molding device to a sample pallet located at a discard location. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising moving the sample pallet from a standby position to the discard location for receiving the mold sections from the robotic arm. 