A method for preserving the temperature integrity of cryogenically preserved biological samples is presented, involving initiating a countdown sequence upon removal of a sample from a controlled portable or bulk storage environment, requiring operator action to terminate the countdown on restoration of the sample to a controlled environment. Audible and visual warnings are provided to an operator prior to attainment of a critical temperature, beyond which damage may accrue to the sample. A portable device facilitating execution of the method is described.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A quality control method for use in the transfer or conveyance of temperature sensitive material, comprising: providing a temperature-controlled storage container; providing at least one sub-container disposed in said storage container; removing said sub-container from said storage container; and upon the removing of said sub-container from said storage container, automatically tracking changes in temperature of said sub-container. 2. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the tracking of changes in temperature of said sub-container includes operating a computer or microprocessor to automatically estimate said changes in temperature pursuant to a predetermined rule or algorithm. 3. The method defined in claim 2 wherein the tracking of changes in temperature of said sub-container includes feeding to said computer or microprocessor encoded information including an ambient temperature and a temperature of said sub-container at the time of removal of said sub-container from said storage container, the operating of said computer or microprocessor including: measuring a time interval commencing with removal of said sub-container from said storage container; and determining an estimated temperature of said sub-container in accordance with the measured time interval and a difference between said ambient temperature and the temperature of said sub-container at the time of commencement of said time interval. 4. The method defined in claim 3 wherein said encoded information further includes a size or volume of said sub-container, the determining of said estimated temperature including taking said size or volume into account. 5. The method defined in claim 4 wherein the feeding of said encoded information to said computer or microprocessor includes manually entering said size or volume via an input device connected to said computer or microprocessor. 6. The method defined in claim 3 wherein the feeding of said encoded information to said computer or microprocessor includes automatically transmitting a temperature-encoding signal from a temperature sensor to said computer or microprocessor. 7. The method defined in claim 3 wherein said encoded information further includes a volume of a specimen stored in said sub-container, the determining of said estimated temperature including taking said volume into account. 8. The method defined in claim 2 wherein said computer or microprocessor is mounted to said storage container. 9. The method defined in claim 2 wherein said rule or algorithm is empirically derived. 10. The method defined in claim 1, further comprising: comparing a temperature of the removed sub-container with a predetermined threshold level; and returning said sub-container to said storage container upon determining that the temperature of said sub-container has attained said threshold level. 11. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said storage container is a first storage container, further comprising placing the removed sub-container in a second storage container, the tracking of changes in temperature of said sub-container being executed during a transfer of said sub-container from said first storage container to said second storage container. 12. The method defined in claim 1, further comprising generating a signal upon determining that the temperature of said sub-container has attained a threshold level. 13. The method defined in claim 1 wherein the removing of said sub-container from said storage container includes operating a robot assembly to automatically entrain said sub-container. 14. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said storage container is portable and thermally insulated, further comprising conveying said storage container to a predetermined location, the removing of said sub-container being performed while said storage container is disposed at said predetermined location. 15. The method defined in claim 1 wherein said storage container is provided with a display and a temperature sensor, further comprising operating said display to indicate a temperature detected by said sensor. 16. The method defined in claim 1, further comprising automatically recording a history of the tracked temperature of said sub-container. 17. An apparatus for use in the transfer or conveyance of temperature sensitive material, comprising: a portable thermally insulated storage container; a temperature sensor attached to said storage container for measuring a temperature of contents of said storage container; and a microprocessor attached to said storage container, said microprocessor being operatively connected to said sensor for receiving temperature readings therefrom, said microprocessor including temperature determination means for executing a temperature estimation process upon a removal of a sub-container from said container; and a trigger operatively coupled to said microprocessor for initiating said temperature estimation process upon a removal of a sub-container from said storage container. 18. The apparatus defined in claim 17, further comprising means operatively coupled to said microprocessor for feeding to said microprocessor an encoded ambient temperature, said temperature determination means including a timer measuring a time interval commencing with removal of said sub-container from said storage container, said temperature determination means further including programmed circuits for estimating a temperature of said sub-container in accordance with the measured time interval and a difference between said ambient temperature and a temperature from said temperature sensor. 19. The apparatus defined in claim 18 wherein said temperature determination means further includes programmed circuits for estimating the temperature of said sub-container in part based on a size or volume of said sub-container. 20. The apparatus defined in claim 17 wherein said microprocessor includes means for comparing a temperature of a removed sub-container with a predetermined threshold level and for generating a signal to effectuate a return of said sub-container to said storage container upon a determination that the temperature of said sub-container has attained said threshold level. 21. The apparatus defined in claim 17 wherein said microprocessor includes means for automatically recording a history of the estimated temperature of said sub-container. 22. The apparatus defined in claim 17, further comprising a display attached to said storage container, said display being operatively connected to said sensor for indicating a temperature detected by said sensor. 