A method of verifying sample volume quantifies the fluid volume aspirated and verifies sample uniformity by detecting the presence of foam or clots in the sample. After aspiration, a pressure sensor is used to measure the vacuum needed to hold up the column of fluid in the probe tip. By knowing the geometry of the probe tip, the vacuum can be converted to a sample weight and volume, based on sample densities. Non-ideal conditions, such as foam on the surface of the fluid or a clot in the fluid, result in a sample volume much lighter, in the case of foam, or much greater, in the case of a clot, than anticipated. The method also determines the elapsed time of the aspiration. Foamy samples result in aspiration times shorter than normal. Clotted samples result in aspiration times longer than normal. Additionally, a determination can be made as to whether an error condition occurred. The error condition could be the occurrence of the sample fluid container becoming substantially empty of sample fluid during aspiration or the sample probe no longer being in contact with the fluid due to the probe not following a declining fluid level as the fluid is aspirated.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for verifying an aspirated volume of fluid, comprising: placing a sample probe within a container of a sample fluid, the sample probe having a predetermined geometry and the sample fluid having a predetermined assumed density; drawing a vacuum within the sample probe to cause fluid to be drawn into the sample probe to aspirate the fluid; measuring the pressure within the sample probe during aspiration of the fluid to obtain a pressure profile; and determining the presence of a second rise in vacuum of the pressure profile by taking a second derivative of the pressure profile to detect a rate of change of vacuum of at least a predetermined value for a predetermined period of time, wherein said second rise in vacuum is indicative of an error condition. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said error condition comprises said container of sample fluid being substantially empty of said sample fluid during aspiration. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said error condition comprises the sample probe no longer being in contact with the fluid due to the probe not following a declining fluid level as the fluid is aspirated. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing an indication when the presence of a second rise in vacuum of the pressure profile is determined. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of taking a second derivative of the pressure profile provides a non-zero result. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of providing an indication further comprises providing a audible indication. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of providing an indication further comprises providing a visual indication. 8. A method for verifying an aspirated volume of fluid, comprising: placing a sample probe within a container of a sample fluid, the sample probe having a predetermined geometry and the sample fluid having a predetermined assumed density; drawing a vacuum within the sample probe to cause fluid to be drawn into the sample probe to aspirate the fluid; measuring the pressure within the sample probe during aspiration of the fluid to obtain a pressure profile; determining the presence of a second rise in vacuum of the pressure profile by taking a second derivative of the pressure profile and obtaining a non-zero result, wherein said non-zero result is indicative of an error condition; and providing an indication when the non-zero result is obtained. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said error condition comprises said container of sample fluid being substantially empty of said sample fluid during aspiration. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said error condition comprises the sample probe no longer being in contact with the fluid due to the probe not following a declining fluid level as the fluid is aspirated. 11. A method for verifying an aspirated volume of fluid, comprising: placing a sample probe within a container of a sample fluid, the sample probe having a predetermined geometry and the sample fluid having a predetermined assumed density; drawing a vacuum within the sample probe to cause fluid to be drawn into the sample probe to aspirate the fluid; measuring the pressure within the sample probe during aspiration of the fluid to obtain a pressure profile; determining a time of an initial rise in vacuum of the pressure profile by detecting a rate of change of vacuum of at least a predetermined value for a predetermined period of time; determining the presence of a second rise in vacuum of the pressure profile by detecting a rate of change of vacuum of at least a predetermined value for a predetermined period of time by taking a second derivative of the pressure profile and obtaining a non-zero result, and wherein said non-zero result is indicative of an error condition; and providing an indication when the presence of a second rise in vacuum of the pressure profile is determined. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said error condition comprises said container of sample fluid being substantially empty of said sample fluid during aspiration. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said error condition comprises the sample probe no longer being in contact with the fluid due to the probe not following a declining fluid level as the fluid is aspirated. 