A method for using a special class of low-harmonic Bezier curves to plan and generate trajectory patterns for computer-controlled machinery in which desired motion information is input into a first processor. A low-harmonic trajectory is then generated from the desired motion information according to the low-harmonic Bezier curves and output into a second processor where points along the low-harmonic trajectory are computed. Each point on the trajectory is then output, amplified, and input into an actuator for performing a desired motion, but which results in an actual motion. The actual motion is then compared to the desired motion in a comparing means which computes an error. A feedback control signal is then generated to correct the error. Lastly, the method is repeated for all points on the trajectory until the trajectory is complete or the operation is terminated. Another aspect of the present invention is an apparatus for carrying out the method of the present invention.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for generating a low-harmonic trajectory for computer controlled machinery, the method comprising the steps of: (a) inputting desired motion information into a first processor; (b) generating a low-harmonic trajectory from the desired motion information according to the following equation, where b.sub.i are Bezier control points and B.sub.i.sup.2n are Bernstein harmonic basis functions of order n: ##EQU11## (c) outputting the generated low-harmonic trajectory from the first processor to input a second processor; (d) computing points along the low-harmonic trajectory; (e) converting the points into an electrical representation having a current and/or a voltage; (f) outputting a first electrical signal corresponding to a point on the trajectory to input a power amplifier; (g) amplifying the first electrical signal resulting in a second electrical signal, for actuating an actuator according to the inputted second electrical signal to perform a desired motion resulting in an actual motion; (h) comparing the actual motion to the desired motion in a comparing means to compute an error; (i) generating a feedback control signal to correct the error; and (j) repeating steps (d) through (i) for all points on the trajectory until the trajectory is complete or the operation is terminated. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (j) comprises the sub-steps of: (i) sensing the actual motion performed by the actuator with a sensor to determine if the actual motion equals the desired motion within a predetermined tolerance; (ii) converting the sensed actual motion to an electrical signal representation; (iii) outputting the electrical signal from the sensor to input a control means; and (iv) generating a control signal for correcting the error sensed. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired motion information are one of beginning and end positions, velocities, accelerations, their time derivatives, and any combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated by a half-angle representation. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a full-angle representation. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a rational Bezier form. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a harmonic deCasteljau algorithm. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a low-harmonic rational Bezier curve which approximates the path and the time history of motion along the path. 9. The method according to claims 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8, wherein the desired motion information includes only the end and beginning point position, velocity, acceleration, their time derivatives, and/or any combination thereof. 10. The method according to claims 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8, wherein the path is known and a low-harmonic trajectory is computed to approximate a desired path of motion and the time history of motion along that path. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the path is divided into segments forming segment junctions at the points of division, wherein each segment is approximated by a low-harmonic trajectory with appropriate splicing at the segment junctions to provide path continuity. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein the output from the first processor is in the form of an analog signal. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the sensor output is in the form of analog signal and wherein the method further comprises the step of converting the sensor output signal from an analog signal to a digital signal before inputting into the comparing means. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the sensor output is in the form of a digital signal. 15. The method of claim 2, wherein the output from the first processor is in the form of a digital signal and wherein the method further comprises the step of converting the digital signal into an analog signal before inputting the actuator. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the sensor output is in the form of a digital signal. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the sensor output is in the form of an analog signal, and wherein the method further comprises the step of converting the sensor output from an analog signal into a digital signal before inputting into the comparing means. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired trajectory is one of a position, velocity, acceleration, their time derivatives, and any combination thereof. 19. An apparatus for generating a low-harmonic trajectory for a computer controlled machine, the computer controlled machine having at least one axis of motion, the apparatus comprising: a first processor having an input device for generating and outputting a low-harmonic trajectory from inputted desired motion information according to the following equation where b.sub.i are Bezier control points and B.sub.i .sup.2n are Bernstein harmonic basis functions of order n; ##EQU12## a second processor for receiving the outputted low-harmonic trajectory, computing points along the low-harmonic trajectory, and converting the points into an electrical signal having a current and/or voltage; a power amplifier for receiving the electrical signal from the second processor and for amplifying the electrical signal; actuating means for controlling the motion along each axis, whereby the received amplified signal from the power amplifier identifies the performance of a desired motion, the performance of the desired motion resulting in an actual motion; sensing means for sensing the actual motion performed by the actuating means and for outputting the sensed actual motion in the form of an electrical signal; comparing means for comparing the sensed actual motion to the desired motion for determining a measured error in the path and its time history; and control means for generating a feedback control signal based upon the measured error for correction of that error. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the feedback control signal is input into one of the actuating means, first processor, and second processor. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the computer controlled machine is a CNC machine having at least one operating axis. 22. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the computer controlled machine is a robotic arm having at least two links. 23. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the desired motion path and its time history along that path are one of beginning and end positions, velocities, accelerations, their time derivatives, and any combination thereof. 24. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated by a half-angle representation. 25. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a full-angle representation. 26. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a rational Bezier form. 27. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a harmonic deCasteljau algorithm. 28. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the Bernstein harmonic basis functions are calculated from a low-harmonic rational Bezier curve which approximates the path and the time history of motion along the path. 29. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the output from the first processor is in the form of an analog signal. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the sensing means output is in the form of an analog signal and wherein the apparatus further comprises a converting means for converting the sensing means output signal to a digital signal before inputting into the comparing means. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensing means is one of a Hall effect sensor and a potentiometer. 32. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the sensing means output is in the form of a digital signal. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the sensing means is an optical encoder. 34. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the output from the first processor is in the form of a digital signal, and wherein the apparatus further comprises a converting means for converting the digital signal from the first processor into an analog signal before inputting into the actuating means. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the sensing means output is in the form of a digital signal. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the sensing means is an optical encoder. 37. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the sensing means output is in the form of analog signal, and wherein the apparatus further comprises a converting means for converting the sensing means output from analog signal into a digital signal before inputting the comparing means. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the sensing means is one of a Hall effect sensor and a potentiometer. 39. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the desired motion is one of a position, velocity, acceleration, their derivatives, and any combination thereof. 40. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the first processor is a personal computer having a central processing unit. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the personal computer further having at least one expansion slot. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the second processor comprises a computer board for plugging into the expansion slot of the personal computer. 43. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the power amplifier comprises a computer board for plugging into the expansion slot of the personal computer. 44. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the comparing means comprises the central processing unit of the personal computer. 45. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the control means comprises the central processing unit of the personal computer. 46. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the actuating means comprises one of a linear or rotary direct current servo motor, a linear or rotary direct drive motor, and a stepper motor. 