A needle sorting device including an infeed device which first singulates a bulk supply of surgical needles into single file with an intermittently driven vibratory feed bowl assembly, and then individually separates and deposits the needles on a first conveyor for transmission to a processing station with a linear slide discharge mechanism. The first conveyor is translucent and during transit, one or more cameras obtain an image of the individual deposited needles. The image is digitized and the digital signals are transmitted to a control system computer which evaluates the position and orientation for needles and processes the information to obtain data for communication to one or more robot assemblies having grippers. Utilizing the position and orientation data, the robot assembly grippers removes selected needles from the first conveyor and transfers each needle to an engagement device located upon a second precision conveyor. This second precision conveyor is provided with additional devices to further orient the needle transferred thereto. A moveable hard stop is provided at the end of the precision conveyor to provide precise positioning of the needle to an accuracy of 0.001 inch at needle hand-off. Each oriented and precisely positioned needle is conveyed by the second conveyor to an automatic swaging station where sutures are automatically attached.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus for singulating and precisely positioning curved surgical needles for subsequent swaging, said apparatus comprising: (a) means for individually singulating a single needle from a bulk supply and depositing a single needle upon a first conveyor means; (b) means for obtaining an image of said needles at one or more predetermined locations upon said first conveyor means, said means including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals; (c) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for each selected one of the imaged needles on said first conveyor means; and (d) transfer means for removing said needle from said first conveyor means in accordance with its individual positional and orientation data and transferring said needle to a precise positioning apparatus for conveyance to a subsequent swaging operation. 2. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for singulating and depositing said needles further includes means for singulating each of said needles prior to deposition upon said first conveyor means, each of said singulated needles being deposited upon said first conveyor means in a spaced apart relation. 3. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transfer means includes one or more robot means each robot means having a gripper means for picking up needles from said first conveyor means, and placing said needles upon said precise positioning apparatus. 4. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said precise positioning apparatus includes one or more engagement devices for gripping a respective needle, said transfer means placing each said needle in a respective engagement device. 5. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said computer control means further includes memory means for storing said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles, said transfer means including means for accessing said memory means to obtain said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles. 6. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for obtaining an image of said individually deposited needles includes one or more camera means, each of said one or more camera means in communication with said computer control means. 7. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein each of said camera means obtains a video image of said needles upon said first conveyor means at each of respective said one or more predetermined locations within a field-of-view of each of said one or more camera means. 8. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said singulating means further includes a vibrating bowl and track assembly for providing a single file output of needles to a linear discharge slide mechanism which deposits single needles at spaced positions on said first conveyor means. 9. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said robot means is in communication with said memory means, said robot means accessing said memory means to obtain said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles. 10. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein each of said engagement devices includes a pair of engaging jaws for engaging a needle positioned therebetween by said transfer means. 11. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein each said engagement device further a includes spring means for biasing a first movable jaw of said pair of engaging jaws into engagement with a second fixed jaw of said pair of engaging jaws to retain said needle positioned therebetween. 12. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein each of said engagement devices further includes means for retracting said first movable engaging jaw from engagement with said second fixed jaw prior to positioning said needle therebetween. 13. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said means for retracting said first movable jaw from engagement with said second fixed jaw is a push rod for pushing said first movable jaw in opposition to said bias of said spring means. 14. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 4 further including a first orienting means for orienting each said needle in a uniform direction while positioned upon said precise positioning apparatus. 15. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 14 further including a second orienting means for further orienting said needle axially within said pair of engagement jaws. 16. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 15 further including a third orienting means for further orienting said needle to within 0.001 inch of a desired predetermined orientation for said needle upon said precise positioning apparatus. 17. A method for automatically sorting needles comprising the steps of: (a) singulating a single needle from a bulk supply of needles and depositing individual needles in a spaced relationship upon a first conveyor means; (b) obtaining an image of said deposited needles upon said first conveyor means and digitizing said image; (c) processing said digitized image to obtain positional and orientation data for one or more of said deposited needles; and (d) transferring said selected needle from said first conveyor means to a precise positioning means in a predetermined orientation based upon said positional and orientation data. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said singulating step (a) includes the step of singulating the bulk supply of needles into a single file and then partitioning said single file into at least two separate locations for deposition upon said first conveyor means, wherein needles from said first and second locations are randomly deposited in a spaced apart relation. 19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the step (c) of obtaining positional and orientation data for a selected deposited needle further includes the step of processing said positional and orientation data for generating instructions to enable a robot arm means to grasp said selected needle at a preselected location in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data and transfer it to said second conveyance means in a predetermined orientation. 20. A method according to claim 19 wherein the step (d) of transferring the needles further includes the step of placing each needle between a pair of engagement jaws located upon said precise positioning means. 21. A method according to claim 20 further including the step of further orienting said needle while positioned upon said precise positioning means . 