A system software solution for controlling an enterprise comprising one or more components for controlling one or more aspects of an industrial environment with code that creates a database of components, each of the components containing control, diagnostic and resource information pertaining to enterprise resources utilized in the industrial environment. The system also generates code that controls resources comprising cognitive and timing information that synchronizes events throughout the enterprise. The database of components includes code that updates the database to reflect changes in the enterprise and integrates the new design, simulation, implementation and maintenance changes to optimize the manufacturing enterprise utilizing the database of components.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A method for controlling an enterprise, including a computer with one or more components for controlling one or more aspects of an industrial environment, comprising the steps of: (a) creating a database of components, each of the components containing control and resource information pertaining to enterprise resources utilized in the enterprise; (b) assigning resources necessary for an enterprise control system from the database of components; (c) assigning resources times to perform activities; and (d) integrating the resources, times and activities utilizing the database to control and display information pertaining to the enterprise. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, including the step of matching a control assembly to resources to perform activities. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, including the step of connecting the control assembly to one or more electrical or pneumatic devices. 4. A method as recited in claim 2, including the step of sequencing the control assembly by time. 5. A method as recited in claim 2, including the step of generating a visual depiction of at least one control assembly. 6. A method as recited in claim 5, including the step of integrating a set of control assemblies and their associated visual depictions into an enterprise control system. 7. A method as recited in claim 6, including the step of storing the set of control assemblies and their associated visual depictions in a database for use in depicting and managing an enterprise. 8. A system for controlling an enterprise, including a computer with one or more components for controlling one or more aspects of an industrial environment, comprising: (a) a database of components, each of the components containing control and resource information pertaining to enterprise resources utilized in the industrial environment; (b) a first code segment that assigns resources necessary for an enterprise control system from the database of components; (c) a second code segment that assigns resources times to perform activities; and (d) an enterprise system that integrates the resources, times and activities utilizing the database to control and display information pertaining to the enterprise. 9. A system as recited in claim 8, including a database component that matches a control assembly to resources to perform an activity. 10. A system as recited in claim 8, including a database component that connects the control assembly to one or more electrical or pneumatic devices. 11. A system as recited in claim 8, including a database component that sequences the control assembly by time. 12. A system as recited in claim 8, including a display component that generates a visual depiction of at least one control assembly. 13. A system as recited in claim 8, including a database component that integrates the control assemblies and their associated visual depictions into an enterprise control system. 14. A system as recited in claim 13, including a database component that stores the control assemblies and their associated visual depictions in the database for use in depicting and managing an enterprise. 15. A computer program embodied on a computer-readable medium for controlling an enterprise, comprising: (a) a database code segment with a plurality of components, each of the components containing control and resource information pertaining to enterprise resources utilized in the enterprise; (b) a code segment that assigns resources necessary for an enterprise control system from the database of components; (c) the database code segment assigning resources times to perform activities; and (d) an enterprise system control code segment that integrates the resources, times and activities utilizing the database to control and display information pertaining to the enterprise. 16. The computer program embodied on a computer-readable medium as recited in claim 15, including a database component that matches a control assembly to resources to perform the activities. 17. A computer program as recited in claim 15, including a database component that connects the control assembly to one or more electrical or pneumatic devices. 18. A computer program as recited in claim 15, including a display component that generates a visual depiction of at least one control assembly. 19. A computer program as recited in claim 15, including a database component that integrates at least one control assembly and its associated visual depiction into an enterprise control system. 20. A computer program as recited in claim 19, including a database component that stores the control assemblies and their associated visual depictions in the database for use in depicting and managing an enterprise . 