Screening assays for identifying ligase activity modulators are provided, in both solid phase and liquid phase formats. Solid phase formats detect ligase activity by ligating a labelled nucleic acid to a capture nucleic acid in the presence of the ligase modulator and detection of the labelled nucleic acid. Liquid phase assays detect ligation-dependent changes in interactive labels between nucleic acids such as proximity quenching of fluorescent labels. Compositions, apparatus and integrated systems for assays are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring the activity of a nucleic acid ligase in the presence of a potential nucleic acid ligase activity modulator, comprising: incubating a test ligation mixture comprising: a nucleic acid ligase; a tagged nucleic acid comprising template strand which comprises a tag; a labeling nucleic acid comprising a primary label, wherein the labeling nucleic acid is fully complementary to at least part of the template strand; a phosphate donor or a phosphate acceptor strand that is fully complementary to at least part of the template strand; and a potential activity modulator; binding the tag to a solid support, thereby binding the tagged nucleic acid to the solid support; and, determining whether the labeling nucleic acid is ligated to the phosphate donor or the phosphate acceptor strand and forms a duplex with the tagged nucleic acid by detecting the presence or absence of the labeling nucleic acid on the solid support, thereby determining the activity of the ligase in the test mixture. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is partially double stranded, comprising the template strand and the phosphate donor strand, the template strand overhanging the phosphate donor strand, thereby providing a single-stranded template overhang, wherein the labeling nucleic acid comprises a single stranded region complementary to the overhang, and wherein incubating a control ligation mixture comprising the nucleic acid ligase, the tagged nucleic acid, and the labeling nucleic acid, in the absence of the potential activity modulator, results in ligation of the tagged nucleic acid to the labeling nucleic acid. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein incubating a test ligation mixture comprising the potential activity modulator results in a lower rate of ligation between the tagged nucleic acid and the labeling nucleic acid than the control ligation mixture. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising quantitating the amount of labeling nucleic acid bound to the solid support. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling nucleic acid is selected from the group consisting of: a single-stranded RNA, a double-stranded RNA, a single-stranded DNA, a double-stranded DNA, a double-stranded DNA-RNA hybrid, an RNA analogue, and a DNA analogue, and wherein the tagged nucleic acid is selected from the group consisting of a double-stranded RNA, a double-stranded DNA, a double-stranded DNA-RNA hybrid, an RNA analogue, and a DNA analogue. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid ligase is selected from the group consisting of: an NAD.sup.30 -dependent nucleic acid ligase, an ATP-dependent nucleic acid ligase, and a nucleic acid ligase from a prokaryotic, eukaryotic, or viral source. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling nucleic acid is detected by binding a secondary label to the primary label and detecting the secondary label. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the primary label and the secondary label are independently selected from the group consisting of: a radioactive label, a fluorophore, a dye, an enzyme, an enzyme substrate, and an antibody. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the primary label comprises a fluorescein and the secondary label is a peroxidase-conjugated anti-fluorescein antibody. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling nucleic acid is detected by detecting the primary label. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support comprises a substrate coated with streptavidin or neutravidin and the tag comprises a biotin moiety. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is immobilized on the solid support through an interaction selected from the group consisting of: non-covalent binding of a ligand to a ligand binding moiety, and covalent attachment of at least the template strand of the tagged nucleic acid to the solid support. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the step of washing tinligated labeling nucleic acid from the solid support. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein unligated labeling nucleic acid hybridizes to the tagged nucleic acid during the step of incubating the test ligation mixture and wherein unligated labeling nucleic acid is released from the tagged nucleic acid during the step of washing the unligated labeling nucleic acid from the solid support. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling nucleic acid is between about 8 and about 20 nucleotides in length. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling nucleic acid is about 10 nucleotides in length. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid comprises a template strand at least about 28 nucleotides in length. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential modulator is selected from the group consisting of: a ligase inhibitor, and a ligase activator. 19. A method of measuring the activity of nucleic acid ligase in the presence of a potential ligase activity modulator comprising: incubating a test ligation mixture comprising the nucleic acid ligase; a first nucleic acid comprising a first label and a first single-stranded overhang; a second nucleic acid comprising a second label and a complementary second single-stranded region which hybridizes to the first single-stranded overhang and the ligase activity modulator; and, detecting, in a liquid phase, the presence or absence of a detectable emission selected from the group consisting of: an emission by the first label, an emission by the second label, and an emission resulting from a combination of the first and second label, wherein the presence or absence of the detectable emission indicates whether the first and second nucleic acid are ligated. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the relative proximity of the first and second labels is determined by measuring a change in the intrinsic fluorescence of the first or second label. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the emission of the first label is quenched by proximity of the second label. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising heating the test ligation mixture. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the first nucleic acid comprises a first single-stranded overhang, and wherein the second nucleic acid comprises a complementary single-stranded region which hybridizes to the first single-stranded overhang, wherein heating the ligation mixture destabilizes and releases unligated first and second nucleic acids. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the ligation mixture is heated to room temperature, thereby destabilizing and releasing unligated first and second nucleic acids. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein the first nucleic acid comprises a template strand and a phosphate donor strand, the template strand overhanging the phosphate donor strand, thereby providing a single-stranded template overhang, wherein the second nucleic acid comprises a single stranded region complementary to the overhang, and wherein incubating the nucleic acid ligase, the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid in an absence of the ligase modulator results in ligation of the first and second nucleic acids. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein heating the ligation mixture dissociates unligated first and second nucleic acids. 27. The method of claim 19, wherein the second nucleic acid comprises a second label. 28. The method of claim 19, wherein the first and second labels are independently selected from the group consisting of: a fluorescent label, a dye, an enzymatic label, and an antibody label. 29. The method of claim 20, wherein the first label is selected from the group consisting of: terbium chelate, and europium cryptate; and wherein the second label is selected from the group consisting of: TRITC, and Allophycocyanin. 30. The method of claim 19, wherein the first and second nucleic acids are between about 8 and about 40 nucleotides in length. 31. The method of claim 19, wherein the first or second nucleic acid is at least about 10 nucleotides in length. 32. The method of claim 19, wherein the nucleic acid ligase is selected from the group consisting of: an NAD.sup.30 -dependent nucleic acid ligase, an ATP-dependent nucleic acid ligase, and a nucleic acid ligase from a prokaryotic, eukaryotic or viral source. 33. The method of claim 19, wherein the test ligation mixture is incubated in the liquid phase in well on a microtiter dish. 34. A composition comprising: a nucleic acid ligase enzyme; a tagged nucleic acid comprising a template strand which comprises a tag; a nucleic acid ligase activity modulator; a phosphate donor or a phosphate acceptor strand that is fully complementary to at least part of the template strand; and, a labeled nucleic acid, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is fully complementary to at least part of the labeled nucleic acid molecule. 35. The composition of claim 34, wherein the tag binds to a tag-binding molecule fixed to a solid substrate, thereby immobilizing the tagged nucleic acid on the solid substrate. 36. The composition of claim 34, wherein the tag is a biotin molecule. 37. A composition comprising a nucleic acid ligase enzyme; a first nucleic acid comprising a first label; a second nucleic acid comprising a second label; and a nucleic acid ligase activity modulator, wherein the first nucleic acid is fully complementary to at least part of the second nucleic acid and wherein the first label is quenched by the second label when the first and second labels are in close proximity. 38. The composition of claim 37, wherein the first label is quenched by the second label when the first label is within about 10 nm of the second label. 39. The composition of claim 37, wherein the first and second labels are fluorescent labels. 40. The composition of claim 37, wherein the first label is selected from the group consisting of: terbium chelate, and europium cryptate; and the second label is selected from the group consisting of: TRITC, and Allophycocyanin. 41. The composition of claim 37, wherein the relative proximity of the first and second labels is determined by measuring a change in the intrinsic fluorescence of the first or second label. 42. A kit comprising a nucleic acid ligase enzyme; a first nucleic acid having a first label; and a second nucleic acid molecule having a second label, wherein the first nucleic acid is fully complementary to at least part of the second nucleic acid and wherein the first label is quenched by the second label when the first and second labels are in close proximity, a control nucleic acid ligase activity modulator the kit further comprising one or more component selected from the group consisting of: instructions to practice a high-throughput method of screening for a ligase inhibitor, one or more containers or compartments, and a robotic armature for mixing kit components. 43. An integrated system for high-throughput screening of potential ligase modulators for an effect on a ligase, comprising: a robotic armature which transfers fluid from a source to a destination; a controller which controls the robotic armature; a label detector, a data storage unit which records label detection; and an assay component selected from the group consisting of: a microtiter dish comprising a well having a nucleic acid ligase enzyme; a control nucleic acid ligase activity modulator; a first nucleic acid having a first label; and a second nucleic acid having a second label, wherein the first nucleic acid is fully complementary to at least part of the second nucleic acid and wherein the first label is quenched by the second label when the first and second labels are in close proximity, which quenching is detected by the label detector; and, a substrate comprising a fixed nucleic acid having a label detected by the label detector, wherein the fixed nucleic acid comprises a tag which is bound to the solid support and wherein the label is covalently attached to the fixed nucleic acid by the action of a ligase enzyme and a control nucleic acid ligase modulator. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein the tagged nucleic acid is partially double stranded, comprising the template strand and the phosphate acceptor strand, the template strand overhanging the phosphate acceptor strand, thereby providing a single-stranded template overhang, wherein the labeling nucleic acid comprises a phosphate donor and a single stranded region complementary to the overhang, and further comprising the step of incubating a control ligation mixture comprising the nucleic acid ligase, the tagged nucleic acid, and the labeling nucleic acid, in the absence of the potential activity modulator, thereby resulting in ligation of the tagged nucleic acid to the labeling nucleic acid in the control ligation mixture. 45. The method of claim 19, wherein the first nucleic acid comprises a template strand and a phosphate acceptor strand, the template strand overhanging the phosphate acceptor strand, thereby providing a single-stranded template overhang, wherein the second nucleic acid comprises a phosphate donor and a single stranded region complementary to the overhang, and further comprising the step of incubating a control reaction mixture comprising the nucleic acid ligase, the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid in an absence of the ligase modulator, thereby resulting in ligation of the first and second nucleic acids in the control reaction mixture. 46. A method of measuring the activity of nucleic acid ligase in the presence, of a potential ligase activity modulator comprising: incubating a test ligation mixture comprising the nucleic acid ligase; a first nucleic acid comprising a first label; a second nucleic acid comprising a second label; and the ligase activity modulator, wherein the first nucleic acid is labeled at a 5' end of a strand and the second nucleic acid is labeled at a 3' end of a strand so that upon ligation the first and second labels are on a same end of a duplex nucleic acid; and, detecting, in a liquid phase, the presence or absence of a detectable emission selected from the group consisting of: an emission by the first label, an emission by the second label, and from a combination of the first and second label, wherein the presence or absence of the detectable emission from a combination of the first and second label indicates whether the first and second nucleic acid are ligated. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the first nucleic acid comprises a template strand labeled at the 3' end and a phosphate donor strand, the template strand overhanging the phosphate donor strand, thereby providing a single-stranded template overhang, wherein the second nucleic acid comprises a phosphate acceptor strand labeled at the 5' end and a single stranded region complementary to the overhang, and wherein incubating the nucleic acid ligase, the first nucleic acid and the second nucleic acid in an absence of the ligase modulator results in ligation of the first and second nucleic acids. 