A route planning algorithm for a vehicle takes into account the aspect angle which the vehicle presents to threats in the environment. A flag is set in each map grid cell for which intervisibility with a threat exists. For each cell in which the flag is set, an aspect angle pointer points to a mathematical function which represents the cost value function attributable to the type of vehicle, the type of threat, and the aspect angle of the path segment. A determination is made as to whether an auxiliary function representing the probability of the threat is associated with the cell under consideration, and if so the auxiliary function is evaluated. If the result of the auxiliary function is nonzero, the aspect angle function is evaluated, and added to the map cost function to form a total cost. If not, the route planning algorithm continues without taking aspect angle into account. If so, the route planner uses the total cost.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer method for determining a vehicle path toward a goal location, said method comprising the steps of: precomputing a quantized data representation of the environment, including an array of cells or elements defining a coordinate system, said quantized data representation including information relating the terrain, the location of said vehicle in said environment, probable locations of threats, and probable characteristics of said threats, said quantized data representation also including, for each cell or element of said quantized data representation, information relating to the costs associated with traversing the cell or element at a particular aspect angle relative to said coordinate system; determining a goal location; plotting a path though said environment using both said quantized data representation and dynamically determined aspect angle information. 2. A computer method for determining a vehicle path toward a goal location, said method comprising the steps of: obtaining a quantized data representation of the environment quantized into cells or elements, said quantized data representation of the environment including information relating the terrain, the location of said vehicle in said environment, probable locations of threats, and probable characteristics of said threats, said quantized data representation including, for each cell or element of said quantized data representation, information relating to static costs associated with information about the environment which can be determined regardless of aspect angle of said vehicle relative to said threats; obtaining information relating to the characteristics of said vehicle as a function of both aspect angle and threat; determining a goal location; plotting a path though said environment using (a) said precomputed static cost representation in conjunction with (b) a function including said information relating to the characteristics of said vehicle as a function of both said aspect angle and said threat. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said function includes a factor depending upon the distance of said threat. 4. A method for planning a route for a vehicle, said method comprising the steps of: storing information pertaining to the environment as map cost values in a grid-based array of map cells, said information including the locations and characteristics of threats; determining a region of intervisibility for each threat; and determining a route through said environment by summing map cost values; storing aspect-angle cost values associated with the type of threat, the type of vehicle, and the aspect angle between said threat and said vehicle; and only within said region of intervisibility, summing said aspect-angle cost values with said map cost values. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said step of summing aspect-angle cost values includes the further steps of: setting a flag associated with each map cell for those situations in which intervisibility with a threat exists; for each map cell in which a flag is set, adding a pointer which point to the aspect angle cost value which defines the threat associated with the vehicle for which the route is being planned, the threat, and the path segment being considered; and evaluating said aspect angle cost value to determine said aspect angle cost values. 6. A method according to claim 5, further comprising the step of: for each map cell in which a flag is set, adding an aspect angle threshold function which determines if the aspect angle must be considered for the cell under consideration; and between said steps of adding a pointer and evaluating said aspect angle function, performing the further steps of: determining the presence or absence of a threshold function in association with a cell under consideration; if a threshold function is associated with the cell under consideration, evaluating said threshold function to produce a threshold function cost value; if said threshold function cost value is less than the value of said aspect angle threshold function, bypassing said step of evaluating said aspect angle function to determine said aspect angle cost values, and using said map cost value in place of said total cost value. 