A method and apparatus for assembly particularly addressed to the assembly of automobiles and aircraft done with reconfigurable modular and "intelligent" tooling fixtures (also called jigs, or holding fixtures). Much of the capability of the system is brought by the optical or other non-contact sensing devices incorporated with the tools to provide information on part location, tooling detail location, and automation (such as robots), used to load, weld, rivet, or otherwise perform work with parts in the tool. A preferred version of the invention uses 3-dimensional stereo and/or other simpler electro-optical ranging and feature location sensors operating in real time to perform numerous measurements of location of critical features of assembly tools and the parts placed within them, to even include detection of abnormal features such as missing holes or welds. The computer system associated with the sensors builds up a data base of part condition before, during and after welding (or other working or assembly function within the tool). This data base is used automatically, or by an engineer or operator, to continuously improve the process and to feed data to related processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of joining sheet metal components to form an assembled sheet metal part comprising: (a) providing assembly tooling comprising a base, a plurality of fixed hard tool locators fixedly mounted on said base, clamping means for holding said sheet metal components in position on said locators for assembly in said tooling, and means for joining said sheet metal components in said position on said locators for assembly to form an assembled sheet metal part in said tooling; (b) supporting a plurality of sheet metal components on said locators in said position for assembly; (c) actuating said clamping means to hold said components on said locators in said position for assembly; (d) actuating said joining means to join said sheet metal components to form said assembled sheet metal part; and (e) electro-optically sensing a plurality of locations of said assembled sheet metal part prior to removing said assembled sheet metal part from said locators. 2. A method according to claim 1 further comprising obtaining data representative of the sensed plurality of locations of said assembled sheet metal part. 3. A method according to claim 2 further comprising comparing the obtained data to a standard. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein said standard is obtained from an acceptable assembled part produced by said method. 5. A method according to claim 2 further comprising recording the obtained data. 6. A method according to claim 2 comprising obtaining said data for a plurality of assembled parts assembled sequentially over a period of time. 7. A method according to claim 6 further comprising creating a data base from said obtained data. 8. A method according to claim 6 further comprising determining desired locator position data for an assembled part from said data obtained for a plurality of assembled parts over a period of time. 9. A method according to claim 8 further comprising utilizing said data obtained from a plurality of assembled parts to position said locator in said desired position. 10. A method according to claim 2 further comprising adjusting the position of at least one of said locators based on the obtained data. 11. A method according to claim 1 further comprising sensing said clamping means, said joining means, or at least one of said locators. 12. A method according to claim 1 further comprising electro-optically sensing a plurality of locations of at least one of said sheet metal components prior to actuating said joining means. 13. A method according to claim 1 further comprising unclamping said clamping means, and removing said assembled sheet metal part from said tooling. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said sensing is effected prior to said unclamping. 15. A method according to claim 13 wherein said sensing is effected after said unclamping. 16. A method according to claim 1 wherein said locations are on a surface of the assembled part. 17. A method according to claim 1 wherein said locations comprise points, lines, or holes. 18. A method according to claim 1 further comprising removing said assembled part from said tooling, determining said plurality of locations of the removed assembled part, and comparing the determined locations with the obtained data representative of the sensed plurality of said locations. 19. A method according to claim 1 further comprising utilizing the obtained data to position said joining means. 20. Assembly tooling for joining sheet metal components to form an assembled sheet metal part comprising: a base; a plurality of fixed hard tool locators mounted on said base for supporting sheet metal components in fixed positions for assembly; clamping means for clamping said components in said fixed position on said locators for assembly in said tooling; means for joining said sheet metal components in said fixed positions for assembly to form an assembled sheet metal part in said tooling; means for actuating said clamping means to clamp said components in said fixed positions and to unclamp said components; means for actuating said joining means to form an assembled sheet metal part in said assembly tooling; a plurality of fixed electro-optical sensors fixedly mounted relative to said base and positioned to sense a plurality of locations of an assembled sheet metal part supported on said locators in said assembly tooling; and means for reading said sensors. 21. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein said sensor reading means comprises programmable control means programmed to read said sensors to obtain data representative of said locations of said assembled sheet metal part. 22. Assembly tooling according to claim 21 wherein said control means is programmed to read said sensors to obtain said data for a plurality of assembled sheet metal parts assembled sequentially over a period of time, said tooling further comprising means for recording data read from said sensors. 23. Assembly tooling according to claim 21 wherein said control means is programmed to compare the data obtained from at least one of said sensors to a standard. 24. Assembly tooling according to claim 21 wherein said control means is programmed to read said sensors after clamping said clamping means. 25. Assembly tooling according to claim 24 wherein said control means is programmed to read said sensors before unclamping said clamping means. 26. Assembly tooling according to claim 24 wherein said control means is programmed to read said sensors after unclamping said clamping means. 27. Assembly tooling according to claim 21 further comprising means for displaying said data. 28. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 further comprising means for displaying data obtained from said sensors. 29. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 further comprising an electro-optical sensor for sensing said clamping means, said joining means, or at least one of said locators. 30. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 further comprising means for protecting at least one of said sensors from its environment. 31. Assembly tooling according to claim 30 wherein said protecting means comprising a removable and easily replaceable window. 32. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein at least one of said sensors is located within 20 cm of said joining means. 33. Assembly tooling according to claim 32 wherein said joining means comprises a welding gun. 34. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein said sensor comprises a TV camera. 35. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein at least one of said sensors includes means for sensing said location of said assembled part over a range of possible locations. 36. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein at least one of said sensors comprises a laser. 37. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein at least one of said sensors comprises a triangulation sensor. 38. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein at least one of said sensors comprises a detector array. 39. Assembly tooling according to claim 20 wherein at least one of said sensors is positioned to sense a location on a surface of an assembled part facing said base when said assembled part is supported on said locators. 