A method of developing processing system software media to provide at least one user with a display of at least one user controllable image such that the user causes the user controllable image to perform interactive, idiosyncratic, simulated, physical, movements on a display means. The invention includes the display of demonstrative image movements to which users cause interactive, idiosyncratic, simulated, physical, responsive movements to be made by user controllable images. Demonstrative image movements may be made by images of any previously or presently living things, objects and systems. The user controllable images are customized by the user with respect to its on-screen proportional dimensions and characteristics and its movements may be idiosyncratically controlled by the user and/or by pre-programmed, pre-stored, maintained means. The user controllable image acquires a form of personalized artificial intelligence in that users' transmissions of idiosyncratic input controls are stored and maintained by the processing system as the effective memory and autonomous and/or semi-autonomous movement capabilities of users' controllable images.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of developing processing system software media to provide at least one user with a display of at least one user controllable image for use in interactive, personal, idiosyncratic, simulated, physical movements, said method comprising the steps of: generating, storing, and maintaining, in a memory means of said processing system, at least one processor displayable user controllable image controlled by said at least one user to perform a sequence of said movements; providing means, to said processing system, to display said at least one user controllable image; providing means, to said processing system, to receive inputs from said at least one user to control said at least one user controllable image; constructing said at least one user controllable image to make said movements, controlled by said input means from said at least one user, without requiring said at least one user to make corresponding physical movements; recording and maintaining, in said memory means, a record of said user controllable image movements such that said record is modified to represent said idiosyncratic movements as controlled by said input means; and providing means, to said processing system, to send outputs of said user controllable image movements from said memory means to said display means. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said user controllable image movements are recorded and maintained such that said movements may be selected by said user to be repeated by said user controllable image, without further input controls from the user. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said maintained record in said memory is modified by subsequent user controllable image movements as controlled by said at least one user. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said maintained record in said memory is synchronously added to by additional user controllable image movements as controlled by said at least one user. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said maintained record in said memory is retained as antecedent user controllable image movements that are sequentially added to by subsequent user controllable image movements as controlled by said at least one user. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising accepting or rejecting said inputs. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising accepting, input from at least one user, to select the characteristic parameters of said user controllable image. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising accepting, input from at least one user, to select the displayed speed of movement of said user controllable image. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said movements of said user controllable image are restricted by pre-programmed simulated movements limits such that said user controllable image performs interactive simulated, physical movements within the boundaries of said pre-programmed movement limits. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing means of measurement, to said processing system, wherein said user controlled movements of said user controllable image are measured with respect to a pre-programmed model of preferred movements of said user controllable image. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one user controls said user controllable image so that said measurements indicate achievement by said at least one user in controlling said user controllable image. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing input means to control said user controllable image movements does not require said at least one user to move the same or any related part of the user's body. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing input means for said user controllable image further comprises the steps of providing input means, to said processing system, to allow said at least one user to specify the position of said user controllable image with respect to any axis and providing input means, to said processing system, to allow said at least one user to specify the orientation of said user controllable image with respect to any axis. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of constructing the movement of the user controllable image is derived from at least one of said user transmitted inputs, controls, pre-stored idiosyncratic movements and pre-programmed controls. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing input means to control said at least one user controllable image to perform demonstrative simulated physical movements. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing at least one additional user controllable image to interact with said demonstrative movements. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing input means to control at least one user controllable image further comprising providing input means to control an additional user controllable image; and providing input means to each user controllable image to respond to one another. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing means to display said user controllable image comprises the step of using recorded video images. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of providing means to display said user controllable image comprises the step of using live video images. 20. A method of developing processing system software media to provide at least one user with a display of at least one demonstrative image and at least one user controllable image for use in interactive, personal, idiosyncratic, simulated, physical movements, said method comprising the steps of: generating and storing, in a memory means of said processing system, at least one processor displayed sequence of demonstrative images, wherein said at least one processor displayed sequence of demonstrative images comprises a series of demonstrative performance of an activity representing physical movements; further generating, storing, and maintaining, in said memory means of said processing system, at least one processor displayable user controllable image controlled by said at least one user to perform a sequence of said movements; providing means, to said processing system, to display said processor displayable images; providing means, to said processing system, to receive inputs from said at least one user to control said at least one user controllable image; constructing said at least one user controllable image to make said movements, controlled by said input means from said at least one user, without requiring said at least one user to make corresponding physical movements; recording and maintaining, in said memory means, a record of said user controllable image movements such that said record is modified to represent said idiosyncratic movements as controlled by said input means; and displaying said movements of said user controllable image on said display means in sequence with said displayed image of said sequence of demonstrative images. 21. A method of developing processing system software media to provide at least one user with at least one user controllable device for use in interactive, personal, idiosyncratic, simulated, physical movements, said method comprising the steps of: generating, storing, and maintaining, in a memory means of said processing system, at least one user controllable model responsive to input from said at least one user so as to cause said device to perform said movements; providing means, to said processing system, to receive inputs from said at least one user to control said at least one user controllable device; constructing said at least one user controllable model such that said user controllable device is controlled to perform said movements without requiring said at least one user to perform corresponding physical movements; recording and maintaining, in said memory means, a record of said user controllable device movements such that said record is modified to represent said idiosyncratic movements as controlled by said input means; and providing means, to said processing system, to send outputs from said record to said user controllable device such that said outputs represent said user controllable device movements. 