A control system for optimizing the performance of a vehicle suspension system by controlling the damping factor of one or more shock absorbers is described. The control system uses a fitness (performance) function that is based on the physical laws of minimum entropy. The control system uses a fuzzy neural network that is trained by a genetic analyzer. The genetic analyzer uses a fitness function that maximizes information while minimizing entropy production. The fitness function uses a difference between the time differential of entropy from a control signal produced in a learning control module and the time differential of the entropy calculated by a model of the suspension system that uses the control signal as an input. The entropy calculation is based on a dynamic model of an equation of motion for the suspension system such that the suspension system is treated as an open dynamic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for control of a plant comprising the steps of: calculating a first entropy production rate corresponding to an entropy production rate of a control signal provided to a model of said plant; calculating a second entropy production rate corresponding to an entropy production rate of said model of said plant; determining a fitness function for a genetic optimizer using said first entropy production rate and said second entropy production rate; providing said fitness function to said genetic optimizer; providing a teaching output from said genetic optimizer to a learning input of a first control system, said first control system configured to control said model of said plant; and providing a control parameter from said first control system to parameter input of said second control system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said first control system comprises a neural network. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said second control system comprises a neural network. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said model of said plant comprises a model of a suspension system. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said second control system is configured to control a physical plant. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said second control system is configured to control a shock absorber. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said second control system is configured to control a damping rate of a shock absorber. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said second control system receives sensor input data from one or more sensors that monitor a vehicle suspension system. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of said sensors is a height sensor that measures a vehicle height. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of said sensors is a length sensor that measures a change in length of at least a portion of said suspension system. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of said sensors is an angle sensor that measures an angle of at least a portion of said suspension system with respect to said vehicle. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of said sensors is an angle sensor that measures an angle of a first portion of said suspension system with respect to a second portion of said suspension system. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said second control system is configured to control a throttle valve in a shock absorber. 14. A control apparatus comprising: off-line optimization means for determining a control parameter from an entropy production rate; online control means for using said control parameter to control a plant. 