A robotic mechanism which can be attached to a furnace hopper and includes a frame which supports a pole insertion mechanism for inserting a pole into a furnace hopper. The pole insertion mechanism is supported from the Fame by a gimbal and moves the pole axially. Hydraulic actuators rotate the pole insertion mechanism about the gimbal. A control system is associated with the mechanism and enables an operator to position the end of the pole within the hopper to remove clinkers.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A robotic mechanism for inserting and positioning the end of a pole within a hopper of a furnace comprising: a frame assembly adapted to be secured to the furnace hopper, a pole insertion mechanism for receiving, guiding and axially moving said pole, a gimbal for mounting said pole insertion mechanism on said frame assembly, and actuators for rotating said pole insertion mechanism horizontally and vertically about said gimbal. 2. A robotic mechanism as in claim 1 in which said actuators comprise hydraulic actuators mounted between said frame assembly and said pole insertion mechanism. 3. A robotic mechanism as in claim 2 in which said pole insertion mechanism comprises a clamp and move assembly. 4. A robotic mechanism as in claim 3 in which said clamp and move assembly includes spaced plates including clamping means for selectively clamping the pole to the plates and hydraulic actuators for selectively moving the plates whereby the pole is axially driven by selectively clamping and moving said plates. 5. A robotic mechanism as in claim 3 including valve means for controlling the application of hydraulic fluid to said hydraulic actuators, responsive to control signals, so as to position the end of the pole at a selected location. 6. A robotic mechanism as in claim 5 in which said control signals are generated by a processor in response to operator generated control signals. 7. A robotic mechanism as in claim 6 including means for providing to an operator a visual display of the pole location within the hopper interior to enable the operator to generate the control signals. 8. A robotic mechanism for inserting and positioning the end of a pole within a hopper of a furnace comprising: a frame assembly including a mating frame for attaching the frame assembly to the furnace hopper and an actuator frame hingedly secured to said mating frame, a pole insertion mechanism for receiving, guiding and axially moving said pole, a gimbal for mounting said pole insertion mechanism on said actuator frame, and actuators for rotating said pole insertion mechanism horizontally and vertically about said gimbal. 9. A robotic mechanism as in claim 8 in which said actuators comprise hydraulic actuators mounted between said frame assembly and said pole insertion mechanism. 10. A robotic mechanism as in claim 9 in which said pole insertion mechanism includes spaced plates including clamping means for selectively clamping the plates to the pole and hydraulic actuators for selectively moving the plates whereby the pole is axially driven by selectively clamping and moving the plates. 11. A robotic mechanism for inserting and positioning the end of a pole within a hopper of a furnace comprising: an expendable pole, a frame assembly adapted to be positioned in operative relationship with the exterior of the furnace, a pole insertion mechanism for receiving, guiding and axially moving said expendable pole, a gimbal for mounting said pole insertion mechanism on said frame assembly external of said furnace, and actuators external of said furnace for rotating said expendable pole insertion mechanism horizontally and vertically about said gimbal. 12. A robotic mechanism as in claim 11 in which said actuators comprise hydraulic actuators mounted between said frame and said pole insertion mechanism. 13. A robotic mechanism as in claim 12 in which said pole insertion mechanism includes spaced plates including clamping means for selectively clamping the plates to the pole and hydraulic actuators for selectively moving the plates whereby the pole is axially driven by selectively clamping and moving the plates. 14. A robotic mechanism as in claims 11, 12 or 13 including a control system for controlling said pole insertion mechanism and said actuators. 