The invention provides structure and method for achieving a uniformly polished or planarized substrate such as a semiconductor wafer including achieving substantially uniform polishing between the center of the semiconductor wafer and the edge of the wafer. In one aspect the invention provides a polishing apparatus including a housing, a carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished, a retaining ring circumscribing the carrier for retaining the substrate, a first coupling attaching the retaining ring to the carrier such that the retaining ring may move relative to the carrier, a second coupling attaching the carrier to the housing such that the carrier may move relative to the housing, the housing and the first coupling defining a first pressure chamber to exert a pressure force against the retaining ring, and the housing and the second coupling defining a second pressure chamber to exert a pressure force against the subcarrier. In one embodiment, the couplings are diaphragms. The invention also provides a retaining ring having a special edge profile that assists in smoothing an pre-compressing the polisihng pad to increase polisihng uniformity. A method for polisihing and a semiconductor manufacture is also provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A polishing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier permitting said retaining ring to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing permitting said carrier to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing, said retaining ring being attached to said housing indirectly via said first flexible coupling to said carrier and via said second flexible coupling from said carrier to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; and said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said subcarrier. 2. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said translation and tilt of said carrier is independent of said translation and tilt of said retaining ring. 3. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said translation and tilt of said carrier and said translation and tilt of said retaining ring each have a component that is independent of the other and a component that is dependent on the other. 4. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said first pressure and said second pressure are different pressures. 5. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said first pressure and said second pressure are substantially equal pressures. 6. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said first pressure and said second pressure are substantially equal pressures and the force exerted on said retaining ring and on said carrier are determined by the surface area of said retaining ring and said carrier over which each said pressure is applied. 7. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said first pressure and said second pressure are independently controllable to be positive pressure or negative pressure (vacuum). 8. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer. 9. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said first pressure on said carrier is in the range between substantially 1.5 psi and substantially 10 psi and the second pressure on said retaining ring is in the range between substantially 1.5 psi and substantially 9.0 psi. 10. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said flexible coupling comprises a diaphragm. 11. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said diaphragm is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of: metal, plastic, rubber, polymer, titanium, stainless-steel, carbon fibre composite, and combinations thereof. 12. The polishing apparatus in claim 1, wherein said carrier is formed from ceramic material. 13. The polishing apparatus in claim 3, wherein the extent to which said translation and tilt components of said carrier and said ring are coupled is dependent on material characteristics of said first and second flexible couplings and geometry characteristics of said attachments. 14. The polishing apparatus in claim 13, wherein said material characteristics that affect the extent of coupling include elasticity, stiffness, and spring constant; and said geometry characteristics include distance between attachment locations between said ring and said carrier and distance between attachment locations between said carrier and said housing; the geometry of the interface between said first and second diaphragms and adjacent structures of said housing, said retaining ring, and said carrier. 15. The polishing apparatus in claim 7, wherein the depth of a pocket formed by a surface of said carrier and an inner cylindrical surface of said retaining ring is established during a substrate loading phase by said first pressure and said second pressure. 16. A polishing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier permitting said retaining ring to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing permitting said carrier to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; and said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said subcarrier; said translation and tilt of said carrier is coupled to a predetermined extent with said translation and tilt of said retaining ring. 17. A polishing apparatus comprising: a housing; a disc shaped carrier for mounting a substrate to be polished; a retaining ring substantially circumscribing said carrier for retaining said substrate in a pocket formed by said retaining ring and a surface of said carrier; a first flexible coupling attaching said retaining ring to said carrier permitting said retaining ring to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said carrier; a second flexible coupling attaching said carrier to said housing permitting said carrier to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said housing; said housing and said first flexible coupling defining a first chamber in fluid communication with a first source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a first pressure is communicated to said first chamber a first force is exerted against said retaining ring; said housing and said second flexible coupling defining a second chamber in fluid communication with a second source of pressurized gas such that when gas at a second pressure is communicated to said second chamber a second force is exerted against said subcarrier; and said retaining ring further comprises: a lower surface for contacting an external polishing pad during polishing; an inner cylindrical surface disposed adjacent to an outer circumferential surface of said carrier and the periphery of a substrate mounting surface of said carrier, said inner cylindrical surface and said carrier mounting surface periphery forming a pocket for maintaining said substrate during polishing; and a pad conditioning member disposed at the lower outer radial portion of said retaining ring where said retaining ring contacts said pad during polishing and defining a shape profile transitioning between a first planar surface substantially parallel to a plane of said polishing pad and a second planar surface substantially perpendicular to said polishing pad. 18. The polishing apparatus of claim 17, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially between 15 degrees and substantially 25 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 19. The polishing apparatus of claim 17, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially between 18 degrees and substantially 22 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 20. The polishing apparatus of claim 17, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 21. The polishing apparatus of claim 17, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad; and further characterized by presenting a second angle of substantially 70 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 22. The polishing apparatus of claim 17, further characterized in that said portion presenting a substantially 20 degree angle extends a distance of between 0.03 and 0.04 inches from said lower planar retaining ring surface, and said portion presenting a substantially 70 degree angle extends to at least a distance of about 0.2 inches from said lower planar retaining ring surface. 23. The polishing apparatus of claim 17, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by: presenting an angle substantially between 15 degrees and substantially 25 degrees out of parallel with respect to a nominal plane of said polishing pad; and presenting a second substantially between 65 degrees and substantially 75 degrees out of parallel with respect to said nominal plane of said polishing pad. 24. A substrate retaining ring for retaining a substrate on a carrier in a polishing machine, said retaining ring comprising: a lower surface for contacting an external polishing pad during polishing; an inner cylindrical surface disposed adjacent to an outer circumferential surface of said carrier and the periphery of a substrate mounting surface of said carrier, said inner cylindrical surface and said carrier mounting surface periphery forming a pocket for maintaining said substrate during polishing; and a pad conditioning member disposed at the lower outer radial portion of said retaining ring where said retaining ring contacts said pad during polishing and defining a shape profile transitioning between a first planar surface substantially parallel to a plane of said polishing pad and a second planar surface substantially perpendicular to said polishing pad. 25. The substrate retaining ring of claim 24, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially between 15 degrees and substantially 25 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 26. The polishing apparatus of claim 24, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially between 18 degrees and substantially 22 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 27. The substrate retaining ring of claim 24, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 28. The substrate retaining ring of claim 24, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad; and further characterized by presenting a second angle of substantially 70 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 29. The substrate retaining ring of claim 24, wherein said pad conditioning member is characterized by: presenting an angle substantially between 15 degrees and substantially 25 degrees out of parallel with respect to a nominal plane of said polishing pad; and presenting a second substantially between 65 degrees and substantially 75 degrees out of parallel with respect to said nominal plane of said polishing pad. 30. The substrate retaining ring of claim 27, further characterized in that said portion presenting a substantially 20 degree angle extends a distance of between 0.03 and 0.04 inches from said lower planar retaining ring surface, and said portion presenting a substantially 70 degree angle extends to at least a distance of about 0.2 inches from said lower planar retaining ring surface. 31. In a polishing apparatus having a housing attached to a shaft about which a substrate rotates during polishing, a method of polishing said substrate including: flexibly attaching a substrate support subcarrier to said shaft via said housing permitting said subcarrier to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said shaft; supporting a back-side surface of said substrate with said substrate support subcarrier; applying a polishing force against said support subcarrier to press a front surface of said substrate against a polishing pad; flexibly attaching a retaining ring to said subcarrier and via said subcarrier to said housing and said shaft permitting said retaining ring to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said shaft and relative to said subcarrier; restraining movement of said substrate from said support subcarrier during polishing with said retaining ring circumferentially disposed around a portion of said subcarrier and said substrate; and applying a pad conditioning force against said retaining ring to press a front surface of said retaining ring against said polishing pad. 32. The method in claim 31, wherein said pad conditioning force is applied independently of said polishing force. 33. The method in claim 31, wherein said pad conditioning force is coupled to said polishing force. 34. The method in claim 31, wherein said pad conditioning force is applied to a first area of said pad in a direction orthogonal to a plane defined by said pad surface, to a second area of said pad in a direction having a first fractional component orthogonal to said plane and having a second fractional component parallel to said plane. 35. An article of manufacture wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer polished according to the method of claim 31. 36. The method in claim 31, wherein said translation and tilt of said subcarrier is independent of said translation and tilt of said retaining ring. 37. The method in claim 31, wherein said translation and tilt of said subcarrier and said translation and tilt of said retaining ring each have a component that is independent of the other and a component that is dependent on the other. 38. The method in claim 31, wherein said polishing force and said pad conditioning force are different magnitude forces. 39. The method in claim 31, wherein said polishing force and said pad conditioning force are substantially equal forces. 40. The method in claim 31, wherein said polishing force and said pad conditioning force are substantially equal forces and the force exerted on said retaining ring and on said subcarrier are determined by the surface area of said retaining ring and said subcarrier over which each said polishing force and said pad conditioning force is applied. 41. The method in claim 31, wherein said pad conditioning force is applied against said front surface of said retaining ring and said front surface of said retaining ring presents a first angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said pad, and by presenting a second angle of substantially 70 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said pad. 42. An article of manufacture wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer planarized according to the method of claim 34. 43. In a semiconductor wafer polishing machine, a method for conditioning an external polishing pad during polishing of a substrate comprising steps of: contacting a lower surface of a substrate retaining ring with an external polishing pad during polishing; forming a pocket for maintaining said substrate during polishing with an inner cylindrical surface and a carrier mounting surface periphery, said inner cylindrical surface disposed adjacent to an outer circumferential surface of said carrier and the periphery of a substrate mounting surface of said carrier; and contacting said pad with a pad conditioning member disposed at the lower outer radial portion of said substrate retaining ring where said retaining ring contacts said pad during polishing and defining a shape profile transitioning between a first planar surface substantially parallel to a plane of said polishing pad and a second planar surface substantially perpendicular to said polishing pad. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein said pad conditioning member is contacted to said pad by presenting an angle substantially between 15 degrees and substantially 25 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal plane of said polishing pad. 45. In a polishing apparatus having a housing attached to a shaft about which a substrate rotates during polishing, a method of polishing said substrate including: flexibly attaching a substrate support subcarrier to said shaft via said housing permitting said subcarrier to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said shaft; supporting a back-side surface of said substrate with said substrate support subcarrier; applying a polishing force against said support subcarrier to press a front surface of said substrate against a polishing pad; flexibly attaching a retaining ring to said subcarrier and via said subcarrier to said housing and said shaft permitting said retaining ring to translate in at least one dimension and tilt about an axis relative to said shaft and relative to said subcarrier; restraining movement of said substrate from said support subcarrier during polishing with said retaining ring circumferentially disposed around a portion of said subcarrier and said substrate; and applying a pad conditioning force against said retaining ring to press a front surface of said retaining ring against said polishing pad; said translation and tilt of said subcarrier being coupled to a predetermined extent with said translation and tilt of said retaining ring. 46. The method in claim 45, wherein said pad conditioning force is applied against said front surface of said retaining ring and said front surface of said retaining ring presents a first angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said pad, and by presenting a second angle of substantially 70 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said pad. 47. An article of manufacture wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer polished according to the method of claim 45. 48. An article of manufacture wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer planarized according to the method of claim 45. 49. An article of manufacture wherein said substrate comprises a glass substrate planarized according to the method of claim 45. 50. An article of manufacture wherein said substrate comprises a glass substrate for a Liquid Crystal Panel Display planarized according to the method of claim 45. 51. A substrate retaining ring for retaining a substrate against a tool during a substrate material removal processing operation, said retaining ring comprising: a first substantially planar surface substantially parallel to a plane of said tool for contacting said tool during said substrate material removal processing operation; a cylindrical surface forming a pocket in said first surface for maintaining said substrate in a position relative to said first surface during said processing operation; and a tool conditioning member disposed proximate an outer peripheral portion of said first surface defining a shape profile transitioning between said first substantially planar surface and a second planar surface substantially perpendicular to a plane of said tool. 52. The substrate retaining ring of claim 51, wherein said substrate comprises a semiconductor wafer and said tool comprises a wafer polishing pad. 53. The substrate retaining ring of claim 51, wherein said, substrate comprises a glass substrate and said tool comprises a polishing pad. 54. The substrate retaining ring of claim 51, wherein said substrate comprises a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) glass substrate and said tool comprises a polishing pad. 55. The substrate retaining ring of claim 51, wherein said substrate material removal operation comprises a Liquid Crystal Display polishing operation. 56. The substrate retaining ring of claim 51, wherein said tool conditioning member is characterized by presenting an angle between substantially 15 degrees and substantially 25 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said tool. 57. The substrate retaining ring of claim 51, wherein said tool conditioning member is characterized by presenting a first angle substantially 20 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said tool, and by presenting a second angle of substantially 70 degrees out of parallel with respect to the nominal planer surface of said tool. 58. The substrate retaining ring of claim 52, wherein said substrate material removal operation comprises a semiconductor wafer polishing operation. 59. The substrate retaining ring of claim 52, wherein said substrate material removal operation comprises a semiconductor wafer planarization operation. 60. The substrate retaining ring of claim 55, wherein said substrate material removal operation comprises a Liquid Crystal Display planarization operation. 