The present invention discloses methods and apparatus for use in a mass memory data storage system. The present invention includes a gripper assembly having a roller-inserter, which permits contact with a data cartridge to be retrieved from or archived in said data storage system. The present invention also includes methods to inventory cartridges in said data storage system using the roller-inserter to provide for a contact method of inventory. The present invention also provides for teach-mode probe functions and real-time cartridge position locators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use in archival and retrieval of data cartridges to and from a storage library, said storage library comprising a plurality of storage bins in which said data cartridges are maintained, comprising: a carriage assembly positioned adjacent to said storage bins and selectively movable between said storage bins to position said carriage assembly adjacent to a desired one of said storage bins; first and second finger members supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith, said first and second finger members being configured with at least one of said first and second finger members selectively movable relative to the other to selectively grip and release a desired one of said data cartridges therebetween, said first finger member disposed in opposing relation to said second finger member to grip said desired one of said data cartridges therebetween when said at least one of said first and second finger members is moved toward the other; a first motive source operatively connected to said at least one of said first and second finger members to move said at least one of said first and second finger members relative to the other to selectively grip or release said desired one of said data cartridges therebetween; a roller-inserter supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith and in position to contact said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned, said roller-inserter being located between said first and second finger members, said roller-inserter being movably mounted to move toward said carriage assembly in response to contact with said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned; and at least one sensor supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith and in position to sense contact of said roller-inserter with said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second finger members are held in spaced apart relation at least in part by at least one spring member. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a base assembly adapted to receive and support said carriage assembly, said base assembly being selectively movable to selectively move said carriage assembly between said storage bins. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one sensor comprises a plurality of sensors located on said carriage assembly and positioned to sense movement of said roller-inserter toward said carriage assembly when in contact with one of said data cartridges and to provide position information on said roller-inserter. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second sensor supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith and in position to determine an identification code of said data cartridge contacted by said roller-inverter in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said second sensor comprises a bar code reader. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a flag located proximate to said roller-inserter, said at least one sensor configured to sense position information of said roller-inserter, said flag being indicative of said position information of said roller-inserter. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one sensor is configured to sense position information of said roller-inserter, and said roller-inserter has a flag attached thereto and located in view of said at least one first sensor, said flag being indicative of said position information. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said roller-inserter comprises a concave shape. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said roller-inserter is rollably supported on at least one member extending from said carriage assembly toward said storage bins, said extending member being movable toward said carriage assembly in response to contract of said roller-inserter with said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising at least one spring biasing said extending member to a position holding said roller-inserter away from said carriage assembly. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motor to provide power to move said carriage assembly between said storage bins. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one sensor further senses movement of said roller-inserter toward said carriage assembly when in contact with said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one sensor provides position information on the position to which said roller-inserter moves toward said carriage assembly when said roller-inserter is moved into contact with said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a memory unit to store said position information. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a controller. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said roller-inserter is located between said first and second finger members in position such that when said at least one sensor senses contact of said roller-inserter with said data cartridge in said desired one of said storage bins adjacent to which said carriage assembly is positioned, said data cartridge is positioned between said first and second finger members in position to be gripped therebetween. 18. An apparatus for use in archival and retrieval of data cartridges to and from a storage library, said storage library comprising a plurality of storage bins in which said data cartridges are maintained, comprising: a carriage assembly movable between said storage bins to selectively position said carriage assembly adjacent to selected ones of said storage bins; first and second finger members supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith, said first and second finger members being configured with at least one of said first and second finger members selectively movable relative to the other to selectively grip and release a desired one of said data cartridges therebetween, said first finger member disposed in opposing relation to said second finger member to grip said desired one of said data cartridges therebetween when said at least one of said first and second finger members is moved toward the other; a first motive source operatively connected to said at least one of said first and second finger members to move said at least one of said first and second finger members relative to the other to selectively grip or release said desired one of said data cartridges therebetween; a cartridge contract member supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith and in position to contact said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved, said cartridge contact member being located adjacent to at least one of said first and second finger members, said cartridge contact member being movably mounted to move toward said carriage assembly in response to contact with said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved; and at least one sensor supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith and in position to sense contact of said cartridge contact member with said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a base assembly adapted to receive and support said carriage assembly, said base assembly being selectively movable to selectively move said carriage assembly between said storage bins. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said at least one sensor comprises a plurality of sensors located on said carriage assembly and positioned to sense movement of said cartridge contact member toward said carriage assembly when in contact with one of said data cartridges and to provide position information on said cartridge contact member. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a second sensor supported by said carriage assembly for movement therewith and in position to determine identification codes of said data cartridges contacted by said cartridge contact member in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said second sensor comprises a bar code reader. 23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said cartridge contact member includes a rollable member which contacts said data cartridges, and said rollable member is supported toward a distal end portion of at least one member extending from said carriage assembly toward said storage bins, said extending member being movable toward said carriage assembly in response to contract of said rollable member with said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, further comprising at least one spring biasing said extending member to a position holding said rollable member spaced away from said carriage assembly. 25. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said at least one sensor further senses movement of said cartridge contact member toward said carriage assembly when in contact with said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved. 26. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said at least one sensor provides position information on the position to which said cartridge contact member moves toward said carriage assembly when said cartridge contact member is moved into contact with said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved. 27. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said cartridge contract member is located between said first and second finger members in position such that when said at least one sensor senses contact of said cartridge contact member with said data cartridges in said storage bins to which said carriage assembly is moved, said data cartridge is positioned between said first and second finger members in position to be gripped therebetween. 