A hidden storage system incorporated in the bed of a vehicle without altering the bed's external appearance or various contours thereof, and without revealing the storage system by assembly of modules containing various individual components. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close fender/side panel sections of the bed, either upwardly, downwardly or sideways. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage system may be incorporated into the bed of various side panel configurations without detracting from the appearance of the side panels configurations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A truck bed having a hidden storage therein and constructed of modular assemblies, comprising: a floor assembly, a bulkhead assembly attached to said floor assembly, a tailgate assembly operatively connected to at least said floor assembly, a pair of vertically extending support assemblies mounted to at least said floor assembly, and a pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies mounted to at least said vertically extending support assemblies, each of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies forming a hidden storage section and an external side panel section of said truck bed, each external side panel section of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies including at least one hinged side panel section. 2. The truck bed of claim 1, wherein each of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies include a wheel well. 3. The truck bed of claim 1, additionally including a mechanism for at least retaining said at least one hinged side panel section closed, said mechanism being selected from the group consisting of electrical mechanisms and mechanical mechanisms. 4. The truck bed of claim 1 wherein said side hidden storage/panel assemblies each include a rail member extending along a length of each of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies, said at least one hinged side panel section being hinged to said rail member. 5. The truck bed of claim 1, wherein at least one of said pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies includes a fuel filler assembly. 6. A truck bed having a hidden storage therein and constructed of modular assemblies, comprising: a floor assembly, a bulkhead assembly attached to said floor assembly, a tailgate assembly operatively connected to at least said floor assembly, a pair of vertically extending support assemblies mounted to at least said floor assembly, and a pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies mounted to at least said vertically extending support assemblies, each of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies including at least one hinged side panel section, said pair of vertically extending support assemblies comprising a pair of post assemblies mounted to rear corner sections of said floor assembly, each said side hidden storage/panel assembly being mounted to a post assembly and to said bulkhead assembly. 7. The truck bed of claim 6, additionally including a collapsible support assembly mounted under said floor assembly. 8. The truck bed of claim 7, wherein said collapsible support assembly comprises a plurality of collapsible beams, each of said collapsible beams including end sections extending into said pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies. 9. A truck bed having a hidden storage therein and constructed of modular assemblies, comprising: a floor assembly, a bulkhead assembly attached to said floor assembly, a tailgate assembly operatively connected to at least said floor assembly, a pair of vertically extending support assemblies mounted to at least said floor assembly, and a pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies mounted to at least said vertically extending support assemblies, each of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies including at least one hinged side panel section, each of said pair of vertically extending support assemblies comprising an interior wall assembly for each of said side hidden storage/panel assemblies, each of said interior wall assemblies being mounted to said floor assembly and mounted to said bulkhead assembly, said side hidden storage/panel assemblies being mounted to at least said interior wall assemblies. 10. The truck bed of claim 9, wherein said side hidden storage/panel assembly includes a hidden storage section, said at least one hinged side panel section being hinged to cover said hidden storage section. 11. The truck bed of claim 10, wherein said hinged side panel section includes a taillight assembly. 12. The truck bed of claim 11, wherein said hinged side panel section is composed of a single hinged assembly. 13. The truck bed of claim 12, additionally including at least one strut assembly for retaining said single hinged assembly in an open position. 14. The truck bed of claim 10, wherein said hidden storage section includes a wheel well section, and a pair of pocket assemblies located fore and aft of said wheel well section. 15. The truck bed of claim 10, wherein said hidden storage section includes at least one shelf/compartment. 16. The truck bed of claim 15, wherein said at least one shelf/compartment includes a sliding shelf. 17. The truck bed of claim 10, wherein said hidden storage section includes a plurality of separate compartments. 18. The truck bed of claim 10, wherein said side panel section includes a plurality of hinged sections, each hinged section being hinged to said hidden storage section. 19. The truck bed of claim 10, wherein said hinged side panel section includes on an inner surface thereof a storage pocket. 20. A truck bed having a hidden storage therein and constructed of modular assemblies, comprising: a floor assembly, a bulkhead assembly attached to said floor assembly, a tailgate assembly operatively connected to at least said floor assembly, a pair of vertically extending support assemblies mounted to at least said floor assembly, and a pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies mounted to at least said vertically extending support assemblies, each of said side hidden storage panel assemblies including at least one hinged side panel section, each of said pair of vertically extending support assemblies comprising a vertical support member mounted to a rear corner of said floor assembly, and a frame assembly mounted to said vertical support member and mounted to at least said bulkhead assembly, each of said pair of side hidden storage/panel assemblies being mounted to one of said frame assemblies. 21. The truck bed of claim 20, wherein said floor assembly includes a plurality of support members extending thereacross, and wherein said frame assembly includes a horizontally extending member, and wherein said horizontally extending member is secured to said plurality of support members of said floor assembly. 22. The truck bed of claim 20, wherein each said frame assembly includes a pair of vertical members and a pair of spaced horizontal members mounted to said vertical members. 