A storage unit includes a housing with a storage chamber, a carrier disposed inside the chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined array, and an access port on the housing for enabling access to the chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from the carrier. The access port includes an opening in the housing and a plug member removably located in the opening. The carrier is provided with a seat for receiving the plug member during an access operation, so that the plug member is located in the chamber during the access operation. A drive is operatively connected to the carrier for moving the carrier in the chamber to juxtapose different specimens to the access port. An insertion and removal mechanism is coupled to the housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from the chamber via the access port during the access operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage unit comprising: a housing defining a storage chamber, said housing having a sidewall; a carrier disposed inside said chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined cylindrical array; a drive operatively connected to said carrier for rotating said carrier about a vertical axis; an access port on said sidewall for enabling lateral access to said chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from said carrier, said access port including an elongate vertically extending slot in said sidewall and further including an elongate plug member removably located in said slot, said slot being substantially coextensive with said carrier in a vertical direction; and an insertion and removal mechanism coupled to said housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from said chamber via said access port. 2. The storage unit defined in claim 1 wherein said carrier is provided with a seat for receiving said plug member during an access operation, so that said plug member is located in said chamber during said access operation. 3. The storage unit defined in claim 2 wherein said plug member and said insertion and removal mechanism have cooperating elements for enabling said insertion and removal mechanism to move said plug member from said slot radially inwardly into said seat prior to an access operation and for enabling said insertion and removal mechanism to move said plug member from said seat radially outwardly into said slot after said access operation. 4. The storage unit defined in claim 3 wherein said carrier includes a drum and a cylinder coaxially surrounding and spaced from said drum, said cylinder being provided with an array of horizontally and radially extending openings for receiving respective ones of said specimens. 5. The storage unit defined in claim 4 wherein said housing is provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said drum and said cylinder being made of a heat conductive material for facilitating a low-temperature storage of said specimens. 6. The storage unit defined in claim 5 wherein said slot is substantially coextensive with said carrier in a vertical direction. 7. The storage unit defined in claim 3 wherein said cooperating elements include a suction applicator on said insertion and removal mechanism. 8. The storage unit defined in claim 1 wherein said sidewall is provided with a retainer for cooperating with said plug member to hold said plug member in said slot. 9. The storage unit defined in claim 8 wherein said retainer is magnetic, said plug member being provided with magnetic elements. 10. The storage unit defined in claim 1 wherein said housing is provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said plug member having a fit in said slot enabling pressure release. 11. The storage unit defined in claim 1 wherein said carrier includes a drum and a cylinder coaxially surrounding and spaced from said drum, said cylinder being provided with an array of horizontally and radially extending openings for receiving respective ones of said specimens. 12. The storage unit defined in claim 11 wherein said housing is provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said drum and said cylinder being made of a heat conductive material for facilitating a low-temperature storage of said specimens. 13. The storage unit defined in claim 1 wherein said insertion and retrieval mechanism includes a suction applicator. 14. The storage unit defined in claim 1 wherein said chamber is cylindrical and said specimens are disposed in said chamber radially relative to said axis. 15. The storage unit defined in claim 1, further comprising a computer operatively connected to said insertion and removal mechanism for automatically tracking the locations of specimens in said housing and for controlling the insertion and removal of specimens from said chamber. 16. A storage unit comprising: a housing defining a storage chamber; a carrier movably disposed inside said chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined array; an access port on said housing for enabling access to said chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from said carrier, said access port including an opening in said housing and a plug member removably located in said opening, said carrier being provided with a seat for receiving said plug member during an access operation, so that said plug member is located in said chamber during said access operation; a drive operatively connected to said carrier for moving said carrier in said chamber to juxtapose different specimens to said access port; and an insertion and removal mechanism coupled to said housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from said chamber via said access port during said access operation. 17. The storage unit defined in claim 16 wherein said plug member and said insertion and removal mechanism have cooperating elements for enabling said insertion and removal mechanism to move said plug member from said opening radially inwardly into said seat prior to said access operation and for enabling said insertion and removal mechanism to move said plug member from said seat radially outwardly into said opening after said access operation. 18. The storage unit defined in claim 17 wherein said carrier includes a drum and a cylinder coaxially surrounding and spaced from said drum, said drive being connected to said drum and said cylinder for rotating said drum and said cylinder about a vertical axis, said cylinder being provided with an array of horizontally and radially extending openings for receiving respective ones of said specimens. 19. The storage unit defined in claim 18 wherein said housing is provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said drum and said cylinder being made of a heat conductive material for facilitating a low-temperature storage of said specimens. 20. The storage unit defined in claim 17 wherein said cooperating elements include a suction applicator on said insertion and removal mechanism. 21. The storage unit defined in claim 16 wherein said housing is provided with a retainer for cooperating with said plug member to hold said plug member in said opening. 22. The storage unit defined in claim 16 wherein said housing is provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said plug member having a fit in said slot enabling pressure release. 23. The storage unit defined in claim 16 wherein said carrier includes a drum and a cylinder coaxially surrounding and spaced from said drum, said cylinder being provided with an array of horizontally and radially extending openings for receiving respective ones of said specimens. 24. The storage unit defined in claim 23 wherein said housing is provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said drum and said cylinder being made of a heat conductive material for facilitating a low-temperature storage of said specimens. 25. The storage unit defined in claim 16 wherein said insertion and retrieval mechanism includes a suction applicator. 26. The storage unit defined in claim 16 wherein said chamber is cylindrical and said specimens are horizontally disposed in said chamber. 27. The storage unit defined in claim 16, further comprising cooling means for maintaining said chamber at a predetermined low temperature. 28. The storage unit defined in claim 16, further comprising a computer operatively connected to said insertion and retrieval mechanism for automatically tracking the locations of specimens in said housing and for controlling the insertion and removal of specimens from said chamber. 29. A method for storing a multitude of samples, comprising: providing a storage unit having a housing defining a storage chamber and further having a carrier disposed inside a chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined array; shifting a plug member inwardly into said chamber and away from said opening; moving said carrier to dispose a specimen receiving location on said carrier adjacent to said opening; inserting a specimen through said opening to said location on said carrier; depositing said specimen at said location on said carrier; after the depositing of said specimen, relocating said plug member back to said opening; and after relocating said plug member back to said opening, shifting said plug member outwardly into said opening to thereby close the opening. 30. The method defined in claim 29 wherein the shifting of said plug member inwardly into said chamber and away from said opening includes shifting said plug member into a seat on said carrier and further includes moving said carrier to relocate the shifted plug member away from said opening, the relocating of said plug member including again moving said carrier to relocate said plug member back to said opening and to simultaneously transfer the deposited specimen away from said opening. 31. The method defined in claim 29 wherein the shifting of said plug member includes operating an insertion and retrieval mechanism, the inserting and depositing of said specimen also including the operating of said insertion and retrieval mechanism. 32. The method defined in claim 29 wherein the shifting of said plug member includes operating a suction device. 33. The method defined in claim 29 wherein the inserting of said specimen includes operating a suction device. 34. The method defined in claim 29 wherein said carrier is rotatably mounted to said housing for rotation about a vertical axis, said location being one of a multiplicity of locations disposed in a cylindrical array on said carrier, the moving of said carrier including rotating said carrier about said axis. 35. The method defined in claim 29, further comprising cooling said chamber to a low temperature. 36. The method defined in claim 29, further comprising operating a computer to automatically track the locations of specimens in said housing and for controlling the insertion and removal of specimens from said chamber. 37. A storage unit comprising: a housing defining a storage chamber, said housing having a sidewall; a carrier disposed inside said chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined cylindrical array; a drive operatively connected to said carrier for rotating said carrier about a vertical axis; an access port on said sidewall for enabling lateral access to said chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from said carrier, said access port including an opening in said sidewall and further including a plug member removably located in said opening, said sidewall being provided with a magnetic retainer for cooperating with said plug member to hold said plug member in said opening, said plug member being provided with magnetic elements; and an insertion and removal mechanism coupled to said housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from said chamber via said access port. 38. A storage unit comprising: a housing defining a storage chamber, said housing having a sidewall, said housing being provided with a sump for holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid; a carrier disposed inside said chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined cylindrical array; a drive operatively connected to said carrier for rotating said carrier about a vertical axis; an access port on said sidewall for enabling lateral access to said chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from said carrier, said access port including an opening in said sidewall and further including a plug member removably located in said opening, said plug member having a fit in said opening enabling pressure release; and an insertion and removal mechanism coupled to said housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from said chamber via said access port. 39. A storage unit comprising: a dewar-type housing defining a storage chamber, said housing having a dewar-type sidewall; a carrier rotatably disposed inside said chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined cylindrical array; a drive operatively connected to said carrier for rotating said carrier about a vertical axis; an access port penetrating through said sidewall for enabling lateral access to said chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from said carrier; and an insertion and removal mechanism coupled to said housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from said chamber via said access port. 40. The storage unit defined in claim 39 wherein said access port includes an elongate vertically extending slot in said sidewall and further includes an elongate plug member removably located in said slot. 41. The storage unit defined in claim 39 wherein said sidewall is provided with retainer for cooperating with said plug member to hold said plug member in said slot. 42. The storage unit defined in claim 41 wherein said retainer is magnetic, said plug member being provided with magnetic elements. 43. A storage unit comprising: a dewar-type housing defining a storage chamber, said housing having a dewar-type sidewall; a carrier disposed inside said chamber for supporting a plurality of specimens in a predetermined cylindrical array; an access port penetrating through said sidewall for enabling lateral access to said chamber for insertion and retrieval of specimens from said carrier; an insertion and removal mechanism coupled to said housing for alternately inserting and removing specimens from said chamber via said access port; and a sump in said housing holding a supply of a low-temperature liquid, said carrier being spaced from said liquid in said sump. 