A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber used in a cluster-type wafer processing system by utilizing an additional degas chamber and by the execution of an additional degas operation is provided. In the method, a degas chamber which is equipped with a purge gas inlet and a purge gas outlet directed at a wafer surface positioned in the degas chamber is used. The wafer is degassed by a purge gas of N.sub.2, O.sub.2 or any other suitable gas prior to being transferred back to a load-lock chamber. A suitable purge gas flow rate between about 100 sccm and about 5,000 sccm is used to effectively purge away undesirable, residual process gas from the surface of a wafer. In an alternate embodiment, the purge gas of N.sub.2 or O.sub.2 may be preheated to at least 30.degree. C. to improve the efficiency of purging. In another alternate embodiment, the wafer itself may be heated in the degas chamber to a temperature of between about 100.degree. C. and about 250.degree. C. during the degassing operation such that undesirable residual corrosive gas may be more efficiently removed in a shorter time period.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system comprising the steps of: removing a wafer after processed by a corrosive gas from a process chamber, positioning said wafer having residual corrosive gas on a top surface in a degas chamber, flowing a purge gas into said degas chamber at a flow rate sufficient to remove said residual corrosive gas on said wafer, and transferring said wafer from said degas chamber to said load-lock chamber. 2. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising the step of removing said wafer after processed in an etch chamber. 3. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising the step of removing said wafer after a polysilicon etching process. 4. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising the step of etching said wafer by an etchant gas comprises at least one gas selected from the group consisting of Cl.sub.2 and F prior to said wafer removal step. 5. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising the step of etching alignment marks in a polysilicon layer by Cl.sub.2 prior to said step of removing the wafer after processed by a corrosive gas. 6. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising the step of mounting said degas chamber to said cluster-type wafer fabrication system juxtaposed to a load-lock chamber prior to the step of positioning said wafer in a degas chamber. 7. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1 further comprising the step of equipping said degas chamber with a gas flow control apparatus for producing a gas flow rate between about 10 sccm and about 5,000 sccm. 8. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas used is N.sub.2. 9. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas is N.sub.2 for flowing over said top surface of the wafer at a flow rate between about 100 sccm and about 1,000 sccm. 10. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas is N.sub.2 for flowing over said top surface of the wafer at a flow rate of about 750 sccm for about 30 seconds. 11. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas is heated N.sub.2 at a temperature of at least 30.degree. C. 12. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas is O.sub.2. 13. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas is O.sub.2 for flowing over said top surface of the wafer at a flow rate between about 100 sccm and about 5,000 sccm. 14. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber incorporated in a cluster-type wafer fabrication system according to claim 1, wherein said purge gas is at least one gas selected from the group consisting of N.sub.2, He, Ar and O.sub.2. 15. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process comprising the steps of: providing a cluster-type wafer fabrication system for wafer processing which includes an etch chamber, a degas chamber and a load-lock chamber, conducting an etching process on a wafer in said etch chamber utilizing a corrosive etching gas, removing said wafer having residual corrosive gas on top out of said etch chamber, positioning said wafer in said degas chamber equipped with a purge gas inlet, flowing a purge gas through said purge gas inlet of said degas chamber over the top of said wafer for a sufficient length of time such that substantially all the residual corrosive gas is removed, and transferring said wafer from said degas chamber to said load-lock chamber. 16. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15 further comprising the step of etching alignment marks in a polysilicon layer on said wafer. 17. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15 further comprising the step of etching said wafer by an etchant gas of Cl.sub.2 or F. 18. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15, wherein said cluster fabrication system further comprising at least one deposition chamber. 19. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15 further comprising the step of flowing said purge gas over the top of said wafer at a flow rate sufficient for removing substantially all the residual corrosive gas on said wafer. 20. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15 further comprising the step of flowing a purge gas of N.sub.2 into said degas chamber at a flow rate between about 100 sccm and about 1,000 sccm. 21. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15, wherein said sufficient length of time for flowing said purge gas over the top of said wafer is about 30 seconds when a flow rate for said purge gas is between about 500 sccm and about 1,000 sccm. 22. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15 further comprising the step of flowing a purge gas of O.sub.2 into said degas chamber at a flow rate between about 100 sccm and about 5,000 sccm. 23. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15, wherein said purge gas is at least one gas selected from the group consisting of N.sub.2, He, Ar and O.sub.2. 24. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15, wherein said purge gas is heated to a temperature of at least 30.degree. C. 25. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15, wherein said wafer when positioned in said degas chamber is heated to a temperature of not less than 100.degree. C. 26. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15, wherein said wafer when positioned in said degas chamber is heated to a temperature between about 100.degree. C. and about 250.degree. C. 27. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 26 further comprising the step of transferring said wafer from said degas chamber to a cool-down chamber prior to said transferring step to said load-lock chamber. 28. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 15 further comprising the step of providing a purge gas outlet in fluid communication with said purge gas inlet positioned in said degas chamber. 29. A method for preventing corrosion in a load-lock chamber after a wafer etching process according to claim 28 further comprising the step of positioning said purge gas outlet at a distance from the top of the wafer of not more than 5 cm. 