The present invention measures the usage level of removable media devices using residency time. In one embodiment, a usage level measurement software facility receives a number of data storage medium access requests. For reach received request, the facility performs a number of steps. The facility first assigns the request to a particular one of the removable media devices. Then, under the control of the assigned removable media device, the data storage medium access request is performed. For each performed request, the facility records a residency time. The residency time reflects the amount of time taken by the assigned removable media device to perform the request. The facility aggregates the recorded residency times to produce a measure of the collective usage level of the plurality of removable media devices.
Claims I claim: 1. A computer-readable medium whose contents cause a computer system to forecast resource requirements for a group of removable media devices of a computer system by performing the steps of: collecting residency time data for the removable media devices; based upon the collected residency time data, calculating the maximum utilization of the removable media devices for a predetermined foregoing interval of time; and based upon the calculated maximum utilization of the removable media devices for the predetermined foregoing interval of time, generating a model of future maximum residency time usable to forecast resource requirements for the group of removable media devices. 2. The computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the group of removable media devices is an array of digital tape data cartridge drives. 3. The computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the collecting step includes the steps of: receiving removable media access requests; and for each received removable media access request: assigning the removable media access request to a particular one of the tape drives; under the control of the tape drive to which the data storage medium access request is assigned, performing the removable media access request; and recording a residency time reflecting the amount of time taken by the tape drive to perform the removable media access request. 4. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of reading data from a removable media mounted on the tape drive to which the data storage medium access request is assigned. 5. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of writing data to a removable media mounted on the tape drive to which the data storage medium access request is assigned. 6. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the amount of time for which performing the removable media access request makes the tape drive unavailable for performing new removable media access requests. 7. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the amount of time for which the removable media access request is assigned to the tape drive. 8. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time the removable media access request is received. 9. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time at which the removable media access request is assigned to a tape drive. 10. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of transferring a removable media identified in the removable media access request to the tape drive to which the removable media access request is assigned, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time at which the removable media identified in the received removable media access request is transferred to the tape drive. 11. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, transferring the removable media identified in the received removable media access request from the tape drive to which the removable media access request is assigned to a storage location, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period ending at the time at which the removable media identified in the received removable media access request is transferred to the storage location. 12. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, transferring the removable media identified in the received removable media access request from the tape drive to which the removable media access request is assigned to a storage location, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time at which the removable media access request is received and ending at a time at which the removable media identified in the received removable media access request is transferred to the storage location. 13. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, under the control of a cartridge transfer mechanism, transferring the unit of the removable media identified in the received removable media access request from the tape drive to which the removable media access request is assigned to a storage location, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period ending at the time at which the cartridge transfer mechanism becomes available after transferring the removable media identified in the received removable media access request to the storage location. 14. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, transferring the removable media identified in the received removable media access request from the tape drive to which the removable media access request is assigned to a storage location, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable media access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period ending at the time at which the removable media identified in the received removable media access request is removed from the tape drive to which the removable media access request is assigned during the performance of the transferring step. 15. The computer-readable medium of claim 3 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: extrapolating the measure of the usage level of the plurality of tape drives produced by aggregating the recorded residency times to produce a forecast of future demand for tape drive capacity. 16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: comparing the forecast of future demand produced in the extrapolating step of a measure of present tape drive capacity to determine whether expansion of tape drive capacity is indicated. 17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising the step of, where the comparing step determines that expansion of tape drive capacity is indicated, triggering a predictive acquisition to meet the forecasted future demand. 18. A method for forecasting resource requirements for removable media devices of a computer system, comprising the steps of: collecting residency time data for the removable media devices of a computer system; based upon the collected residency time data, calculating a maximum utilization of the removable media devices for a predetermined foregoing interval of time; and based upon the calculated maximum utilization of the removable media devices for the predetermined foregoing interval of time, generating a model of future maximum residency time usable to forecast resource requirements for the removable media devices. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the collecting step includes the steps of: receiving data storage medium access requests; and for each received data storage medium access request: delegating the data storage medium access request to a particular one of the data storage medium access devices; under the control of the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is delegated, performing the data storage medium access request; and recording a residency time reflecting the amount of time taken by the removable media device to perform the data storage medium access request. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of reading data from a removable medium mounted on the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is assigned. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of writing data to a removable media mounted on the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is assigned. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the amount of time for which performing the data storage medium access request makes the removable media device unavailable for performing new data storage medium access requests. 23. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the amount of time for which the data storage medium access request is delegated to the removable media device. 24. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time the data storage medium access request is received. 25. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time at which the data storage medium access request is delegated to a removable media device. 26. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of conveying a unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request to the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is delegated, the method further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time at which the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request is conveyed to the removable media device. 27. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, conveying the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request from the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is delegated to a storage location, the method further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period ending at the time at which the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request is conveyed to the storage location. 28. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, transferring the removable medium identified in the received removable medium access request from the tape drive to which the removable medium access request is assigned to a storage location, and wherein the contents of the computer-readable medium further cause the computer system to perform the step of: for each received removable medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period beginning at the time at which the removable medium access request is received and ending at a time at which the removable medium identified in the received removable medium access request is transferred to the storage location. 29. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, under the control of a conveyance mechanism, conveying the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request from the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is delegated to a storage location, the method further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period ending at the time at which the conveyance mechanism becomes available after conveying the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request to the storage location. 30. The method of claim 19 wherein the performing step includes the step of, when accessing is complete, conveying the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request from the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is delegated to a storage location, the method further comprising the step of: for each received data storage medium access request: determining the residency time by determining the length of a period ending at the time at which the unit of the data storage medium identified in the received data storage medium access request is removed from the removable media device to which the data storage medium access request is delegated during the performance of the conveying step. 31. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of: extrapolating the measure of the usage level of the plurality of removable media devices produced by aggregating the recorded residency times to produce a forecast of future demand for removable media device capacity. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of: comparing the forecast of future demand produced in the extrapolating step of a measure of present removable media device capacity to determine whether expansion of removable media device capacity is indicated. 33. The method of claim 31, further comprising the step of, where the comparing step determines that expansion of tape drive capacity is indicated, triggering a predictive acquisition to meet the forecasted future demand. 34. An apparatus for performing a measured level of data storage medium access service, comprising: a plurality of removable media devices each for accessing a mounted unit of a data storage medium, each removable media device capable of being either in service and capable of accessing a mounted unit of the data storage medium or out of service and incapable of accessing a mounted unit of the data storage medium; a mounting subsystem for mounting particular units of the data storage medium on particular removable media devices; a control unit for receiving data storage medium access requests, directing each received data storage medium access request to a particular available removable media device, and causing the mounting subsystem to mount a unit of the data storage medium specified in each received data storage medium access request on the removable media device to which the received data storage medium access request was directed; a service demand measurement subsystem that measures the level of data storage medium access service demanded of the plurality of removable media devices by determining the total amount of time that each removable media device is in service but unavailable to perform new data storage medium access requests; and a demand forecasting subsystem for extrapolating the level of service measured by the service measurement subsystem to produce a forecast of future demand for removable media device capacity. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein the plurality of removable media devices is an array of digital tape drives. 