An apparatus and method are provided for manufacturing articles, such as syringe barrels, substantially free from contaminants. The apparatus is an enclosure defining at least a class 100 and MCB-3 environment, and includes a molding isolation module and a packaging isolation module. Any contaminants that may exist within the enclosure are removed by the use of horizontal and vertical laminar airflows directed into air filter units. Further, the molding temperature may be selected such that it renders the fabricated articles substantially free from contaminants. The molding isolation module and packaging isolation module keep the fabricated articles substantially free from contaminants from the time the articles are molded to the time the articles are placed in sealed containers for shipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing syringe components, comprising: providing an enclosure defining a substantially sterile environment, the enclosure communicating with an outside environment by means of at least one air filter operable to prevent contaminants from entering the enclosure; providing at least one mold inside the enclosure at a molding station; providing molding material from which to mold the syringe components; heating the molding material; placing the heated molding material within the at least one mold; molding a plurality of one or more syringe components from the molding material using the at least one mold, the heat generated during one or more of said heating and molding steps operable to render the molded syringe components substantially free from contaminants; forcing air from the outside environment through the enclosure through the at least one air filter to prevent contaminants from adhering to the molded syringe components; removing the molded syringe components from the at least one mold; inspecting the molded syringe components in the enclosure for defects; assembling the molded syringe components in the enclosure to form one or more syringes; filling the one or more syringes in the enclosure with a fluid; and packaging the one or more syringes in at least one sealed package. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the enclosure comprises at least a Class 100 environment. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the enclosure comprises at least a MCB-3 environment. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the components are molded out of plastic. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing molding material to the mold through a gate in the enclosure. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering incoming air flowing into the molding station using the at least one air filter; and creating a horizontal laminar airflow through the molding station to prevent settling of contaminants. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using a robot disposed within the molding station to pick molded components from the mold; using the robot to deposit the components on a conveyor within the enclosure; and conveying the components to an inspection station within the enclosure. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using a mechanical arm disposed within the molding station to pick molded components from the molds; using the mechanical arm to deposit the components on a conveyor within the enclosure; and conveying the components to an inspection station within the enclosure. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering incoming air entering an inspection station within the enclosure using the at least one filter; and creating a vertical laminar airflow in the inspection station to prevent the settling of contaminants. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering incoming air entering a packaging station within the enclosure using the at least one filter; and creating a vertical laminar airflow in the packaging station to prevent settling of contaminants. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a sidewall of the enclosure with a transparent panel; and inspecting the components from outside of the enclosure. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said step of inspecting comprises inserting hands and arms of an inspector into the enclosure to remove scrap from the components and to reject defective ones of the components. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of packaging comprises: providing a sidewall of the enclosure at a packaging station with a transparent panel; and inserting hands of a packager into the enclosure to perform a packaging operation. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of packaging comprises: enclosing a plurality of the syringes in a first container; sealing the first container; enclosing the sealed first container in a second container; and sealing the second container. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a perforated work surface inside the enclosure for said step of packaging; and directing laminar vertical airflow downwardly to pass through the perforations in the work surface. 16. A method of manufacturing syringe components, comprising: providing an enclosure containing a sterilizing gas; providing at least one mold inside the enclosure at a molding station; providing molding material from which to mold the syringe components; heating the molding material; placing the heated molding material within the at least one mold; molding a plurality of one or more syringe components from the molding material using the at least one mold, the heat generated during one or more of said heating and molding steps operable to render the molded syringe components substantially free from contaminants; removing the molded syringe components from the at least one mold; inspecting the molded syringe components in the enclosure for defects; assembling the molded syringe components in the enclosure to form one or more syringes; filling the one or more syringes in the enclosure with a fluid; and packaging the one or more syringes in at least one sealed package. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: providing a sidewall of the enclosure with a transparent panel; and inspecting the components from outside of the enclosure. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said step of inspecting comprises inserting hands and arms of an inspector into the enclosure to remove scrap from the components and to reject defective ones of the components. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of packaging comprises: providing a sidewall of the enclosure at a packaging station with a transparent panel; and inserting hands of a packager into the enclosure to perform a packaging operation. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of packaging comprises: enclosing a plurality of the syringes in a first container; sealing the first container; enclosing the sealed first container in a second container; and sealing the second container. 