A robot-based gauging system is provided for determining three-dimensional measurement data of the surface of an object. The robot-based gauging system includes a robot having at least one movable member and a robot controller for controlling the movement of the movable member in relation to the surface of an object. A non-contact sensor is coupled to the movable member of the robot for capturing image data representative of the surface of the object. A position reporting device reports position data representative of the position of the non-contact sensor. A synch signal generator for generating and transmitting a synch signal is electrically connected to each of the non-contact sensor and the position reporting device, such that the non-contact sensor reports image data in response to the synch signal and the position reporting device reports position data in response to the synch signal. The robot-based gauging system further includes a vision system adapted to retrieve image data from the non-contact sensor and position data from the position reporting device, whereby the vision system synchronizes the image data with the position data in order to determine three-dimensional measurement data for the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining three-dimensional measurement data for the surface of an object, comprising: a movable member; a controller for causing said movable member to move in relation to the surface of the object; a non-contact sensor disposed on said movable member for collecting image data representative of a portion of the surface of the object; a position reporting device for reporting position data representative of the position of said non-contact sensor; a timing signal generator for periodically generating and transmitting a synch signal, said position reporting device electrically connected to said timing signal generator and reporting position data in response to each of said synch signals, and said non-contact sensor being electrically connected to said timing signal generator and collecting image data in response to each of said synch signals; and a data processor adapted to retrieve image data from said non-contact sensor and position data from said position reporting device, and being operable to synchronize the image data with the position data, thereby generating a three-dimensional representation of the object. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said movable member scans the surface of the object, such that the image data reported by said non-contact sensor lags in time behind the position data reported by said position reporting device. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a memory storage space for storing position data from said position reporting device, said data processor connected to said memory storage space for synchronizing the image data with the corresponding position data. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said non-contact sensor is a two-dimensional structural light sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said non-contact sensor emits structured light in a predefined planar configuration and having an optical receiver for receiving reflected light emitted by said non-contact sensor, where the reflected light being indicative of the surface of the object. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a kinematic correction module for applying a real-time correction to the position data received from the position reporting device based on a kinematic model of the movable member. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said position reporting device is further defined as photogrammetric measurement system. 8. A robot-based gauging system for determining three-dimensional measurement data of an object with respect to a reference frame, the gauging system of the type having a non-contact sensor mounted to a movable member of a robot for movement of the sensor relative to the object, comprising: a robot controller for controlling the movement of the movable member and reporting position data representative of the position of said movable member; a timing signal generator electrically connected to said robot controller for periodically generating and transmitting a synch signal, said robot controller reporting a set of said position data in response to each of said synch signals, thereby generating a plurality of position data sets; a non-contact sensor coupled to the movable member of the robot for capturing image data of the object, said non-contact sensor being electrically connected to said timing signal generator and responsive to each of said synch signals for capturing a set of image data representative of a portion of said object, thereby generating a corresponding plurality of image data sets representative of a plurality of portions of the object; and a vision system adapted to retrieve said plurality of image data sets from said non-contact sensor and to synchronize each image data set with a corresponding position data set, thereby generating a three-dimensional representation of the object. 9. The robot-based gauging system of claim 8 said movable member scans the surface of the object, such that each image data set retrieved from said non-contact sensor lags in time behind the corresponding position data set reported by said controller. 10. The robot-based gauging system of claim 8 further comprising a memory storage space for storing position data from said robot controller, said vision system connected to said memory storage space for synchronizing each image data set with the corresponding position data set. 11. The robot-based gauging system of claim 8 further comprising a kinematic correction module for applying a real-time correction to the position data based on a kinematic model of the robot. 12. The robot-based gauging system of claim 8 wherein said non-contact sensor is a two-dimensional structural light sensor. 13. The robot-based gauging system of claim 8 wherein said non-contact sensor emits structured light in a predefined planar configuration and having an optical receiver for receiving reflected light emitted by said non-contact sensor, where the reflected light being indicative of the surface of the object. 14. The robot-based gauging system of claim 8 further comprising a coordinate transformation system for transforming each position data set to a sensor reference frame, where the sensor reference frame is associated with said non-contact sensor. 15. A robot-based gauging system for determining three-dimensional measurement data of an object with respect to a reference frame, the gauging system of the type having a non-contact sensor mounted to a movable member of a robot for movement of the sensor relative to the object, comprising: a robot controller for controlling the movement of the movable member in relation to the object; a timing signal generator for periodically generating and transmitting a synch signal; a non-contact sensor coupled to the movable member of the robot for capturing image data of the object, said non-contact sensor being electrically connected to said timing signal generator and responsive to each of said synch signals for capturing a set of image data representative of a portion of said object, thereby generating a plurality of image data sets representative of a plurality of portions of the object; a photogrammetric measurement system for reporting position data representative of the position of said non-contact sensor by having a calibration field of observation and being positionable at vantage point such that said non-contact sensor is within the calibration field, said photogrammetric measurement system electrically connects to said timing signal generator and reporting a set of position data in response to each of said synch signals, thereby generating a plurality of position data sets; and a vision system adapted to retrieve said plurality of image data sets from said non-contact sensor and to synchronize each image data set with a corresponding position data set, thereby generating a three-dimensional representation of the object. 16. The robot-based gauging system of claim 15 said movable member scans the surface of the object, such that each image data set retrieved from said non-contact sensor lags in time behind the corresponding position data set reported by said controller. 17. The robot-based gauging system of claim 15 further comprising a memory storage space for storing position data from said photogrammetric measurement system, said vision system connected to said memory storage space for synchronizing each image data set with the corresponding position data set. 18. The robot-based gauging system of claim 15 wherein said non-contact sensor is a two-dimensional structural light sensor. 19. The robot-based gauging system of claim 15 wherein said non-contact sensor emits structured light in a predefined planar configuration and having an optical receiver for receiving reflected light emitted by said non-contact sensor, where the reflected light being indicative of the surface of the object. 