A transfer fluxing apparatus is provided. The apparatus is a flux reservoir for holding flux, a compliant pad attached to an opening in the flux reservoir and a means for controlling deposition of flux onto the compliant pad. The apparatus can be attached to an automated component placement machine. In the preferred embodiment of the invention, the control means is a valve located within the flux reservoir. The valve is opened by applying pressure to a plunger that extends through the compliant pad. When the plunger is pressed, the valve opens, and flux falls onto the compliant pad. Flux then passes through the pad to a component placement site. A method for automated fluxing and to component placement also is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transfer fluxing apparatus comprising: a flux reservoir containing flux; a compliant pad attached to an opening in the flux reservoir; a means for controlling deposition of flux onto the compliant pad; and further means for refilling the flux reservoir with flux, said refilling means comprising a refill device extending through a wall of the flux reservoir. 2. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for attaching the apparatus to an automated component placement machine. 3. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for attaching the apparatus to a robotic arm. 4. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 3, wherein the attachment means is an end-of-arm interface. 5. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a docking station; and means for holding the flux reservoir in the docking station. 6. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 5, wherein the holding means includes biasing springs. 7. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 6, further comprising: guide pins for correctly positioning the flux reservoir in the docking station. 8. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control means comprises: a valve that, when closed, prevents flux from being deposited onto the compliant pad; and a means for opening the valve to permit flux to fall onto the compliant pad. 9. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the opening means is a plunger extending from the compliant pad to the valve. 10. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the refilling means refills the fluxing reservoir at specified time intervals or number of fluxing cycles. 11. The transfer fluxing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the refill device comprises a syringe. 