A process for removing organic materials from semiconductor wafers and a process for chemical solvent drying of wafers. In the drying process, a wafer submerged in a bath having a lower aqueous layer and an upper organic layer is lifted from the lower aqueous layer up through the upper organic layer and removed from the bath.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for removing residual water from a semiconductor wafer submerged in an aqueous rinsing bath comprising the following steps: a) adding to the aqueous rinsing bath a low vapor pressure, organic liquid solvent being immiscible with, and having a density less than, the aqueous rinsing bath at ambient temperature and being of low toxicity and low flammability to form i) a lower aqueous layer, ii) an upper organic liquid solvent layer, and iii) a phase boundary between the aqueous layer and the organic liquid solvent layer; b) lifting the wafer from the lower aqueous layer, up through the phase boundary, and into the upper organic liquid solvent layer; c) removing the wafer from the organic liquid solvent layer, leaving a thin coating of organic liquid solvent adhered to the wafer; d) placing the organic liquid solvent coated wafer prepared in Step c) into an atmosphere comprising ozone to degrade and oxidize the organic liquid solvent coating leaving the wafer free of residual water or organic liquid solvent. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein the atmosphere comprising ozone is provided by passing a stream of ozone over the area of the surface of the organic liquid solvent layer where the wafer is being removed. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein the aqueous rinsing bath is deionized water. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein the organic liquid solvent is a water immiscible, hydrocarbon with greater than a five carbon chain and having a density less than water. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein the organic liquid solvent is an aliphatic hydrocarbon or a derivative thereof. 6. The process of claim 5 wherein the aliphatic hydrocarbon or derivative thereof is selected from the group consisting of octane, decane, 5-hepten-2-one, 2-nonanone, and isomers thereof. 7. The process of claim 6 wherein the aliphatic hydrocarbon is one of the isomers of decane or a combination of two or more isomers of decane. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein the low vapor pressure, organic liquid solvent has a vapor pressure less than 100 Pascal at ambient temperature. 