The present invention provides systems, devices, and methods employing fiber optic shape and position tracking. The systems, devices, and methods permit measurement of and continuous tracking of the shape and position of objects whose shape dynamically changes with time. Applications include tracking and monitoring of endoscopes for diagnostic and surgical procedures.
Claims We claim: 1. A system comprising a medical device comprising: a) one or more flexible optical fibers, a first flexible optical fiber of said one or more flexible optical fibers comprising one or more sets of 3 sensors with different emission spectra embedded in the fiber and spaced around the circumference of the fiber, wherein said sensors are configured to report the bending of the one or more flexible optical fibers; and b) a data collection and analysis component comprising a detector configured to detect signal from said sensors, a computer processor for processing data associated with said signal to generate shape information, and a user interface for displaying said shape information to a user. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical device comprises a guide wire. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical device comprises an endoscope. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the endoscope is a colonoscope. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said medical device further comprises a second flexible optical fiber of said one or more flexible optical fibers. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said sensors comprise a plurality of fluorophores having different spectral properties. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said sensors comprise a plurality of quantum dots having different spectral properties. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said sensors are embedded in a region of the fiber created by removal of a portion of a buffer and/or cladding layer of the fiber. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said shape information comprises pitch and yaw of a region of said medical device. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said user interface further displays an image of an environment located at the distal end of the medical device. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said sets of 3 sensors are spaced at 120 degrees around the circumference of the fiber. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said first flexible optical fiber comprises multiple sets of 3 sensors spaced at known intervals along the length of said flexible optical fiber. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said sets of 3 sensors are spaced at 6 cm intervals along 100 cm of said flexible optical fiber. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein said system further comprises a component for controlling the movement of said optical fiber. 15. A method for determining the shape of a medical device, comprising: a) inserting a medical device comprising one or more flexible optical fibers, a first flexible optical fiber of said one or more flexible optical fibers comprising one or more sets of 3 sensors with different emission spectra embedded in the fiber and spaced around the circumference of the fiber, wherein said sensors are configured to report the bending of the medical device into an environment; and b) detecting bending of said medical device in said environment by collecting information from said sensors. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said environment is a colon. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said medical device is a colonoscope. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said sets of 3 sensors are spaced at 120 degrees around the circumference of the fiber. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said first flexible optical fiber comprises multiple sets of 3 sensors spaced at known intervals along the length of said flexible optical fiber. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said sets of 3 sensors are spaced at 6 cm intervals along 100 cm of said flexible optical fiber. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein said environment is a cardiovascular environment. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein said environment is a blood vessel. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein said environment is selected from the group consisting of the gastrointestinal tract, the respiratory tract, the urinary tract, the female reproductive systems, the abdominal cavity, the pelvic cavity, the interior of a joint, organs of the chest, amnion, and fetuses. 