An overload protection device includes a cup-shaped cap member defining a cavity receiving a cup-shaped yoke member defining a pressurized air chamber receiving a piston having a rounded end surface engaging the cap member. An annular cam member is inserted into the cap member and defines three angularly spaced V-shaped cam surfaces with center seats which receive corresponding steel balls mounted on outwardly projecting ears of the yoke member. A rigid plastic ring is mounted on the yoke member with epoxy and contacts an annular shoulder within the cam member. The yoke member carries a pair of axially adjustable and normally closed electrical contact elements which are opened by an actuator pin projecting from the piston in response to tilting and/or rotation and/or axial movement between the yoke member and cap member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An overload protection device adapted to be mounted on a robot arm to support tooling, said device comprising a cap member defining a cavity, a yoke member projecting into said cavity of said cap member and defining a fluid chamber, a piston supported for axial movement within said chamber and confined in said chamber by said cap member, a plurality of angularly spaced contact elements having substantially part-spherical surfaces and supported by said yoke member, an annular cam member surrounding said yoke member and secured to said cap member, said cam member having a corresponding plurality of angularly spaced generally V-shaped cam surfaces and seats engaging said surfaces of said contact elements, means for directing pressurized fluid to said chamber between said piston and said yoke member to bias said contact elements against corresponding said seats, said contact elements, said piston and said cam surfaces providing for axial, tilting and rotational movement between said yoke member and said cap member, said yoke member having a corresponding plurality of ears projecting radially outwardly into portions of said cavity between said cap member and said cam member, a corresponding plurality of screws extending through said ears and into said contact elements, and a circuit control positioned to sense relative movement between said yoke member and said cap member. 2. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said ring member comprises a ring of rigid plastics material secured to said yoke member by a cured adhesive. 3. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said circuit control comprise relatively movable and normally closed switch contact elements, and an actuator carried by said piston for separating said contact elements in response to axial movement of said piston within said chamber. 4. A device as defined in claim 3 wherein said switch contact elements comprise a set of flexible metal contact elements having portions adjacent said actuator, and means for adjusting said contact elements relative to said actuator. 5. A device as defined in claim 3 and including an adjustment screw within a center portion of said yoke member and providing for moving said contact elements relative to said actuator for precisely selecting the degree of relative movement between said yoke member and cap member for opening said contact elements. 6. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said piston has a rounded end surface engaging said cap member within said cavity and providing for tilting movement of said cap member relative to said yoke member and said piston. 7. An overload protection device adapted to be mounted on a robot arm to support tooling, said device comprising a cap member defining a cavity, a yoke member projecting into said cavity of said cap member and defining a fluid chamber, a piston supported for axial movement within said chamber and confined in said chamber by said cap member, a plurality of angularly spaced contact elements, an annular cam member surrounding said yoke member and secured to said cap member, said cam member having a corresponding plurality of angularly spaced contoured cam surfaces and seats engaging said contact elements, a ring member mounted on an external shoulder of said yoke member and contacting a shoulder surface within said annular cam member between said contact elements at substantially a plane defined by said seats to produce a substantially uniform tilting force around said yoke member, means for directing pressurized fluid to said chamber between said piston and said yoke member to bias said contact elements against corresponding said seats, said contact elements, said piston and said cam surfaces providing for axial, tilting and rotational movement between said yoke member and said cap member, and a circuit control positioned to sense relative movement between said yoke member and said cap member. 8. An overload protection device adapted to be mounted on a robot arm to support tooling, said device comprising a cap member defining a cavity, a yoke member including an annular portion projecting into said cavity of said cap member and defining a fluid chamber, a piston supported for axial movement within said chamber and confined in said chamber by said cap member, three angularly spaced contact balls secured to said yoke member and positioned radially outwardly within said cavity from said annular portion defining said chamber, an annular cam member surrounding said annular portion of said yoke member and secured to said cap member in axial overlying relation to said contact balls, said annular cam member having three angularly spaced pairs of V-shaped cam surfaces with each said pair of cam surfaces converging to a V-shaped seat for the corresponding said contact ball, each of said V-shaped cam surfaces extending circumferentially in opposite directions from the corresponding said V-shaped seat by a distance greater than the diameter of the corresponding said ball, a passage within said yoke member for directing pressurized fluid to said chamber between said piston and said yoke member to bias said contact balls against the corresponding said seats, said contact balls, said piston and said cam surfaces providing for axial, tilting and rotational movement between said yoke member and said cap member against the force of said piston, said contact balls sliding up the corresponding said cam surfaces against said bias of the piston in response to rotation between said yoke member and said cap member, and a circuit control positioned to sense relative movement between said yoke member and said cap member. 9. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said contact balls each has a rounded surface with a two point contact with the corresponding said V-shaped seat, and each said pair of V-shaped cam surfaces define an included angle greater than an included angle defined by the corresponding said V-shaped seat. 10. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said piston comprises a rigid plastic material. 11. A device as defined in claim 8 and including a ring member mounted on said yoke member and positioned to contact a shoulder surface within said annular cam member. 12. A device as defined in claim 11 wherein said ring member comprises a ring of rigid material secured to said yoke member by a cured adhesive. 13. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said circuit control comprises relatively movable and normally closed switch contact elements in opposing relation, and a non-conductive actuator pin carried by said piston for separating said contact elements in response to axial movement of said piston within said chamber. 14. A device as defined in claim 13 wherein said switch contact elements comprise a pair of flexible metal contact elements having tapered portions adjacent said actuator pin, and means for adjusting said contact elements axially relative to said actuator pin. 15. A device as defined in claim 13 and including a support base of plastic material and supporting said switch contact elements, an adjustment screw carried by said yoke member and forming a stop for said support base, and a compression spring carried by said piston and biasing said support base against said adjustment screw. 16. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said piston has a rounded axially facing end surface engaging said cap member within said cavity and providing for tilting movement of said cap member relative to said yoke member and said piston. 17. A device as defined in claim 8 and including an annular and flexible dust cover surrounding said yoke member and covering said annular cam member. 