A system for identifying and managing information stored in a plurality of physical volumes (e.g., tape cartridges) in an information storage system includes a plurality of labels. Each label is configured for physical attachment to a physical volume and includes an electromagnetic transducer for storing data associated with the physical volume and/or the information contained therein. The means for storing is non-volatile, re-writable, and readable without requiring physical contact with the label.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A physical volume, for use in an information storage system, comprising: a data storage media; and an electronic label including data stored therein, wherein the data stored in the electronic label pertains to information contained on the data storage media, wherein the data stored in the electronic label comprises a summary of the information contained on the data storage media. 2. A physical volume, for use in an information storage system, comprising: a data storage media; and an electronic label including data stored therein, wherein the data stored in the electronic label pertains to information contained on the data storage media, wherein the data stored in the electronic label comprises a copy of a portion of the information contained on the data storage media. 3. A physical volume, for use in an information storage system, comprising: a data storage media; and an electronic label including data stored therein, wherein the data stored in the electronic label pertains to information contained on the data storage media, wherein the data stored in the electronic label comprises a directory of data files stored in the physical volume. 4. A physical volume, for use in an information storage system, comprising: a data storage media; and an electronic label including data stored therein, wherein the data stored in the electronic label pertains to information contained on the data storage media, wherein the data stored in the electronic label comprises a log of media defects. 5. A physical volume, for use in an information storage system, comprising: a data storage media; and an electronic label including data stored therein, wherein the data stored in the electronic label pertains to information contained on the data storage media, wherein the data stored in the electronic label comprises a log of media errors. 