A tilt mechanism for periodically tilting a cassette configured to hold a plurality of wafers or workpieces such that the wafers or workpieces become gravity-loaded against a rear portion of the cassette. The tilt mechanism is mounted entirely above a worktable of a CMP or other processing machine and comprises a housing which houses a circular cam having a spiral groove formed therein. A tilt arm is pivotally mounted to the housing and extends vertically between a lower end which is adjacent the cam and an upper end which is fixed to a platform supporting a cassette holding a plurality of workpieces. A cam follower is attached to the lower end of the arm and projects into the groove. Rotary motion of the cam effects pivotal movement of the tilt arm which, in turn, effects tilting of the support platform and the cassette.
Claims We claim: 1. A machine for processing disc-shaped workpieces, said machine comprising a processing apparatus for processing said workpieces; transfer means for sequentially retrieving said workpieces from a cassette which holds a plurality of said workpieces and transporting said workpieces from said cassette to said processing apparatus; and a tilt mechanism mounted on a support surface of said machine for tilting said cassette such that said workpieces are gravity loaded against a rear portion of said cassette during intervals when said transfer means is not retrieving a workpiece from said cassette, wherein said tilt mechanism is mounted entirely above said support surface of said machine. 2. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said machine is a chemical mechanical planarization machine and said workpieces are silicon wafers, said processing apparatus polishing and planarizing at least one surface of said wafers. 3. A machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said tilt mechanism comprises a housing which houses a circular cam having a spiral groove formed therein, and a tilt arm pivotally mounted to said housing and extending vertically between a lower end adjacent said cam and an upper end fixed to a platform supporting said cassette, a cam follower being attached to said lower end of said arm and projecting into said groove such that rotary motion of said cam effects pivotal movement of said tilt arm, which effects tilting of said support platform and said cassette. 4. A machine as claimed in claim 3, wherein said rotary motion of said cam is effected by an actuator attached to said cam. 5. A machine as claimed in claim 3, wherein said spiral groove traverses a path of approximately 450 degrees. 6. A machine as claimed in claim 5, wherein rotation of said cam such that said cam follower moves through the entire path of said groove is effective to generate a range of tilt of said support platform and said cassette of approximately twenty-seven degrees. 7. A machine as claimed in claim 6, wherein said support platform and said cassette are tilted back approximately twenty-five degrees from a planar state during said intervals when said transfer means is not retrieving a workpiece from said cassette. 8. A machine as claimed in claim 7, wherein said transfer means is an appropriately controlled robotic arm. 9. A tilt mechanism for tilting a cassette which is configured to hold a plurality of workpieces, said tilt mechanism comprising a housing which houses a circular cam having a spiral groove formed therein, and a tilt arm pivotally mounted to said housing and extending vertically between a lower end adjacent said cam and an upper end fixed to a platform supporting said cassette, a cam follower being attached to said lower end of said arm and projecting into said groove such that rotary motion of said cam effects pivotal movement of said tilt arm, which effects tilting of said support platform and said cassette. 10. A tilt mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein said tilt mechanism is fixed to a flat surface of a chemical mechanical planarization machine, and said workpieces are silicon wafers to be processed by said machine. 11. A tilt mechanism as claimed in claim 10, wherein said tilt mechanism is mounted entirely above said flat surface of said machine. 12. A tilt mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein said rotary motion of said cam is effected by an actuator attached to said cam. 13. A tilt mechanism as claimed in claim 12, wherein said spiral groove traverses a path of approximately 450 degrees. 14. A tilt mechanism as claimed in claim 13, wherein rotation of said cam such that said cam follower moves through the entire path of said groove is effective to generate a range of tilt of said support platform and said cassette of approximately twenty-seven degrees. 15. A tilt mechanism as claimed in claim 9, wherein said housing has a height in the range of four to five inches. 16. An apparatus comprising a support assembly for adjustably securing and supporting a cassette configured to hold a plurality of workpieces and a tilt mechanism for tilting said support assembly to gravity load said workpieces against a rear portion of said cassette; said support assembly comprising a flat platform for receiving said cassette, an alignment guide adjustably mounted on a front portion of said platform for abutting a front portion of said cassette and guiding said cassette into proper position, and alignment posts adjustably mounted in rear corner portions of said platform for receiving mounting wings extending from a rear portion of said cassette; and said tilt mechanism comprising a housing which houses a circular cam having a spiral groove formed therein, and a tilt arm pivotally mounted to said housing and extending vertically between a lower end adjacent said cam and an upper end fixed to said platform supporting said cassette, a cam follower being attached to said lower end of said arm and projecting into said groove such that rotary motion of said cam effects pivotal movement of said tilt arm, which effects tilting of said support platform and said cassette. 