A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. The suture pull-test station tests each needle suture bond with a pre-determined pull for quality control. This pull is adjustable via a precision spring tension device. The pull test station includes two sets of jaws for gripping the suture, the first for the quality control pull test, and the second for a destructive test in which the strength of the bond is measured for adjusting the swage dies and for statistical quality control purposes. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a semi-automatic needle singulating station for receiving a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said station having a sliding surface for assisting an operator in singulating surgical needles for transfer to a precise positioning apparatus; (b) a precise positioning apparatus for receiving singulated needles from said needle singulating station and precisely positioning the singulated needle at a first predetermined location; (c) a universal gripper for receiving each precisely positioned and singulated needle at said first predetermined location and indexing said needle in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive locations for sequential swaging and testing at subsequent predetermined locations, (d) a suture swaging station for swaging said suture receiving opening about a free end of a suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly, (e) a suture pull test station, said station having a non-destructive test assembly having a pair of non-destructive gripping jaws for positively gripping said suture at a first position below a v-blade needle support arm, said non-destructive gripping assembly including a slide block means for applying said positive downward force of predetermined value to said gripped suture strand to thereby test the strength of said swage bond; whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a plurality of surgical needle and suture assemblies. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said swaging station further includes first and second swaging die means, said first swaging die means having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die means having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said second swaging die means is positioned next to said first swaging die means to form a swage die opening for receiving said needle from said universal gripper. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said first swaging die means is relatively fixed in position and adjustable in position between swaging to adjust the swage compression imparted to said needle during swaging. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said first fixed swaging die includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof, said means for changing the position of said first fixed swaging die means including a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower to laterally move said wedge follower and said first fixed swaging die means in accordance with transverse movement of said wedge assembly. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said transverse movement of said wedge assembly is controllable by a servomotor means for rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch, said rotation of said swage adjust screw being translated into linear motion of said wedge assembly. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said slide block means for applying said positive downward force includes a mass of predetermined weight and an adjustable tension device. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said suture pull test station further includes a transducer which measures a force generated by said v-blade needle support arm when said positive downward force is applied to said suture by said slide block means. 9. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the apparatus further includes a computer control means connected to said transducer which outputs a pull test data signal when said positive downward force is applied to said suture by said slide block means. 10. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said computer control means determines and controls the optimum positioning of said first swaging die to avoid over-swaging and under-swaging said needle in response to said test data signals from said transducer means. 11. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said computer control means adjusts said servomotor means and said wedge assembly in response to said pull test data signals. 12. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said apparatus further includes a destructive test assembly having a pair of destructive gripping jaws for positively gripping said suture to pull said suture from said surgical needle at every predetermined nth interval; and said computer control means receives a destruct data signal from said transducer means when said destructive test assembly is actuated at every nth interval. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according and to claim 11 wherein said computer control means directs continuous destructive testing during a die set-up procedure until said destruct data signals fall into a predetermined range. 