The present invention provides a robotic dispensing apparatus comprising a gear pump operably coupled to a rotatable element positioned along the sixth axis of a multi-axis robot such that the gear pump is driven by the multi-axis robot. In one embodiment of the present invention, a sixth axis motor of the multi-axis robot drives the rotatable element and a dispense valve communicates with the gear pump for receiving and dispensing viscous material from the gear pump. Preferably, a flexible coupling interconnects the gear pump and the rotatable element and a manifold and piping system cooperate to deliver the viscous material pumped by the gear pump to the dispense valve.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic dispensing apparatus comprising: a multi-axis robot having a base, said base rotatably supporting a main body portion along a first axis, said main body portion pivotally supporting a support member about a second axis, said support member pivotally supporting an arm about a third axis, said arm having a first end rotatable along a fourth axis with respect to a second end, a wrist member pivotally connected to said arm about a fifth axis, and a rotatable element rotatably mounted to said wrist along a sixth axis; motor disposed along said sixth axis for rotating said rotatable element; and a gear pump operably coupled to said rotatable element such that said gear pump is driven by said rotatable element. 2. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a dispense valve communicating with said gear pump for receiving and dispensing a preselected material. 3. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a coupling interconnecting said rotatable element and said gear pump. 4. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 3 wherein said coupling is flexible. 5. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: at least one bracket secured to said wrist for supporting said gear pump. 6. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a manifold communicating with said gear pump; and a dispense valve communicating with said manifold. 7. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a piping system interconnecting said manifold and said dispense valve. 8. A robotic dispensing apparatus for dispensing a viscous material onto a desired location comprising: a multi-axis robot including a base, said base rotatably supporting a main body portion along a first axis, said main body portion pivotally supporting a support member about a second axis, said support member pivotally supporting an arm about a third axis, said arm having a first end rotatable along a fourth axis with respect to a second end, a wrist member pivotally connected to said arm about a fifth axis, and a rotatable face plate rotatably mounted to said wrist along a sixth axis; a motor operably disposed along said sixth axis and coupled to said rotatable face plate for causing rotation thereof; a gear pump connected to said rotatable face plate; a piping system communicating with said gear pump; and a dispense valve communicating with said piping system for dispensing said viscous material. 9. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a coupling interconnecting said rotatable face plate and said gear pump. 10. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 9 wherein said coupling is flexible. 11. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a face plate adaptor interconnecting said face plate and said coupling. 12. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a manifold interconnecting said gear pump and said piping system. 13. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 8 further comprising at least one bracket supporting said gear pump. 14. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 13 wherein said bracket is mounted along said fifth axis of said multi-axis robot. 15. A robotic dispensing apparatus for dispensing a viscous material onto a desired location comprising: a multi-axis robot including a base, said base rotatably supporting a main body portion along a first axis, said main body portion pivotally supporting a support member about a second axis, said support member pivotally supporting an arm about a third axis, said arm having a first end rotatable along a fourth axis with respect to a second end, a wrist member pivotally connected to said arm about a fifth axis, and a face plate rotatably mounted to said wrist along a sixth axis; a motor disposed along said sixth axis for rotating said face plate; a coupling coupled to said face plate; a driving shaft of a gear pump operably engaging said coupling; a manifold fluidly communicating with said gear pump; inlet piping interconnecting at least one of said manifold and said gear pump with a viscous material reservoir; outlet piping interconnecting said manifold and a dispense valve for dispensing said viscous material; and at least one bracket mounted to said wrist for supporting said gear pump. 16. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 15 wherein said coupling is flexible. 17. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a face 