A man-machine interface is disclosed which provides force information to sensing body parts. The interface is comprised of a force-generating device (106) that produces a force which is transmitted to a force-applying device (102) via force-transmitting means (104). The force-applying device applies the generated force to a sensing body part. A force sensor associated with the force applies device and located in the force applicator (126) measures the actual force applies to the sensing body part, while angle sensors (136) measure the angles of relevant joint body parts. A force-control unit (108) uses the joint body part position information to determine a desired force value to be applies to the sensing body part. The force-control unit combines the joint body part position information with the force sensor information to calculate the force command which is sent to the force-generating device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for attachment to a body which body comprises a sensing body link connected to a non-sensing body link with at least one sensing body joint between said sensing and non-sensing body links, said device comprising means for applying force to said sensing body link, attachment means for attaching to said force-applying means and to said non-sensing body link, and means for generating a force at said sensing body link and a moment at said sensing body joint, said device characterized by: means for applying said generated force between said sensing body link and said non-sensing body part, wherein said means for applying said generated force comprises a moment-augmenting structure, a tendon elevated by said moment-augmenting structure, said tendon connected at said force-applying means at one end and to said force generating means at the other end, and guiding means for guiding said tendon between said force-applying means and said force generating means. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein said moment-augmenting structure comprises first and second elements connected by an articulated link, whereby the two elements move in the same plane. 3. A device according to claim 1, wherein said moment-augmenting structure comprises a complex member comprising a flexure-articulating component and an abduction-articulating component, said complex member further comprises two revolute joints, wherein said flexure-articulating component is attached to said abduction-articulating component by one of said revolute joints and rotates relative to said abduction-articulating component, and said abduction-articulating component is attached to said attachment means at said non-sensing body link by means of the other one said revolute joints. 4. A device according to claim 1, wherein said moment-augmenting structure comprises a simple member comprising means for attachment to an intermediate link between said sensing and non-sensing links and a tendon-elevating guide connected to said attachment means. 5. A device according to claim 1, wherein said force-applying means comprises a platform displaced from said sensing body link in an unactivated position and in contact with said sensing body link in an activated position. 6. A device according to claim 1, wherein said device further comprises: a second force generating means connected to said device for providing force to said device relative to a reference point off said body. 7. A device for attachment to a hand which hand comprises a distal phalanx connected to the metacarpus via the proximal and medial phalanges and the metacarpophalangeal joint, and the distal and proximal interphalangeal joints, said device comprising attachment means for attaching to said metacarpus and medial phalanx, and means for applying force to said distal phalanx, and means for generating a force at said distal phalanx and a moment at each of said joints, said device characterized by: a tendon; means for applying said generated force between said distal phalanx and said metacarpus, wherein said means for applying said generated force comprises a moment-augmenting structure, said moment-augmenting structure comprising: (a) a complex member comprising a flexure-articulating component and an abduction-articulating component, said complex member further comprises two revolute joints, wherein said flexure-articulating component is attached to said abduction-articulating component by one of said revolute joints and rotates relative to said abduction-articulating component, and said abduction-articulating component is attached to said attachment means at said non-sensing body link by means of the other one said revolute joints; and (b) a simple member comprising means for attachment to said medial phalanx and a tendon-elevating guide connected to said attachment means; (c) an articulated link attaching said complex member to said simple member, wherein said simple and complex members move in the same plane; a housing attached at one end to said abduction-articulating component and attached at the other end to said force generating means; and guides for conducting said tendon along said flexure-articulating component and said tendon-elevating guide to said distal phalanx. 8. In a device for attachment to a body, which body comprises a sensing body link connected to a non-sensing body link with at least one sensing body joint between said sensing and non-sensing body links, a method comprising: applying force to said sensing body link; attaching said body to said force-applying means and to said non-sensing body link, and generating a force at said sensing body link and a moment at said sensing body joint; applying said generated force between said sensing body link and said non-sensing body part; said step of applying said generated force comprising applying said force via a moment-augmenting structure and a tendon elevated by said moment-augmenting structure, said tendon connected to receive said generated force at one end and apply said applied force at the other end; and guiding said tendon between said force-applying means and said force generating means. 9. A control system comprising: means for sensing the force applied to the fingertip of a finger and generating a sensed applied force signal related to said sensed force; and means for controlling the fingertip force to a desired force set point in response to said sensed applied force signal, said desired force set point which may vary as a function of said finger position. 10. The control system in claim 9, wherein said generated sensed applied force signal compises a generated sensed applied force digital signal, and said means for controlling the fingertip force to a desired force set point includes a digital processor receiving said generated sensed applied force digital signal. 11. A force-feedback device for the hand and cooperating with an external force producing means, said device comprising: a mechanical superstructure capable of exerting a force directly at the fingertip without attaching to other parts of the finger; said superstructure comprising a five-bar linkage consisting of first, second, third and fourth links which are attached together via revolute joints; said third link extending to a linear adjustment means which attaches to a fifth link which is attached to the force applicator at said fingertip; said first link and second link are attached to respective first and second pulleys; said first link and second link and said first pulley and said second pulley being pivotally connected to a support, which support is free to rotate about a joint to track finger abduction/adduction; said support being connected to a backplate via said joint, and said backplate being attached to said hand by attachment means; first and second tendons are routed around and fixed respectively to said first and second pulleys; and said tendons being guided to said superstructure from said force-producing means using at least one tendon casings. 12. The device in claim 11, wherein four said tendon casings are used to guide said tendons to said superstructure from said force producing means. 13. The device in claim 11, wherein two said tendon casings are used to guide said tendons to said superstructure from said force producing means, and wherein incompressible yet flexible tendons are used, and wherein only two tendon casings are required because said tendons are able to both push and pull on said pulleys. 14. The device in claim 13, wherein said tendons are made from steel wire. 15. The device in claim 11, wherein said device is adapted to filly track motion of a finger when no forces are being exerted; and when exerting a force, torques are exerted onto said pulleys via said tendons and these torques are translated to forces exerted at the fingertips via said five-bar linkage; such that it is possible to exert a force in any direction in the plane of the finger. 16. The device in claim 11, further comprising an additional pulley and tendon assembly associated with said joint to exert a resistive force when a finger is abducting/adducting. 17. The device in claim 16, further including a position-sensing means at said force-applying means to compute the position of said force applicator and therefore at said fingertip. 18. The device in claim 11, wherein said linear adjustment is adapted to adjust the device for a variety of hand sizes, and wherein said linear adjustment means comprises either a friction-based adjustment or an indexed-based adjustment. 19. The device in claim 17, wherein said position-sensing means includes sensing means selected from the group consisting of an encoder, a potentiometer, a Hall-effect sensor, and combinations thereof. 20. The device in claim 17, wherein said force-applying means includes applying means selected from the group consisting of a DC motor, a stepper motor, a pneumatic actuator, and combinations thereof. 