A method and apparatus for positioning a plurality of workpieces in a tightly spaced array within a guide block. The apparatus of the invention includes an insertion head mounted to a robot assembly arm. The insertion head includes a pair of resiliently mounted gripper fingers that can be operated to pick up an individual workpiece from a supply station. The gripper fingers include a spring member that biases the gripper fingers into an engagement position. Once the workpiece has been acquired by the insertion head, the insertion head is used to alternately rotate the workpiece while applying a downward force to slide the workpiece into the defined location within a receptacle. After the workpiece has been inserted, the gripper fingers are moved to their retracted position to press the workpiece completely downward into the receptacle.
Claims I claim: 1. A method utilizing a robotic arm having a pair of gripper fingers each mounted to a mounting block movable between an extended position and a retracted position to position a plurality of workpieces in a tightly spaced array within a receptacle configured to retain the array of workpieces, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a spring element between each gripper finger and the mounting block to which it is mounted, the spring element exerting a bias force on the gripper finger to force the gripper finger into a gripping position; moving the mounting blocks into the retracted position to grasp one of the individual workpieces between the pair of gripper fingers; moving the robotic arm to align the workpiece above an open slot in the receptacle, the open slot defined by spacing elements; moving the robotic arm to press the workpiece partially into the open slot; rotating the workpiece in a first direction until the workpiece contacts the spacing elements causing the gripper fingers to flex from the gripping position against the bias force of the spring element; rotating the workpiece in a second, opposite direction until the workpiece contacts the spacing elements causing the gripper fingers to flex from the gripping position against the bias force of the spring element; pressing the workpiece further into the open slot between the spacing elements; and repeating the steps of rotating the workpiece in the first direction, rotating the workpiece in the second direction, and subsequently pressing the workpiece into the open slot until the workpiece is positioned within the open slot. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: further rotating the gripper fingers in the first direction after the workpiece contacts the spacing elements to cause the gripper fingers to flex against the spring element bias force and move from the gripping position; and further rotating the gripper fingers in the second direction after the workpiece contacts the spacing elements to cause the gripper fingers to flex against the spring element bias force and move from the gripping position. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of pressing the workpiece into the open slot includes moving the robotic arm a predetermined distance after rotating the workpiece in the first direction and the second direction such that the workpiece is pressed the predetermined distance further into the open slot. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the steps of rotating the workpiece in the first direction and the second direction and pressing the workpiece into the open slot are repeated until the gripper fingers contact one of the workpieces positioned immediately adjacent to the slot into which the workpiece is being inserted. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: moving the gripper fingers from the retracted position to the extended position to release the workpiece after the workpiece is positioned within the open slot in the receptacle; moving the gripper fingers away from the workpiece; moving the gripper fingers from the extended position to the retracted position; and moving the gripper fingers into contact with the workpiece to press the workpiece completely into the open slot. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: moving the workpiece into an alignment station; moving the mounting blocks into the extended position to release the workpiece from the gripper fingers into the alignment station; moving the robotic arm to press the workpiece against a stop member in the alignment station; and moving the mounting blocks into the retracted position to regrip the workpiece at a known position determined by the stop member. 7. A method utilizing a robotic arm having a pair of gripper fingers each mounted to a mounting block movable between an extended position and a retracted position to position a plurality of workpieces in a tightly spaced array within a receptacle configured to retain the array of workpieces, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a spring element between each gripper finger and the mounting block to which it is mounted, the spring element exerting a bias force on the gripper finger to force the gripper finger into a gripping position; moving the mounting blocks into the retracted position to grasp one of the individual workpieces between the pair of gripper fingers; moving the robotic arm to align the workpiece above an open slot in the receptacle, the open slot defined by spacing elements; moving the robotic arm downward to press the workpiece partially into the open slot; rotating the workpiece in a first direction until the workpiece contacts the spacing elements; further rotating the gripper fingers in the first direction to cause the gripper fingers to flex against the spring element bias force and move from the gripping position; pressing the workpiece downward a predetermined distance to insert the workpiece further into the open slot between the spacing elements; rotating the workpiece in a second, opposed direction until the workpiece contacts the spacing elements; further rotating the gripper fingers in the second direction to cause the gripping fingers to flex against the spring element bias force and move from the gripping position; pressing the workpiece downward for the predetermined distance to further insert the workpiece into the open slot between the spacing elements; and repeating the steps of rotating the workpiece and pressing the workpiece into the open slot until the workpiece is substantially contained within the open slot. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the workpiece is substantially inserted into the open slot when the gripper fingers contact one of the workpieces positioned immediately adjacent to the open slot when the workpiece is still gripped by the gripper fingers. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: releasing the workpiece by moving the mounting blocks from the retracted position to the extended position when the workpiece is substantially inserted into the open slot; raising the gripper fingers above the workpiece; moving the mounting blocks from the extended position to the retracted position; and pressing the gripper fingers into contact with the workpiece to force the workpiece completely into the open slot. 10. The method of claim 7 further comprising the steps of: sensing the movement of each gripper finger from the gripping position; and terminating the rotation of the workpiece in response to the detection of movement of the gripper finger from the gripping position. 