An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding the workpiece includes an unloading apparatus for receiving the workpiece configured to couple to the spindle. A pneumatic system is coupled to the unloading apparatus whereby air flow acts on the workpiece and causes the workpiece to exit the spindle and travel to the unloading apparatus. The unloading apparatus extends into a machining chamber of the lathe to couple to the spindle. A downstream end of the unloading apparatus is configured to create a venturi effect. A workpiece receiving tray is located downstream of the unloading apparatus. After exiting the unloading apparatus the workpiece is directed against a damper. A safety door is located between the unloading apparatus and the damper. The unloading device has a footprint of a limited dimension permitting use of the unloading device with a chip conveyor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a twin-spindle CNC lathe having a housing, a pair of spindles and a pair of chucks for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus configured to extend into a machining chamber defined inside the lathe housing for coupling to said spindle while permitting removal of said workpiece from said unloading apparatus without decoupling of said unloading apparatus from said spindle, and a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus. 2. The unloading device of claim 1 wherein said unloading apparatus includes a first unloading member for receiving said workpiece, said first member being configured to extend into said machining chamber for coupling to said spindle, and a second unloading member for receiving said workpiece, said second unloading member being configured to couple to said first unloading member, said pneumatic system being coupled to said second unloading member whereby the air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said second unloading member is coupled to said first unloading member and causes the workpiece to exit the spindle and travel to said first and said second unloading members. 3. The unloading device of claim 2 wherein said first and said second unloading members each includes a passage therethrough for receiving said workpiece. 4. The unloading device of claim 2 wherein said second unloading member includes an upstream end for axial coupling to a downstream end of said first unloading member. 5. The unloading device of claim 4 wherein said upstream end of said second unloading member includes an outer taper and said downstream end of said first unloading member includes an inner taper. 6. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus configured to extend into a machining chamber for coupling to said spindle, and a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, said unloading apparatus includes a downstream end configured to create a venturi effect when said air flow is created at said downstream end of said unloading apparatus. 7. The unloading device of claim 6 further including a coupler configured to interact with said downstream end of said unloading apparatus to create said venturi effect. 8. The unloading device of claim 7 wherein said coupler is adjustable to control the air flow acting on said workpiece. 9. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus configured to extend into a machining chamber for coupling to said spindle, said unloading apparatus including a first unloading member for receiving said workpiece, said first member being configured to extend into said machining chamber for coupling to said spindle, and a second unloading member for receiving said workpiece, said second unloading member being configured to couple to said first unloading member, and a pneumatic system coupled to said second unloading member whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said second unloading member is coupled to said first unloading member and causes said workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said first and said second unloading members, said unloading apparatus further includes a venturi block coupled to a downstream end of said second unloading member, said venturi block configured to create a venturi effect when said air flow is created at said downstream end of said unloading apparatus. 10. The unloading device of claim 9 further including a coupler configured to interact with said downstream end of said unloading apparatus to create said venturi effect. 11. The unloading device of claim 10 wherein said coupler is adjustable to control the air flow acting on said workpiece. 12. The unloading device of claim 1 further including a workpiece receiving tray located downstream of said unloading apparatus. 13. The unloading device of claim 12 wherein said workpiece receiving tray is v-shaped. 14. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus configured to extend into a machining chamber for coupling to said spindle, a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, and a workpiece receiving tray located downstream of said unloading apparatus, said workpiece receiving tray includes two members coacting to form a v-shaped receiving tray, one of said members being adjustable to change an included angle between said two members. 15. The unloading device of claim 14 further including a holding table which receives said workpiece from said tray. 16. The unloading device of claim 1 further including a damper located downstream of said unloading apparatus against which said workpiece is directed after exiting said unloading apparatus. 17. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus configured to extend into a machining chamber for coupling to said spindle, a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, a damper located downstream of said unloading apparatus against which said workpiece is directed after exiting said unloading apparatus, and a safety door located between said unloading apparatus and said damper. 18. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: a first unloading member including a passage therethrough for receiving said workpiece, said first unloading member having an upstream end configured to axially couple to said spindle, a second unloading member including a passage therethrough for receiving said workpiece, said second unloading member having an upstream end configured to axially couple to a downstream end of said first unloading member, and said second unloading member having a downstream end configured to create a venturi effect when air flows by said downstream end of said second unloading member, a coupler configured to interact with said downstream end of said second unloading member to create said venturi effect, a workpiece receiving tray located downstream of said second unloading member and including a damper against which said workpiece is directed after exiting said second unloading member, and a pneumatic system coupled to said second unloading member whereby a venturi effect created by said second unloading member and said coupler acts on said workpiece when said second unloading member is coupled to said first unloading member and causes the workpiece to exit the lathe spindle and travel through said passages in said first unloading member and said second unloading member. 19. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus configured to couple to said spindle, and a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit the lathe spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, said unloading apparatus including a downstream end configured to create a venturi effect when said air flow is created at said downstream end. 20. The unloading device of claim 19 further including a coupler configured to interact with said downstream end of said unloading apparatus to create said venturi effect. 21. The unloading device of claim 20 wherein said coupler is adjustable to control the air flow acting on said workpiece. 22. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus being configured to couple to said spindle, said unloading apparatus including a first unloading member for receiving said workpiece and a second unloading member for receiving said workpiece, said second unloading member configured to couple to said first unloading member, a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, and a workpiece receiving tray located downstream of and substantially axially aligned with said second unloading member. 23. The unloading device of claim 22 wherein said workpiece receiving tray is v-shaped. 24. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus being configured to couple to said spindle, a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit said spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, and a workpiece receiving tray located downstream of said unloading apparatus, said workpiece receiving tray includes two members coacting to form a v-shaped receiving tray, one of said members being adjustable to change an included angle between said two members. 25. The unloading device of claim 24 further including a holding table which receives said workpiece from said tray. 26. The unloading device of claim 25 wherein the holding table is pivotable to permit accesss to a lathe door. 27. An unloading device for removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising: an unloading apparatus for receiving said workpiece, said unloading apparatus being configured to couple to said spindle, a pneumatic system coupled to said unloading apparatus whereby an air flow created by said pneumatic system acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit the spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus, a damper located downstream of said unloading apparatus against which said workpiece is directed after exiting said unloading apparatus, and a safety door located between said unloading apparatus and said damper. 28. A method of removing a workpiece from a lathe having a spindle for holding said workpiece, comprising the steps of: creating an air flow in an unloading apparatus coupled to said spindle, whereby a venturi effect is created such that said air flow acts on said workpiece when said unloading apparatus is coupled to said spindle and causes the workpiece to exit the spindle and travel to said unloading apparatus. 