A robotic guidance mechanism for transporting storage media cartridges along linear and curved routes within a data storage library. The guidance mechanism includes a robotic assembly operating on a guide rail. Two guides of the robotic assembly move in two guide paths in the guide rail to route and orient the robotic assembly in a plane defined by the guide rail. A third guide of the robotic assembly engages a guide surface on the guide rail to prevent the robotic assembly from rotating out of the guide rail plane. A picker assembly is provided in the robotic assembly to handle one of the storage media cartridges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic guidance mechanism for transporting a storage media cartridge in a data storage library, the robotic guidance mechanism comprising: a guide rail having a first guide path, a second guide path, and a guide surface; a carriage disposed to one side only of the guide rail horizontally; a plurality of guides attached to the carriage, wherein a first guide and a second guide of the plurality of guides are disposed in the first guide path and the second guide path respectively, and a third guide of the plurality of guides engages the guide surface; and a picker assembly disposed on the carriage, the picker assembly being operative to load and unload the storage media cartridge from the carriage. 2. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 wherein at least one guide of the plurality of guides is rotatable, the robotic guidance mechanism further comprising a motor mounted on the carriage and coupled to at least one guide to rotate the at least one guide. 3. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 2 wherein the at least one guide coupled to the motor is the third guide. 4. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 3 wherein the third guide is a drive gear and the guide surface of the guide rail includes a rack gear engaged by the drive gear. 5. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 4 further comprising a wheel coaxially attached to the drive gear and engaging the guide surface to unload the drive gear from the rack gear. 6. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 further comprising a linear motor having at least two components, a coil assembly and a reaction plate, wherein one component of the at least two components is mounted on the guide rail and the other component of the at least two components is mounted on the carriage. 7. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 further comprising: a belt attached to the carriage and operative to move approximately parallel to the guide rail; and a motor coupled to the belt to move the belt. 8. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the first guide and the second guide of the plurality of guides are fixedly attached to the carriage. 9. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the first guide and the second guide of the plurality of guides are rotatably attached to the carriage. 10. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 further comprising: a support surface provided on the guide rail; and a fourth guide and a fifth guide of the plurality of guides engaging the support surface to support the carriage vertically. 11. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 further comprising: a second guide surface provided on the guide rail; and another guide of the plurality of guides engaging the second guide surface to maintain the third guide of the plurality of guides engaged with the guide surface. 12. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 wherein at least one storage media cartridge has a bar code, the robotic guidance mechanism further comprising a bar code reader disposed on the carriage for reading the bar code on the at least one storage media cartridge. 13. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 1 wherein the guide rail has at least one curved section and at least one straight section. 14. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 13 wherein the guide rail is J-shaped. 15. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 13 wherein the guide rail is U-shaped. 16. A robotic assembly for transporting storage media cartridges along a guide rail in a data storage library, wherein the guide rail has a first guide path, a second guide path and a guide surface, the robotic assembly comprising: a carriage disposed to one side only of the guide rail horizontally; a plurality of guides attached to the carriage, wherein a first guide and a second guide of the plurality of guides engage the first guide path and the second guide path respectively, and a third guide of the plurality of guides engages the guide surface; and a picker assembly disposed on the carriage, the picker assembly being operative to load and unload the storage media cartridge from the carriage. 17. The robotic assembly of claim 16 wherein at least one guide of the plurality of guides is rotatable, the robotic assembly further comprising a motor mounted on the carriage and coupled to at least one guide to rotate the at least one guide. 18. The robotic assembly of claim 17 wherein the at least one guide coupled to the motor is the third guide. 19. The robotic assembly of claim 18 wherein the guide rail includes a rack gear, and the third guide is a drive gear that engages the rack gear. 20. The robotic assembly of claim 19 further comprising a wheel coaxially attached to the drive gear and engaging the guide surface. 21. The robotic assembly of claim 16 further comprising a linear motor having at least two components, a coil assembly and a reaction plate, wherein one component of the at least two components is mounted on the guide rail and the other component of the at least two components is mounted on the carriage. 22. The robotic assembly of claim 16 wherein the carriage is a attached to a belt that is operative to move approximately parallel to the guide rail. 23. The robotic assembly of claim 16 wherein the first guide and the second guide of the plurality of guides are fixedly attached to the carriage. 24. The robotic assembly of claim 16 wherein the first guide and the second guide of the plurality of guides are rotatably attached to the carriage. 25. The robotic assembly of claim 16 wherein the plurality of guides further comprises a fourth guide and a fifth guide engaging the guide rail to support the carriage vertically. 26. The robotic assembly of claim 16 wherein the plurality of guides further comprises another guide engaging the guide rail to maintain the third guide of the plurality of guides engaged with the guide surface. 27. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 16 wherein at least one storage media cartridge has a bar code, the robotic assembly further comprising a bar code reader disposed on the carriage for reading the bar code on the at least one storage media cartridge. 28. A guide rail for guiding a robotic assembly having a plurality of guides defining a first guide, a second guide, and a third guide, the guide rail comprising: a first guide path for guiding the first guide of the plurality of guides of the robotic assembly; a second guide path for guiding the second guide of the plurality of guides of the robotic assembly; and a guide surface for engaging the third guide of the plurality of guides of the robotic assembly, and the guide rail being arranged to be on one side only of the robotic assembly horizontally. 29. The guide rail of claim 28 wherein the third guide of the plurality of guides is a drive gear, and the guide surface includes a rack gear for engaging the drive gear. 30. The guide rail of claim 28 wherein the robotic assembly includes a fourth guide and a fifth guide of the plurality of guides for vertical support, the guide rail further comprising a support surface for engaging the fourth guide and fifth guide of the plurality of guides of the robotic assembly. 31. The guide rail of claim 28 wherein the robotic assembly includes another guide of the plurality of guides to maintain the third guide of the plurality of guides engaged with the guide surface, the guide rail further comprising a second guide surface for engaging the other guide of the plurality of guides of the robotic assembly. 32. The guide rail of claim 28 wherein the guide rail has at least one curved section and at least one straight section. 33. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 32 wherein the guide rail is J-shaped. 34. The robotic guidance mechanism of claim 32 wherein the guide rail is U-shaped. 