A resistance welding system with a self-contained close-loop cooling arrangement which includes a chiller, a welding transformer, a cable and a welding gun. The chiller has a feed-port and return-port for the cooling fluid. The welding transformer has an inlet and outlet for a defined cooling path and the inlet is coupled with the feed port of the chiller while the outlet is coupled with the return port of the chiller. One end of the cable is connected to one side of the transformer, for carrying the welding current. The cable is capable of being coupled to the chiller in a manner to internally transfer the cooling fluid in either direction. The welding gun is connected to the other end of the cable and has a pair of electrodes for applying the current through a pair of workpieces. The welding gun also has a built-in cooling system which is capable of receiving, circulating and returning the cooling fluid to the chiller without external fittings and hoses.
Claims We claim: 1. An improved resistance welding system having self-contained, closed loop cooling, comprising: a chiller associated exclusively with said welding system for removing heat from cooling fluid, said chiller having a feed port and a return port for said fluid; a welding transformer having a first inlet and outlet to define a first cooling path, said first inlet being coupled to said feed port, said first outlet being coupled to said return port of said chiller; a cable connected to a secondary side of said transformer at a first end for carrying secondary welding current, said cable including means coupled to said chiller for internally bidirectionally transferring cooling fluid; and a welding gun connected to a second end of said cable and having a pair of electrodes for applying said secondary welding current through a pair of workpieces, said welding gun including means for receiving, circulating, and returning cooling fluid to said chiller. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said welding gun includes a plurality of internal channels for cooling said electrodes which derive from a common inlet and rejoin at a common outlet. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said transformer includes a primary side that is selectively connected through an air-cooled contactor structure to a power source. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said means for receiving, circulating, and returning cooling fluid is internal to said welding gun. 