A system and method for cleaning probe pins on a probe card used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof. A ceramic cleaning wafer is utilized to clean the probe pins without having to remove the probe card from a production line. The same apparatus used to test production wafers also handles the cleaning wafer during a probe cleaning cycle. During operation of the cleaning cycle, the cleaning wafer is placed in a manual load tray, which inserts the cleaning wafer into a prober machine. The cleaning wafer is transported by a robotic trolley to a prealign stage area where the cleaning wafer is aligned and centered. The cleaning wafer is then placed on a support device. The support device and cleaning wafer are positioned under a pneumatic sensor and profiled to determine wafer planarity. The support device and cleaning wafer are then positioned underneath the probe pins on the probe card to be cleaned. Thereafter, the z-axis distance between the probe pins and the surface of the cleaning wafer is decreased such that the probe pins contact the cleaning wafer, thereby removing debris from the probe pins. The cleaning wafer is then removed from the support device when cleaning of the probe pins has been completed.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by United States Letters Patent is: 1. A wafer for cleaning a semiconductor device probe, the wafer comprising: a first p surface including a ceramic material removing unwanted debris from a probe tip; a second surface opposing said first surface the second surface having an opaque coating thereon capable of blocking transmission of infrared light energy through the wafer; and an outer periphery between the first and second surfaces, the outer periphery having a notch formed therein for orienting the wafer in a stationary position during said removing unwanted debris. 2. The wafer of claim 1, wherein the ceramic material is selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof. 3. The wafer of claim 1, wherein the wafer has a substantially circular shape. 4. The wafer of claim 1, wherein the wafer has a thickness in a range from about is 20 mil to about 40 mil. 5. The wafer of claim 1, wherein a portion of the first surface of the wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 6. The wafer of claim 1, wherein the first surface has metal traces deposited thereon. 7. A wafer for cleaning a semiconductor device probe, the wafer comprising: a planar substrate with an outer periphery said substrate having a notch formed in said outer periphery for orienting the wafer; an abrasive material on the substrate for removing unwanted debris from said semiconductor device probe; and an opaque material on the substrate capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation energy through the substrate. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein at least a portion of the substrate is composed of a ceramic material. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the ceramic material is selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein said nonionizing electromagnetic radiation energy is infrared light. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein the substrate has a thickness in a range from about 20 mil to about 40 mil. 12. The system of claim 7, wherein the substrate has a substantially circular shape. 13. The system of claim 7, wherein the substrate has a thickness in a range from about 10 mil to about 50 mil. 14. The system of claim 7, wherein a portion of the substrate is made of an electrically conductive material. 15. The system of claim 7, wherein the substrate has metal traces deposited on a surface thereof. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the metal traces are gold traces. 17. A wafer for cleaning a semiconductor device probe, the wafer a first surface including a material for removing unwanted debris from semiconductor device probe, said material being selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof, a second surface opposing said first surface the second surface having a coating thereon for blocking transmission therethrough of infrared light energy, and a circular outer periphery between the first and second surfaces, the outer periphery having a notch formed therein for orienting the wafer in a stationary position during said removing unwanted debris. 18. The wafer of claim 17, wherein the wafer has a thickness in a range from about 20 mil to about 40 mil. 19. The wafer of claim 17, wherein a portion of the first surface of the wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 20. The wafer of claim 17, wherein the first surface has metal traces deposited thereon. 