Methods and apparatus for configuring process, environmental, industrial and other control systems generate and/or utilize models representing configurations of control systems and/or the systems controlled by them. Records of changes to the models or the configurations represented by them are maintained, thereby, for example, providing bases for determining current states, prior states and histories of changes. Objects in the model have characteristics, such as an object type characteristic and an area characteristic. Users can have corresponding permissions. A security mechanism apparatus controls access by users to the objects. Composite objects are defined by definition objects and are displayed in encapsulated or expanded formats. Objects can include an edit control type identifier that determines how they are presented for editing. Functionality responds to user commands by transferring characteristics of a first object depicted by the graphical user interface to a second object. Configuration-time formulas contained objects are evaluated to constants prior to downloading to the control system.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A digital data processing device that executes programming that configures that device as an apparatus for use with a control system or a system controlled thereby, the apparatus comprising: an object instantiated in a program that executes on the digital data processing device, the object representing one or more entities in any of the control system or the system controlled thereby, the object having an appearance parameter identifying one or more aspects of an appearance of the object in a view (i) in which that object may be depicted and (ii) which includes one or more live data values for one or more other parameters associated with the object, and at least one of those other parameters including any of a formula, mathematical operation, mathematical statement, and function (collectively, "formula") that executes on the digital data processing device as part of the object, wherein the object inherits its appearance parameter from an ancestor object. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the formula relates the one or more parameters in the object to any of (i) parameters in a same or another object, (iv) a connection, and (v) a tag. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the digital data processing device is any of: engineering workstation, personal computer, mainframe computer. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the aforesaid view is of live data values for the object when it is checked-in from any of editing or modification. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the entity includes any of a field device, control processor, block, loop, compound, historian, object type category, objection connection, parameter connection, display placeholder, graphical display entity, and report. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the aforesaid other parameters associated with the object serves in a source and sink relationship with a parameter of another object. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the aforesaid other parameters associated with the object includes an alarm limit. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object models the entity associated with the object. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object defines connections to external hardware tags for the entity associated with the object. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the aforesaid other parameters associated with the object includes a status. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object includes connector graphics for use in graphical display of the object. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein any of an input and an output associated with an aforesaid other parameter associated with the object has a connection relationship with any of an output and an input to another object. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object represents an entity in a plant and at least one of the aforesaid other parameters represents any of physical connection, electrical connection, serial connection, field bus connection, logical connection, block connection, or fluid connection of that entity. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein a connection represented by said at least one of the aforesaid other parameters includes an endpoint designated as a source and an endpoint designated as a sink. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a change to the ancestor object updates the object. 16. A digital data processing device that executes programming that configures that device as an apparatus for configuring any of a control system or system controlled thereby, the apparatus comprising: an editor executing on the digital data processing device that displays at least a portion of a configuration of said control system or said system controlled thereby and that includes, in such display, one or more objects representing one or more entities in such control system or system controlled thereby, at least one of the one or more objects being a composite object made up of one or more other objects; one or more of the other objects being associated with: an appearance parameter identifying one or more aspects of an appearance of the object in a view (i) in which that object may be depicted and (ii) which includes one or more live data values for other parameters associated with the object, wherein the object inherits its appearance parameter from an ancestor object, and at least one of those other parameters including any of a formula, mathematical operation, mathematical statement, and function (collectively, "formula") that executes as part of the one or more other objects. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the one or more entities represented by one or more objects comprise any of: a field device, control device, control processor, block, loop, compound, historian, object type category, object connection, parameter connection, display placeholder, graphical display entity, and report. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the one or more entities represented by one or more objects include any of: sites, areas, process cells, units, and other entities of a control level hierarchy. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the composite object represents any of a control block, a composite block, and a control loop. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a plurality of template objects for use by a user to configure any of the control system or the system controlled thereby. 21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein at least one of the aforesaid other parameters includes an alarm limit. 22. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein at least one of the one or more other objects represents an entity in a plant and at least one of the aforesaid other parameters represents any of physical connection, electrical connection, serial connection, field bus connection, logical connection, block connection, or fluid connection of that entity. 23. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein at least one of the one or more other objects defines connections to external hardware tags for the entity associated with that object. 24. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the editor displays at least a portion of a configuration of said control system or said system controlled thereby that includes two or more of said composite objects. 25. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein a change to the ancestor object updates the Object. 26. A digital data processing device that executes programming that configures that device as an apparatus for use with any of a control system or a system controlled thereby, the apparatus comprising: a connection object instantiated in a program that executes on the digital data processing device, the connection object being representative of relationships between one or more other objects, each representing one or more entities in any of the control system or the system controlled thereby, and an apparatus for configuring the control system; each of the one or more objects having an appearance parameter identifying one or more aspects of an appearance of the object in a view (i) in which that object may be depicted and (ii) which includes one or more live data values for other parameters associated with the object, wherein the object inherits its appearance parameter from an ancestor object; at least one of those other parameters including any of a formula, mathematical operation, mathematical statement, and function (collectively, "formula") that executes on the digital data processing device as part of the object; and wherein at least one of the aforesaid other parameters serves in a source/sink relationship with a parameter of another object. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the object represents an entity in a plant and at least one of the aforesaid other parameters represents any of a physical connection, electrical connection, serial connection, field bus connection, logical connection, block connection, or fluid connection of that entity. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein a connection represented by said at least one of the aforesaid other parameters includes an endpoint designated as a source and an endpoint designated as a sink. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the object defines connections to external hardware tags for the entity associated with the object. 30. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein a change to the ancestor object updates the object. 