A part feeder system includes a shipping container having a web of connected parts and a part presentation unit which performs work on the parts prior to installation or assembly of the finished parts. In another aspect of the present invention, the web of parts is automatically fed from the shipping container to the part presentation unit when the shipping container is in a predetermined position relative to the part presentation unit.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated system for use with a set of joined parts, the apparatus comprising: a container operable to store the parts; and a unit having a part feeding station, a part separating station and a part presentation station; the container being movable relative to the unit such that if the container is positioned adjacent the unit, the feeding station is operable to automatically withdraw the joined parts from the container; the feeding station being operable to transfer the joined parts to the separating station wherein the parts are operably detached from each other; and the part presentation station being operable to allow removal of the separated parts from the unit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an initial part feeding mechanism located in the container, the initial part feeding mechanism being operable to initially expose the parts from the container for access by the feeding station of the unit. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a reel located in the container, the reel being operable to store the joined parts in a spiraling manner, and the reel being rotatable to advance the parts from the container to the unit. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the initial feeding mechanism includes a pair of rollers operably pulling a plurality of the parts from the reel and then pushing the plurality of parts external to the container to allow engagement of at least some of these parts by the feeding station inside the unit. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a pinion gear coupled to at least one of the rollers of the initial feeding mechanism; and a rack having a set of gear teeth engagably driving the pinion gear and rollers when a portion of the unit actuates the rack. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a second reel located in the container, the second reel being operable to store the joined parts in a spiraling manner, and the reel being rotatable to advance the parts from the container to the unit. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a part alignment mechanism located in the unit and being operable to assure proper alignment of the joined parts to encourage proper separation of at least a pair of the parts at the separation station. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the alignment mechanism includes a pilot pin engagable with a feature movable with the joined parts, the separation station being prevented from separating at least a pair of the parts if the alignment mechanism indicates improper alignment of the parts. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the separation station includes a punch which operably severs an adjacent pair of the parts. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a sensor located in the unit operably sensing the presence of the parts in the unit; the feeding station in the unit includes a pair of rotatable rollers and a roller actuator; and the roller actuator being energizable to cause the rollers in the unit to pull the joined parts from the container and into the unit if the sensor determines that the joined parts are present in the unit. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a robot operable to remove a part made accessible in the part presentation station; and a second actuator moving the accessible part away from the part separation station after the part is separated. 12. An automated part feeder system comprising: a web of attached parts; a movable shipping container storing the web of parts, the shipping container having a part feeding mechansim; and a part processing unit operable to separate the parts from the web; the web of parts being automatically fed from the container to the unit when the container is positioned at a predetermined location relative to the unit, the parts being separated from each other in the unit subsequent to automatic feeding of the web into the unit. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the web of parts are a series of stamped metal parts connected together by separable bridging segments. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein each part is an automotive vehicle bracket. 15. The system of claim 12 wherein the unit includes a second part feeding mechanism, a part separating station and a part presentation station. 16. A part handling system comprising: a shipping container having a reel of parts; a part processing unit having a tool acting on the parts thereby causing undesired scrap, the container being removably attachable to the unit, the parts being transportable from the container to the unit; and a chute located in the unit operably transporting the scrap from the tool to the container such that removal of the container from the unit allows for removal of at least a majority of the scrap from the unit. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the tool separates at least one of the parts from a web joining multiple of the parts. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the tool is a punch which removes a connecting segment that joins adjacent of the parts together. 19. The system of claim 16 further comprising a feeding mechanism operable to automatically transport the parts from the container to the unit when the container is placed in a predetermined location relative to the unit. 20. A method for feeding parts comprising: (a) stamping parts as part of a metal strip; (b) winding the metal strip with the stamped parts on a reel; (c) storing the reel in a shipping container; (d) feeding the parts from the reel into a separately housed part presentation unit; (e) removing the parts from the strip; and (f) conveying scrap from the metal strip left over from step (e) to the shipping container. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising sequentially feeding the parts to an automatic welding device. 22. The method of claim 20 further comprising: (a) moving the shipping container toward the part presentation unit; (b) contacting a first member of the part presentation unit against a second member of the shipping container; and (c) automatically feeding the strip from the reel to the part presentation unit in response to step (b). 23. A method of transporting parts from a removable shipping container to a substantially stationary processing unit positioned on a moving assembly line, the method comprising: (a) loading the container at a location remote to the processing unit; (b) moving the container to a predetermined locational range adjacent the unit; (c) actuating an automatic part feeding mechanism after step (b); (d) sensing the presence of at least one of: (i) the container relative to the unit, and (ii) the parts in the unit; (e) automatically advancing the parts from the container to a part separating station in response to step (c); and (f) removing the separated parts from the unit. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising rotating a reel containing a set of the parts which are joined together in the container. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising inserting a member between a pair of the parts in the unit to ensure alignment of a part separating punch. 26. The method of claim 23 further comprising removing separated ones of the parts from the unit with a robot. 27. The method of claim 26 further comprising automatically welding the removed part to a workpiece on a moving assembly line. 28. An automated part feeder system comprising: a part storage container; at least one part pallet moveable relative to the part storage container; at least one reel mountable to the pallet; and a web of attached parts wound around the reel. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising a brake operable to stop the rotation of the reel. 30. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising a guide operably controlling the direction of movement of the parts when they are fed from the reel. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the part storage container is mobile. 32. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein each pallet has at least one roller to facilitate the rotation of the reel. 