An apparatus and method for thermally cycling a reaction mixture in a reaction vessel to expose the mixture to the varying temperatures necessary to, for example, achieve PCR amplification or the preparation of sequencing fragments using a cycle sequencing operation makes use of flow-through reaction vessels, such as capillary tubes, for the preparation and thermal cycling of reaction mixtures. In order to prevent loss of the reaction mixture from the vessels during heating, the thermal cycling apparatus of the invention provides means for sealing the proximal and distal end of each reaction vessel. The proximal ends can be sealed by coupling to a pump which permits movement of the samples within the reaction vessels. As to the distal ends, the reaction vessels can be sealed by pressing the distal end of each vessel against a sealing element with a conformable surface, or by immersing the distal end of each vessel in the reservoir of liquid, preferably of an oil, that is not miscible with the reaction mixture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for thermocycling a reaction mixture contained within a hollow tubular reaction vessel having open proximal and distal ends, comprising: (a) a housing for receiving a hollow tubular reaction vessel; (b) means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; (c) means for reversibly sealing the proximal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; and (d) means for controlling the temperature of a reaction mixture within the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing, wherein the means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing comprises a sealing element disposed within the housing and having a conformable surface which forms a seal with the distal end of the reaction vessel when the distal end of the reaction vessel is pressed into contact with the conformable surface, further comprising means for transporting the sealing element to provide a clean portion thereof for contact with reaction vessels during successive uses of the apparatus. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the means for transporting the sealing element comprises a driven roller. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the conformable surface is a strip which remains intact upon breaking the seal with each of the reaction vessels. 4. An apparatus for thermocycling a reaction mixture contained within a hollow tubular reaction vessel having open proximal and distal ends, comprising: (a) a housing for receiving a hollow tubular reaction vessel; (b) means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; (c) means for reversibly sealing the proximal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; and (d) means for controlling the temperature of a reaction mixture within the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing, wherein the means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing comprises a reservoir filled with a liquid which is not miscible with the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction vessel. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the liquid is an oil. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the means for controlling the temperature of a reaction mixture within the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing comprises a plurality of temperature control elements arranged in a linear array extending parallel to the axis of the reaction vessel disposed in the housing, said temperature control elements providing regions of at least two distinct temperatures within the reaction vessel; and means for moving a reaction mixture in a reaction vessel disposed within the housing relative to the temperature control elements, whereby the reaction mixture is exposed to thermal cycling. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the means for sealing the proximal end of a reaction vessel disposed within the housing is a pump, and wherein said pump also functions as the means for moving a reaction mixture relative to the temperature control elements. 8. An apparatus for forming a reaction mixture from each of a plurality of liquid samples in each of a corresponding plurality of hollow tubular reaction vessels having open proximal and distal ends and exposing the reaction mixture in the reaction vessels to a predetermined program of temperature variations, comprising: (a) a pipetting region comprising one or more supports for holding one or more containers of liquid samples and reagents; (b) a pump operatively connectable to the proximal end of each of the reaction vessels for moving a liquid sample into and out of each of the reaction vessels; (c) a thermal cycling region comprising a thermocycling apparatus, said thermocycling apparatus comprising a housing for receiving a hollow tubular reaction vessel; means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; means for reversibly sealing the proximal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; and means for controlling the temperature of a reaction mixture within the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing; and (d) a robotic transference element for moving each of the reaction vessels having a reaction mixture therein from the pipetting region to the thermal cycling region and placing the distal ends of the reactions vessels into sealing contact with the means for reversibly sealing said distal ends, and for moving each of the reaction vessels from the thermal cycling region to the pipetting region. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing comprises a sealing element disposed within the housing and having a conformable surface which forms an air-tight seal with the distal open end of each of the reaction vessels when the distal open end of each of the reaction vessels is pressed into contact with the conformable surface. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising means for transporting the sealing element to provide a clean portion thereof for contact with reaction vessels during successive uses of the apparatus. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the means for transporting the sealing element comprises a driven roller. 12. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the conformable surface is a strip which remains intact upon breaking the seal with each of the reaction vessels. 13. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the means for reversibly sealing the distal end of the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing comprises a reservoir filled with a liquid which is not miscible with the reaction mixture disposed in the reaction vessel. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the liquid is an oil. 15. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the means for controlling the temperature of a reaction mixture within the hollow tubular reaction vessel received within the housing comprises a plurality of temperature control elements arranged in a linear array extending parallel to the axis of the reaction vessel disposed in the housing, said temperature control elements providing regions of at least two distinct temperatures within the reaction vessel; and means for moving a reaction mixture in a reaction vessel disposed within the housing relative to the temperature control elements, whereby the reaction mixture is exposed to thermal cycling. 16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the means for sealing the proximal end of a reaction vessel disposed within the housing is a pump, and wherein said pump also functions as the means for moving a reaction mixture relative to the temperature control elements. 