A reusable test socket is described for testing fine pitch devices including singulated bare die, semiconductor wafers, chip sized packages, printed circuit boards, and the like to determine that the fine pitch device is not faulty. The socket contains a circuit pad pattern in the mirror image of the pattern of contact points, usually bond pads of the fine pitch device to be tested. Each pad of the socket contains a conductive elastomeric probe which has been "screened" onto the bond pad. The socket also contains an alignment template for orienting the fine pitch device onto the elastomeric probes of the contact point pattern of the test socket. Additionally, the socket can be a singular piece or it can be made of two main pieces; the first being a socket, and the second being a test board designed to mate with the socket. The disclosed invention also includes a method of using the reusable test socket which includes the steps of placing the fine pitch device onto the test socket, placing the socket into electrical continuity with test equipment and conducting electrical tests at ambient as well as elevated temperatures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A carrier system, comprising: a substantially planar substrate having at least one circuit pad thereon; at least one elastomeric probe in the form of a smooth-ended, conductive polymer bump, said at least one elastomeric probe permanently mounted upon said at least one circuit pad; and an alignment template with an aperture approximating the shape of a fine pitch device, said alignment template for guiding the placement of said fine pitch device having one or more contacts, relative to said at least one circuit pad, wherein said at least one elastomeric probe facilitates a temporary electrical connection between said at least one circuit pad and one of said one or more contacts when said fine pitch device is placed in proximate position relative to said substantially planar substrate. 2. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a probe card. 3. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a bare printed circuit board. 4. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a populated printed circuit board. 5. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a chip-scale package. 6. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a bare die. 7. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a semiconductor wafer. 8. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a ball grid array device. 9. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a ceramic ball grid array device. 10. The carrier system of claim 1, wherein said fine pitch device is a single die of and attached to a semiconductor wafer. 11. A carrier system, comprising: a substrate having a contact pad thereon; an elastomeric probe formed on said contact pad, said probe for facilitating a temporary electrical connection between said contact pad and a corresponding contact point of an electrical device; and a thermal electric cooler positioned on top of, and in thermal communication with, said electrical device to urge said electrical device against the elastomeric probe and to change the temperature of said electrical device. 12. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a probe card. 13. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a printed circuit board. 14. The carrier system of claim 13, wherein said printed circuit board comprises a populated board area. 15. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a chip-scale package. 16. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a semiconductor wafer. 17. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a ball grid array package. 18. The carrier system of claim 17, wherein said ball grid array package comprises a ceramic portion. 19. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a singulated die. 20. The carrier system of claim 11, wherein said electrical device comprises a semiconductor die attached to a wafer. 21. A carrier system, comprising: a carrier having a plurality of contact pads deposed on a top surface of said carrier and at least three individual leads deposed on a bottom surface of said carrier, at least one of said plurality of contact pads in electrical communication with at least one of said at least three individual leads, said at least three individual leads arranged so as to matedly engage a socket connector; and malleable means formed on at least one of said plurality of contact pads, said malleable means permanently and rigidly bonded to said at least one of said plurality of contact pads, for facilitating a temporary electrical connection between said at least one of said plurality of contact pads and a corresponding contact point of an electrical device. 22. The carrier system of claim 21, wherein said malleable means comprises a conductive polymer bump formed by a screen print. 23. The carrier system of claim 21, wherein said malleable means comprises a conductive polymer bump formed by a stencil print. 24. The carrier system of claim 21, wherein said malleable means comprises a conductive polymer bump formed by photolithography. 