A method and device for sensing the distance between a first object and a second object so as to activate or facilitate predetermined actions when the distance has attained a certain value. A person (1) (first object) holds a handle (2) of a power tool, the handle being connected to a function generator (6) for a signal in turn connected to a unit (7) for encoding or modulating the signal. A capacitance (C1) exists between the hand of a person (1) and the handle (2). A capacitance (C2) exists between the person (1) and the active portion (4) (second object) of the tool connected to a demodulator or tone decoder (8) in turn connected to a control unit (9) incorporating the control circuitry. The control unit (9) controls the security system (10) in turn controlling the protective measures such as braking or power cut-off (11). The control unit (9) also controls an alarm and self-testing circuitry (11a).
Claims I claim: 1. A method for sensing the distance between a first object and a second object being moved relative to each other and for-activating or facilitating a predetermined action or predetermined actions when said distance has attained a value including zero, the method comprising the steps of transmitting a capacitive proximity signal between a transmitting system and a receiving system, the first object and the second object each constituting an integral part of a respective one of the systems and a part of the signal path of the proximity signal, and the proximity signal providing indication of distance between the first object and the second object, and monitoring the proximity signal for sensing variations of the signal as the first object and the second object are moved relative to each other, and activating the predetermined action when the signal has attained a predetermined condition. 2. A method according to claim 1 for protecting the first object from interaction with the second object. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the second object is an active portion of an apparatus, the proximity signal provides indication of distance between the object and the active portion, and the predetermined action comprises activating a protective operation for preventing the first object from interaction with the active portion when the proximity signal indicates that the distance is shorter than a predetermined security distance. 4. A method according to claim 3, further comprising at least one of the steps: interrupting supply of energy for at least part of the active portion, braking at least part of the active portion, displacing the active portion and/or the object in a predetermined direction or predetermined directions, positioning barrier means in a predetermined position in relation to either the active portion or the object or both, activating means for ameliorating the effects of the interaction between the object and the active portion, and generating an audible and/or a visible and/or a tactile alarm. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the intensity of the proximity signal is indicative of the distance between the first object and the second object. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the frequency of substantially regular oscillations of the proximity signal is indicative of the distance between the first object and the second object. 7. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of encoding the proximity signal whereby the proximity signal is made distinguishable from irrelevant extraneous signals. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of transmitting a proximity signal comprises the steps of: forming an electronic circuit comprising the object and the active portion, applying an alternating voltage to the electronic circuit, and wherein indicating that the distance between the object and the active portion is shorter than a predetermined security distance comprises the steps of: detecting alternating current flowing in the circuit in response to the alternating voltage, and indicating that a parameter of the alternating current attains a predetermined reference value. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the action of the active portion may only be initiated if the proximity signal is being received with an intensity above a predetermined check intensity and/or an automatic check routine of the protective operations indicates that they are able to function properly. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined operation is activated if the intensity of the received proximity signal increases above a predetermined check intensity. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein a second signal is transmitted by the transmitting system, the action of the active portion not being started or, if already having been started, being interrupted if the second signal is not received by the receiving system and/or an automatic check routine of the protective operations indicates that they are not able to function properly. 12. A method according to claim 7 wherein the current, prior to the comparison, is filtered to dampen alternating current components having frequencies different from predetermined frequencies. 13. A method according to claim 8, further comprising the steps of: superimposing a code on the alternating voltage, monitoring the alternating voltage for recognition of the code, and applying the recognition as a prerequisite for enabling the activation of protective operations. 14. A method according to claim 1 and for measuring at least one distance between a measuring probe or the like and a surface portion of a body, the method comprising the steps of: applying an alternating voltage to one of the probe and the surface portion, locating or positioning the probe at at least one well-defined distance from the surface portion, registering and storing the value of the amplitude of the current capacitively transmitted by the alternating voltage through the other of the probe and the surface portion, subsequently comparing the stored value with a new registered value corresponding to a different distance of the probe from the surface portion, utilizing the result of the comparison as a measure of the value of the different distance. 15. A method according to claim 1 and for locating or positioning a first element at at least one certain point along a well-defined trajectory with respect to a second element, the method comprising the steps of: applying an alternating voltage to one of the elements, locating or positioning the first element at at least one well-defined location along the trajectory, for each location registering and storing the value of the amplitude of the current capacitively transmitted by the alternating voltage through the second element, subsequently moving the first element along the trajectory while comparing the stored value with the new values of the amplitude being monitored, stopping the first element in its movement along the trajectory when the relevant stored value is equal to the new value. 16. A method of identifying a human incorporating the features defined in claim 1. 17. A device for protecting an object from interaction with an active portion of an apparatus, having an electronic circuit comprising the object and the active portion capacitively connected in series, generating means for generating an alternating voltage and connected in series with the object and the active portion, monitoring means for detecting alternating current flowing through the object in response to the alternating voltage and for generating an output signal when a parameter of the alternating current attains a predetermined reference value, and protecting means for preventing the object from interaction with the active portion and activated in response to the output signal. 18. A device according to claim 17, wherein the protecting means comprise at least one of the following: disconnecting means for disconnecting at least part of the power supply to the active portion, braking means for braking at least part of the action of the active portion, modifying means for modifying the action, displacing means for displacing the active portion or the object or both in a predetermined direction or predetermined direction, barrier means for being displaced into a predetermined position in relation to either the active portion or the object or both, ameliorating means for ameliorating the effects of the action on the object, and warning means for emitting an audible and/or a visible and/or a tactile alarm. 19. A device according to claim 17, wherein the alternating voltage has a predetermined constant frequency. 20. A device according to claim 17, wherein the monitoring means comprise filtering means for filtering the current in order to attenuate alternating current components having a frequency different from frequencies of the alternating voltage. 21. A device according to claim 17, wherein the generating means further comprise coding means for encoding the proximity signal with a code, and the monitoring means further comprises recognizing means for recognition of the code and enabling means for enabling activation of the protecting means upon recognition of the code. 22. A device according to claim 17, wherein the generating means operates at frequencies in the range of 10 Hz-200 kHz. 23. A device according to claim 17, wherein the operating frequencies are in the range of 1 kHz-150 kHz. 24. A device according to claim 17, wherein the operating frequencies are in the range of 10 kHz-100 kHz. 25. A device according to claim 17, incorporated in a hand-held electrical hedge-cutting power tool comprising a conductive blade member, an electrical motor for operating the blade member and a power cable for connecting the motor to a power source, the device comprising generating means connected to one or more of the conductors of the cable for applying an alternating voltage thereto, a conductor interconnecting the blade member with the monitoring means, a conductor interconnecting the monitoring means with the activating means. 26. A device according to claim 25, wherein the device further comprises an interrupter switch for the power supply to the motor and connected with the output signal. 27. A device according to claim 25, wherein the device further comprises braking means for braking the cutting action of the blade member and electrically interconnected with the activating means. 28. A device according to claim 25, wherein the power cable at least along a substantial part of the length thereof adjacent the tool comprises a dummy conductor additional to the power conductors, the generating means being connected to the dummy conductor for applying an alternating voltage thereto. 29. A device according to claim 25, wherein the blade member comprises a conductive element extending along at least part of the length of the blade member and being electrically insulated therefrom, the conductive element being electrically connected to the monitoring means and the rest of the blade member being electrically insulated therefrom. 30. A device according to claim 29, wherein the conductive element is entirely enclosed in the rest of the blade member. 31. A device according to claim 17, wherein the generating means and the monitoring means are arranged in an individual unit arranged externally of the apparatus, for instance on a power supply cable for the apparatus, the individual unit being provided with communicating means for communicating a signal to or from the monitoring means and the generating means from or to the active portion and the object, respectively. 32. A device according to claim 17 and for measuring at least one distance between a measuring probe or the like and a surface portion of a body, the device comprising: applying means for applying an alternating voltage to one of the probe and the surface portion, locating means for locating or positioning the probe at at least one well-defined distance from the surface portion, registering and storing means for registering and storing the value of the amplitude of the current capacitively transmitted by the alternating voltage through the other of the probe and the surface portion, comparing means for subsequently comparing the stored value with a new registered value corresponding to a different distance of the probe from the surface portion. 33. A device according to claim 17 and for locating or positioning a first element at at least one certain point along a well-defined trajectory with respect to a second element, the device comprising: applying means for applying an alternating voltage to one of the elements, locating means for locating or positioning the first element at at least one well-defined location along the trajectory, registering and storing means for registering and storing, for each such location, the value of the amplitude of the current capacitively transmitted by the alternating voltage through the second element, monitoring means for monitoring the new values of the amplitude while subsequently moving the first element along the trajectory, comparing means for comparing the stored value with the new values of the amplitude, stopping means for stopping the first element in its movement along the trajectory when the relevant stored value is equal to the new value. 34. A hand-held hedge cutting power tool incorporating a device having the features defined in claim 17. 35. A hand-held chain-saw incorporating a device having the features defined in claim 17. 36. A portable apparatus incorporating a device having the features defined in claim 17. 37. A stationary apparatus incorporating a device having the features defined in claim 17. 38. An apparatus for identification of a human incorporating a device having the features defined in claim 17. 