A load cell combines the outputs of a plurality of strain gauges to measure components of an applied load. Combination of strain gauge outputs allows measurement of any of six load components without requiring complex machining or mechanical linkages to isolate load components. An example six axis load cell produces six independent analog outputs which can be combined to determine any one of the six general load components.
Claims We claim: 1. A load cell comprising: a) a body having a body axis, first and second ends, made of a material having a Poisson's ratio (v); b) first, second, and third strain gauges mounted with the body at azimuths different from each other and at orientations relative to the axis other than, 0 and 90 degrees; and c) fourth, fifth, and sixth strain gauges mounted with the body at azimuths different from each other and at orientations other than substantially ##EQU9## and substantially ##EQU10## 2. A load cell according to claim 1, wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted at orientations of substantially ##EQU11## or substantially ##EQU12## 3. A load cell according to claim 1, wherein the fourth, fifth, and sixth strain gauges are mounted at orientations of substantially 0 degrees or substantially 90 degrees. 4. A load cell according to claim 1, wherein the body has a substantially circular cross section, and wherein the plurality of strain gauges are mounted at substantially even azimuthal intervals about a circumference of the circle. 5. A load cell according to claim 1, wherein the body has a substantially rectangular cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of the rectangular cross section. 6. A load cell according to claim 1, wherein the body has a substantially polygonal cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of the polygonal cross section. 7. A load cell according to claim 6, wherein the body has a substantially rectangular cross section, and wherein the fourth, fifth, and sixth strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of the rectangular cross section. 8. A load cell comprising: a) a body having a body axis, first and second ends, adapted to receive a load applied made of a material having a Poisson's ratio (v); and b) first, second, and third strain gauges mounted with the body at azimuths different from each other and at orientations relative to the axis of substantially ##EQU13## or substantially ##EQU14## 9. A load cell according to claim 8, wherein the body has a substantially circular cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted at substantially even azimuthal intervals about a circumference of the circle. 10. A load cell according to claim 8, wherein the body has a substantially rectangular cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of the rectangular cross section. 11. A load cell according to claim 8, wherein the body has a substantially polygonal cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of the polygonal cross section. 12. A load cell comprising: a) a body having a body axis, first and second ends, made of a material having a Poisson's ratio (v); and b) first, second, and third strain gauges mounted with the body at azimuths different from each other and at orientations relative to the axis of substantially 0 degrees or substantially 90 degrees. 13. A load cell according to claim 12, wherein the body has a substantially circular cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted at substantially even azimuthal intervals about a circumference of the circle. 14. A load cell according to claim 12, wherein the body has a substantially rectangular cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of the rectangular cross section. 15. A load cell according to claim 12, wherein the body has a substantially polygonal cross section, and wherein the first, second, and third strain gauges are mounted with the body at locations corresponding to different faces of polygonal cross section. 