An automated machine tool is provided and includes a frame having a first workpiece transfer station at a first location on the frame; at least two self-contained processing units, each of the units including structure for holding the workpiece for processing and structure for performing a process on the workpiece; structure for sequentially indexing the processing units to the first workpiece transfer station for transferring workpieces to and from each of the processing units; a shared tool storing device; a first cutting tool transfer device for transferring cutting tools to and from the processing units; and a second cutting tool transfer device for transferring cutting tools between the first transfer device and the storing device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for machining workpieces, said machining system comprising: a first workpiece processing unit; a second workpiece processing unit; means for storing a plurality of cutting tools to be used in said first and second processing units; first transfer means for selectively transferring cutting tools between the storing means and each of the first and second processing units, said first transfer means comprising a) second transfer means for transferring cutting tools to and from said first and second processing units, said second transfer means comprising a carriage mounted on the frame for movement between a first location on said frame to effect transfer of cutting tools to and from said first processing unit and a second location on said frame to effect transfer of cutting tools to and from said second processing unit, said first location being spaced from said second location, said carriage comprising a ring-shaped carrier mounted on said frame for rotation about an axis; and b) third transfer means for transferring cutting tools between said storing means and said second transfer means. 2. A system for machining workpieces, said system comprising: a frame; a first tool spindle mounted on the frame; first means for storing a plurality of cutting tools to be used in said first tool spindle; second means for storing a plurality of cutting tools to be used in said first tool spindle; first transfer means for transferring cutting tools between said second storing means and said first storing means; and second transfer means for transferring cutting tools between said first tool spindle and said second storing means; a second tool spindle mounted on the frame; third means for storing a plurality of cutting tools to be used in said second tool spindle; third transfer means for transferring cutting tools between said second tool spindle and said third storing means; and wherein said first storing means comprises means for storing a plurality of cutting tools to be used in said second tool spindle, and said first transfer means comprises means for transferring cutting tools between said third storing means and said first storing means. 3. A method of tooling an automated machining system, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing a first processing unit; b) providing a second processing unit; c) providing a storing device for storing a plurality of tools to be used in the first and second processing units; d) providing a first transfer device for transferring tools to and from the first and second processing units; e) providing a second transfer device for transferring tools between the storage device and the first transfer device; f) transferring a first tool from the storage device to the first transfer device using the second transfer device; g) transferring the first tool to one of the first and second processing units using the first transfer device; and h) transferring a second tool from the storage device using the second transfer device. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein steps g and h are performed substantially simultaneously. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein step g includes repositioning the first transfer device relative to the one of the first and second processing units. 6. A system for machining workpieces, said machining system comprising: a frame; a first self-contained processing unit mounted on the frame for movement between a first location on said frame and a second location on said frame spaced from said first location; a second self-contained processing unit mounted on said frame for movement between said first and second locations; a shared tool stocker comprising a matrix of tool storage positions to store a plurality of cutting tools for use in said first and second processing units; and a cutting tool transfer device mounted on the frame to transfer cutting tools between the shared tool stocker and said first and second processing units at least at one of said first and second locations on said frame. 7. The machining system of claim 6 wherein said first and second locations are spaced circumferentially about an axis, and said first and second processing units are mounted on said frame for rotation about the axis between said first and second locations. 8. The machining system of claim 6 further comprising a machining debris shield that is mounted on said frame and surrounds said first and second processing units, a first automated opening and closing door in said shield at said first location to allow transfer of cutting tools through the shield, and a second automated opening and closing door at said second location to allow transfer of cutting tools through the shield. 9. The machining system of claim 6 wherein said cutting tool transfer device is mounted on said shared tool stocker. 10. The machining system of claim 6 wherein said first workpiece processing unit comprises a dedicated tool stocker to store a plurality of cutting tools to be used in said first workpiece processing unit. 11. The machining system of claim 10 wherein said first processing unit further comprises a tool spindle, and a dedicated transfer device to transfer cutting tools between the tool spindle and the dedicated tool stocker. 12. The machining system of claim 6 wherein said cutting tool transfer device comprises a carriage mounted on the frame for movement between said first and second locations. 13. The machining system of claim 12 wherein said cutting tool transfer device further comprises a cutting tool transfer device mounted on the frame to transfer cutting tools between the shared tool stocker and the carriage. 14. The machining system of claim 12 wherein said carriage comprises a ring-shaped carrier mounted on the frame for rotation about an axis. 15. A system for machining workpieces, said machining system comprising: a first self-contained processing unit including a first dedicated tool stocker; a second self-contained processing unit including a second dedicated tool stocker; a shared cutting tool stocker to store a plurality of cutting tools for use in the first and second processing units; a first cutting tool transfer device to remove cutting tools from the shared tool stocker; and a second cutting tool transfer device mounted on a frame for movement between a first position wherein cutting tools from the shared tool stocker are transferred to the second transfer device by the first transfer device, and a second position wherein the second transfer device transfers cutting tools to and from the first and second dedicated tool stockers. 16. A method of tooling an automated machining system, said method comprising the steps of: removing a first tool from a shared tool stocker using a first transfer device; transferring the first tool from the first transfer device to a second transfer device; transferring the first tool to a first dedicated tool stocker on a first self-contained processing unit using the second transfer device; removing a second tool from the shared tool stocker using the first transfer device; transferring the second tool from the first transfer device to the second transfer device; and transferring the second tool from the second transfer device to a second dedicated storage tool stocker on a second self-contained processing unit. 