An automated system for performing an operation on a component within a manufacturing workstation is disclosed. The system includes a robot controller having seven axes of motion control. A robotic manipulator is connected to the robot controller and has six axes of motion. The robotic manipulator includes tooling for grasping the component upon which the operation is performed. A fixed location tool is provided for performing the operation, and a servo mechanism is provided for operating the fixed location tool. The servo mechanism is controlled by one of the seven axes of motion control of the robot controller, whereby the robotic manipulator moves the component with respect to the fixed location tool for performing the operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated system for performing an operation on a component within a manufacturing workstation comprising: a robot controller having seven axes of motion control; a robotic manipulator connected to the robot controller and having six axes of motion, the robotic manipulator including tooling for grasping the component upon which the operation is performed; a fixed location tool for performing the operation; and a servo mechanism for operating the fixed location tool, the servo mechanism being controlled by one of the seven axes of motion control of the robot controller; whereby the robotic manipulator moves the component with respect to the fixed location tool for performing the operation. 2. The automated system of claim 1 wherein the fixed location tool is a sealant dispensing system. 3. The automated system of claim 2 wherein the sealant dispensing system dispenses RTV sealant. 4. The automated system of claim 1 wherein the robot controller generates a control signal for changing the angular speed and position of the servo mechanism. 5. The automated system of claim 4 wherein the servo mechanism includes a resolver unit for generating a feedback signal representing the angular speed and position of the servo mechanism. 6. The automated system of claim 1 wherein the servo mechanism is a servo motor. 7. A sealant dispensing system for dispensing a sealant to a component comprising: a controller having seven control channels for operating at least seven independent axes of motion; a six axis robotic manipulator connected to six of the seven control channels of the controller, the robotic manipulator operative for grasping the component arriving at a conveyor fed workstation; a fixed sealant dispensing unit positioned in proximity to the robotic manipulator, the sealant dispensing unit having a nozzle for dispensing the sealant; and a servo motor for driving the sealant dispensing unit, the servo motor being controlled by the seventh axis of the controller; whereby the robotic manipulator picks the component from the conveyor and manipulates the component with respect to the nozzle of the sealant dispenser for applying the sealant to the surface of the component. 8. The sealant dispensing system of claim 7 wherein the controller provides a control signal to the servo motor for controlling the speed and position of the servo motor. 9. The sealant dispensing system of claim 8 wherein the controller receives a feedback signal from the servo motor relating to the speed and position of the servo motor. 10. The sealant dispensing system of claim 9 wherein the controller operates the robotic manipulator and the servo motor in response to the feedback signal for dispensing a predetermined amount of the sealant to the component. 11. The sealant dispensing system of claim 7 wherein a supply pump provides sealant to the dispensing unit. 12. The sealant dispensing system of claim 7 wherein the dispensing unit includes a dispensing pump driven by the servo motor. 13. The sealant dispensing system of claim 7 wherein the dispensing unit includes a transducer for monitoring a supply pressure and a delivery pressure. 14. The sealant dispensing system of claim 7 wherein a single electronic panel is used for the controller and the dispensing unit. 15. The sealant dispensing system of claim 7 wherein the component is one of a rear axle cover, an oil pan, a valve cover, a transmission cover, and a gasket having a mating surface for receiving the sealant. 16. A sealant dispensing system for dispensing a sealant to a component comprising: a controller having at least seven control channels for operating at least seven independent axes of motion; a six axis robotic manipulator connected to six of the seven control channels of the controller, the robotic manipulator operative for grasping the component arriving at a conveyor fed workstation; a fixed sealant dispensing unit positioned in proximity to the robotic manipulator, the sealant dispensing unit having a nozzle for dispensing the sealant; and a servo motor for driving the sealant dispensing unit, the servo motor being controlled by the seventh axis of the controller and providing a feedback signal to the controller; whereby the robotic manipulator picks the component from the conveyor and manipulates the component with respect to the nozzle of the sealant dispenser for applying the sealant to the surface of the component. 17. The sealant dispensing system of claim 16 wherein the servo motor includes a resolver unit for generating the feedback signal, the feedback signal representing the angular speed and position of the servo motor. 18. The sealant dispensing system of claim 16 wherein at least one pressure transducer provides a signal to the controller representing the pressure of the sealant within the sealant dispenser. 19. The sealant dispensing system of claim 18 wherein the signal is used by the controller for controlling the pressure of the sealant within the sealant dispenser. 20. The sealant dispensing system of claim 16 wherein the dispensing unit includes a dispensing pump driven by the servo motor. 