A method and apparatus for constructing a three-dimensional object. There is provided a lamination unit for holding and pressing a block of material; a slicing unit for cutting the block to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface; a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into at least one planar element; and an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of the lamination means, the slicing means, and the profiling means. Formation occurs by providing the electronic means with the XYZ information, placing the block in a position for holding by the lamination means; slicing the block to provide the horizontal layer having the first working surface and the cut block having the second working surface; profiling at least one of the working surfaces to form the planar element having a shape corresponding to the computerized cross-section representation at that slicing level; pressing the second working surface of the cut block against the first working surface of the horizontial layer using the lamination means; and repeating the slicing and profiling steps until the object is formed.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a block of supply material, b. providing a lamination means for holding and pressing the block, c. providing a slicing means for cutting the block to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface, d. providing a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element, and e. providing an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of said lamination means, said slicing means, and said profiling means, and f. providing the electronic means with the XYZ information, g. placing the block in a position for holding by the lamination means, h. slicing the block using the slicing means to provide the horizontal layer having the first working surface and the cut block having the second working surface, the layer and the cut block each held by the lamination means, i. profiling at least one of the working surfaces using the profiling means to form the planar element having a shape corresponding to said computerized cross-section representation at that slicing level, j. pressing the second working surface of the block in step i against the layer of step i using the lamination means, and k. repeating said steps h, i, and j until the object is formed. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 3. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: l. applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, and m. profiling both of the working surfaces. 4. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: l. providing a carriage means for automated handling of the layer formed in step h, and m. providing a motion means for moving the carriage means between separate work stations, wherein various operations are performed on the layer by different tools at the work stations. 5. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: l. providing a carriage means for automated handling of the layer formed in step h, m. providing a motion means for moving the carriage means between separate work stations, wherein various operations are performed on the layer by different tools at the work stations, and n. applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 6. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: l. providing a carriage means for automated handling of the layer and the cut block formed in step h, m. providing a motion means for moving the carriage means between separate work stations, wherein various operations are performed on the layer and the cut block by different tools at the work stations, n. applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, and o. profiling both of the working surfaces. 7. A method of constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a block of supply material, b. providing a lamination means for holding and pressing the block, c. providing a slicing means for cutting the block to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface, d. providing a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element, and e. providing an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of said lamination means, said slicing means, and said profiling means; the lamination means has a first part and a second part, where the first part holds the block and the cut block after slicing of the block and the second part holds the horizontial layer and where a vertical distance between the first part and the second part is controlled by the electronic means to position the block in the correct position for slicing and profiling, and f. providing the electronic means with the XYZ information, g. placing the block in a position for holding by the lamination means, h. slicing the block using the slicing means to provide the horizontal layer having the first working surface and the cut block having the second working surface, the layer and the cut block each held by the lamination means, i. profiling at least one of the working surfaces using the profiling means to form the planar element having a shape corresponding to said computerized cross-section representation at that slicing level, j. pressing the second working surface of the block in step i against the layer of step i using the lamination means, and k. repeating said steps h, i, and j until the object is formed. 8. The method of claim 7 further including the step of applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 9. The method of claim 7 further including the steps of: l. applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, and m. profiling both of the working surfaces. 10. The method of claim 7 further including the steps of: l. providing a carriage means for automated handling of the layer formed in step h, m. providing a motion means for moving the carriage means between separate work stations, wherein various operations are performed on the layer by different fools at the work stations, and n. applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 11. The method of claim 7 further including the steps of: l. providing a carriage means for automated handling of the layer formed in step h, m. providing a motion means for moving the carriage means between separate work stations, wherein various operations are performed on the layer by different tools at the work stations, n. applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, and o. profiling both of the working surfaces. 12. An apparatus for constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the apparatus comprising: a. a lamination means for holding and pressing a block of supply material, b. a slicing means for cutting the block held by the lamination means to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface, c. a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element while both the cut block and the horizontal layer are held by the lamination means, and d. an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for coordinating said lamination means, said slicing means, and said profiling means to form the object. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further including an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 further including: e. an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, and f. that the profiling means is able to profile both the working surfaces. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further including: e. an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, f. at least one carriage for holding the layers where the at least one carriage is capable of automated motion between work stations, and g. a motion means for moving the at least one carriage between the work stations, wherein operations are performed on the layers at the work stations. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 further including: e. an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, f. a plurality of carriages for holding the layers and the cut blocks where the plurality of carriages are capable of automated motion between work stations, g. a motion means for moving the carriages between the work stations, wherein operations are performed on the layers and the cut blocks at the work stations, and h. that the profiling means is able to profile both the working surfaces. 17. An apparatus for constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the apparatus comprising: a. a lamination means for holding and pressing a block of supply material, b. a slicing means for cutting said block held by the lamination means to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface, c. a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element while both the cut block and the horizontal layer are held by the lamination means, and d. an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for coordinating said lamination means, said slicing means, and said profiling means to form the object; the lamination means has a first part and a second part where the first part holds the block and the cut block after slicing of the block and the second part holds the horizontal layer and where a vertical distance between the first part and the second part is controlled by the electronic means to position the block in the correct position for slicing and profiling. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further including an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 further including: e. an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, and f. that the profiling means is able to profile both the working surfaces. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 further including: e. an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, f. at least one carriage for holding the layers where the at least one carriage is capable of automated motion between work stations, and g. a motion means for moving the at least one carriage between the work stations, wherein operations are performed on the layers at the work stations. 21. The apparatus of claim 17 further including: e. an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers, f. a plurality of carriages for holding the layers and the cut blocks and where the plurality of carriages are capable of automated motion between work stations, g. a motion means for moving the carriages between the work stations, wherein operations are performed on the layers and the cut blocks at the work stations, and h. that the profiling means is able to profile both the working surfaces. 