A programmable assembly toy including a multiplicity of toy elements which are joinable to define a player selectable structure including a plurality of controllable toy elements which are joinable by a player with the selectable structure, and a player programmable control system for controlling the operation of the plurality of controllable toy elements.
Claims We claim: 1. A programmable assembly toy system comprising: a personal computer; a multiplicity of toy elements which are joinable to define a player selectable structure, the multiplicity of toy elements including: a plurality of controllable toy elements; and at least one controller; wherein the at least one controller has a data flow relationship with the personal computer, thereby to provide indirect control of said controllable toy elements by the personal computer, and wherein said at least one controller is remote from said computer and is operative to receive a logic command from the computer and to convert said logic command into an output signal actuating at least one of the plurality of controllable toy elements. 2. A programmable assembly toy according to claim 1 and also comprising a toy application generator useful with said player programmable control system for enabling a player to program said player programmable control system. 3. A programmable assembly toy according to claim 2 and wherein said toy application generator provides multiple levels of programming ease so as to be suitable for use by players of different ages and skill levels. 4. A programmable assembly toy according to claim 1 and wherein said multiplicity of toy elements comprises interlocking building blocks. 5. A programmable assembly toy according to claim 1 wherein said player programmable control system is wirelessly associated with at least one of said multiplicity of toy elements. 6. A toy according to claim 1 wherein said player programmable control system comprises a computer; and wherein said multiplicity of toy elements includes: a first toy element having a radio transceiver/controller; and a second toy element associated by wire with said computer and including: a radio transceiver operative to provide radio communication between said computer and said first toy element; and a controller operative to control said second toy element. 7. A toy according to claim 1 wherein said player programmable control system comprises: a computer; a computer radio interface communicating commands to the player selectable structure; and a sound board device having at least one audio channel over which commands from the computer are transmitted to the computer radio interface over the at least one audio channel. 8. A toy according to claim 7 and also comprising an audio channel from the computer radio interface to the sound board device over which digital information arriving from the player selectable structure is transmitted to the computer. 9. A toy according to claim 1 wherein said multiplicity of toy elements comprise at least one microphone and wherein said control system comprises a speech recognition unit operative to recognize speech sensed by said at least one microphone and an speech-driven operation controller for controlling the operation of the plurality of controllable toy elements at least partly in accordance with contents of said speech. 10. A system according to claim 1 wherein said at least one controller comprises a microprocessor. 11. A system according to claim 1 wherein said at least one controller has a data receiving relationship with the computer. 12. A system according to claim 1 wherein said at least one controller has a data feeding relationship with the computer. 13. A system according to claim 11 wherein said at least one controller has a data feeding relationship with the computer. 14. A system according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the controllable toy elements comprises an electrical device. 15. A system according to claim 1 wherein said toy elements interlock to define the player selectable structure and said controllable toy elements are interlockable by the player with the selectable structure and at least one of said controllers is interlockable to individual ones of said multiplicity of toy elements. 16. A system according to claim 1 wherein said at least one controller comprise a plurality of controllers. 17. A system according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of controllable toy elements comprises at least one actuator. 18. A system according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of controllable toy elements comprises at least one sensor. 19. A system according to claim 1 wherein the data flow relationship between the computer and said at least one controller is provided by a wireless communication link. 20. A system according to claim 1 wherein the data flow relationship between the computer and said at least one controller is provided by a wired communication link. 21. A system according to claim 1 wherein the personal computer sends at least one command to the controller which includes a sequence of actions to be performed. 22. A toy control method comprising: providing a multiplicity of toy elements joinable to define a player selectable structure including a plurality of controllable toy elements and at least one controller joinable to individual ones of said multiplicity of toy elements; programming a personal computer to indirectly control the operation of the plurality of controllable toy elements including providing a data flow relationship between the computer and at least one of said controllers; and using said controllers and the computer, once programmed, to control the operation of the plurality of controllable toy elements; and wherein said at least one controller is remote from said computer and is operative to receive a logic command from the computer and to convert said logic command into an output signal actuating at least one of the plurality of controllable toy elements. 23. A programmable assembly toy system comprising: a personal computer; a multiplicity of toy elements which are joined to define a player selectable structure, the multiplicity of toy elements including: a plurality of controllable toy elements; and at least one controller; wherein the at least one controller has a data flow relationship with the personal computer, thereby to provide indirect control of said controllable toy elements by the personal computer, and wherein said at least one controller is remote from said computer and is operative to receive a logic command from the computer and to convert said logic command into an output signal actuating at least one of the plurality of controllable toy elements. 24. A programmable assembly toy system operative in conjunction with a personal computer and comprising: a multiplicity of toy elements which are joined to define a player selectable structure, the multiplicity of toy elements including: a plurality of controllable toy elements; and at least one controller; wherein the at least one controller has a data flow relationship with the personal computer, thereby to provide indirect control of said controllable toy elements by the personal computer, and wherein said at least one controller is remote from said computer and is operative to receive a logic command from the computer and to convert said logic command into an output signal actuating at least one of the plurality of controllable toy elements. 25. A programmable assembly toy system operative in conjunction with a personal computer and comprising: a multiplicity of toy elements which are joinable to define a player selectable structure, the multiplicity of toy elements including: a plurality of controllable toy elements; and at least one controller; wherein the at least one controller has a data flow relationship with the personal computer, thereby to provide indirect control of said controllable toy elements by the personal computer, and wherein said at least one controller is remote from said computer and is operative to receive a logic command from the computer and to convert said logic command into an output signal actuating at least one of the plurality of controllable toy elements. 26. A system according to claim 24 wherein said multiplicity of toy elements are joined to define a plurality of player selectable structures each including at least one controllable toy element. 27. A system according to claim 26 and wherein the at least one controller comprises a corresponding plurality of controllers having a wireless data flow relationship with the personal computer, each controller being disposed within an individual one of the plurality of player selectable structures and having a wired data relationship with controllable toy elements within said individual player selectable structure. 