Method and apparatus for cleaning semiconductor devices and other workpieces using an aqueous rinse solution which is de-oxygenated and hydrogen enriched by passing the aqueous rinse solution and a treatment fluid through an osmotic membrane degasifier. In the preferred embodiment, only a single component, forming gas, is employed to provide both functions of oxygen removal and hydrogen injection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Method of treating metal structures carried on semiconductor substrates, comprising the steps of: immersing the semiconductor substrate in a tank filled with fluid media; exchanging at least a portion of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate with fluid media located outside the tank; contacting said fluid media with a semipermeable osmotic membrane; contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with a treatment fluid so as to draw oxygen from said fluid media to said treatment fluid to prevent oxidation of said metal structures; and reducing the electrochemical potential of said fluid media so as to prevent corrosion reactions in said fluid media. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the reducing step comprises at least one of said drawing of hydrogen from said treatment fluid to said fluid media to prevent hydrogen producing corrosion reactions in said fluid media, and said ultrasonic excitation of said fluid media. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of reducing the pH of the fluid media. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of reducing the pH of the fluid media comprises at least one of said adding an acid to said fluid media and said providing said treatment fluid with an acid component and diffusing said acid component across said semipermeable osmotic membrane. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said reducing step comprises: monitoring the electrical potential of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the electrical potential of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the metal is taken from a group comprising aluminum, copper, zirconium, nickel and chromium. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the metal is taken from a group comprising aluminum, copper, zirconium, nickel and chromium. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the electrical potential and pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and either contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the electrical potential of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the Pourbaix passivation operating region or the Pourbaix immunity region, or adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures, or both. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said exchanging step comprises a cascade overflow. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a gas comprising at least two components. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a single component gas. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment fluid comprises forming gas (N.sub.2 +H.sub.2). 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a liquid comprising at least two components. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a single component liquid. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said treatment fluid has a gas component and a liquid component. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein said gas component comprises forming gas (N.sub.2 H.sub.2). 19. Method of treating metal structures carried on semiconductor substrates, comprising the steps of: immersing the semiconductor substrate in a tank filled with fluid media; exchanging at least a portion of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; contacting said fluid media with a semipermeable osmotic membrane; and contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with a treatment fluid so as to draw oxygen from said fluid media to said treatment fluid to prevent oxidation of said metal structures while drawing hydrogen from said treatment fluid to said fluid media to reduce the electrochemical potential of said fluid media and to prevent hydrogen producing corrosion reactions in said fluid media. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of ultrasonically exciting said fluid media so as to reduce the electrochemical potential of said fluid media. 21. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of reducing the pH of the fluid media. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of reducing the pH of the fluid media comprises adding an acid to said fluid media. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of reducing the pH of the fluid media comprises providing said treatment fluid as an acid diffusible across said semipermeable osmotic membrane. 24. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the electrical potential of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the electrical potential of the fluid media within a preselected range. 25. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range. 26. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the electrical potential of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the electrical potential of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the metal is taken from a group comprising aluminum, copper, zirconium, nickel and chromium. 28. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the metal is taken from a group comprising aluminum, copper, zirconium, nickel and chromium. 30. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: monitoring the electrical potential and pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and either contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the electrical potential of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the Pourbaix passivation operating region or the Pourbaix immunity region or adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures, or both. 31. The method of claim 19 wherein said exchanging step comprises a cascade overflow. 32. The method of claim 19 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a gas comprising at least two components. 33. The method of claim 19 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a single component gas. 34. The method of claim 19 wherein said treatment fluid comprises forming gas (N.sub.2 +H.sub.2). 35. The method of claim 19 wherein said treatment fluid comprises a single component liquid. 36. The method of claim 19 wherein said treatment fluid has a gas component and a liquid component. 37. The method of claim 19 wherein said gas component comprises forming gas (N.sub.2 +H.sub.2). 38. The method of claim 19 further comprising the step of drying the said semiconductor substrate by emptying the tank of said fluid media and passing fluid over the surfaces of said semiconductor substrate. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein said step of drying said semiconductor substrate further comprises the step of spraying a rinse chemical, at least partly non-aqueous, on the major surfaces of said semiconductor substrate. 40. The method of claim 38 wherein said step of drying said semiconductor substrate further comprises the step of forming a cloud of isopropyl alcohol above the semiconductor substrate. 41. The method according to claim 40 further comprising the steps of: providing a process cover with heater means for heating the process cover; providing a drying cover with means for directing a stream of drying gas; providing said tank with a device opening through which said semiconductor substrate is passed into and out of said cavity; covering said device opening with said process cover during treatment of said semiconductor substrate; and withdrawing said process cover from said device opening and covering said device opening with said drying cover during drying of said semiconductor substrate. 42. Method of treating metal structures carried on semiconductor substrates, comprising the steps of: immersing the semiconductor substrate in a tank filled with fluid media; exchanging at least a portion of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate with fluid media located outside the tank; contacting said fluid media with a semipermeable osmotic membrane; contacting said semipermeable osmotic membrane with a treatment fluid so as to draw oxygen from said fluid media to said treatment fluid to prevent oxidation of said metal structures; monitoring the pH of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; and adjusting the pH of said treatment fluid in response to said monitoring step so as to maintain the pH of the fluid media within a preselected range sufficient to maintain the metal structure in either the passivation operating region or the immunity operating region as defined by the Pourbaix diagram for the metal of said metal structures. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the metal is taken from a group comprising aluminum, copper, zirconium, nickel and chromium. 44. Apparatus for treating metal structures carried on semiconductor substrates, comprising: an immersion tank for filling with a fluid media; a support within the tank for supporting said substrate for immersion in said fluid media; a fluid exchange system for exchanging at least a portion of the fluid media in contact with the metal structure carried on the semiconductor substrate; a treatment fluid for drawing oxygen from said fluid media and for supplying hydrogen to said fluid media; an osmotic membrane having a first inlet for said fluid media and a second inlet for said treatment fluid, said membrane semipermeable to oxygen in said fluid media so as to draw oxygen from said fluid media to said treatment fluid to prevent oxidation of said metal structures and said membrane semipermeable to said treatment fluid media so as to diffuse hydrogen into said fluid media to prevent hydrogen producing corrosion reactions in said fluid media. 45. The apparatus of claim 44 further comprising means in communication with said immersion tank for the ultrasonic excitation of said fluid media contained in said immersion tank. 46. The apparatus of claim 44 further comprising means for adding an acid to said fluid media. 47. The apparatus of claim 44 further comprising at least one cover connected to said treatment chamber to cover said device opening. 48. The apparatus according to claim 47 further comprising fluid blanket means for inserting a gas blanket enclosed within said cavity. 49. The apparatus according to claim 48 wherein said fluid blanket means is disposed in one of said covers. 50. The apparatus according to claim 49 wherein said fluid blanket means is at least partially comprised of carbon dioxide gas. 51. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein at least one of said covers is light blocking. 52. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein one of said covers includes a heater means to prevent condensation. 53. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein one of said covers includes means for injecting a rinse agent into said chamber. 54. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein said at least one cover further includes means for directing a drying gas into said chamber. 55. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein said treating fluid comprises a composition of first and second gases and said flow control means comprises means for controlling the flow of each of said components. 56. The apparatus of claim 44 wherein said treating fluid comprises one of said ACT935, said EKC265 and said EKC830, said apparatus further comprising means for the detecting the chemical composition of each component of the treating fluid and to determine, based upon the chemical composition detected, the time period remaining before the treating fluid exceeds a pre-defined threshold. 