A system for operation of pneumatic tooling has a plurality of pneumatically operable tools (2). A servo-controller (21) is switchable to actuate any of the plurality of tools, to move that tool to a desired position. A position transducer (4) includes an element (9, 10) which is displaced from a home position by such actuation of any one of the tools. The position transducer sends a position feedback signal to indicate to the servo-controller when the desired tool position has been reached. The servo-controller is switchable by virtue of having its output connected to a number of valves (22), i.e. one valve per tool, where preferably only one valve is energized at a time. When a valve is at rest, the pneumatic circuit is such that the tool is held in its home position. When energized, the servo-controller outputs are routed to the tool to operate the tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for operation of pneumatic tooling, comprising a plurality of pneumatically operable tools, a servo-controller which is switchable using a CPU to actuate any one of the plurality of tools to move it to a desired position, and a position transducer which includes an element which is displaced from a home position by such actuation of any one of the plurality of tools, said position transducer sending a position feedback signal to indicate to said servo-controller when the desired tool position has been reached, wherein said servo-controller produces a pneumatic output connected to plurality of valves, each valve in turn being connected to a corresponding one of the tools, said CPU switching said servo-controller so that only one valve is energized at any time, each valve when at rest routing air to hold its tool in the home position, and when energized routing the pneumatic output of the servo-controller to the tool. 2. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein the tools are pneumatic cylinders. 3. A system as recited in claim 2, where there are at least two said pneumatic cylinders mounted on a body, each said cylinder having a finger extending into a central portion of said body via a slot, each said finger being positioned to bear against a disk connected to said position transducer to move said disk relative to said transducer when the cylinder carrying that finger is moved from its home position. 4. A system as recited in claim 3, where there are four said pneumatic cylinders. 5. A system as recited in claim 1, where each said valve is a 5-port, 4-way, 2-position valve. 6. A system as recited in claim 2, where each said valve is a 5-port, 4-way, 2-position valve. 7. A system as recited in claim 3, where each said valve is a 5-port, 4-way, 2-position valve. 8. A system as recited in claim 4, where each said valve is a 5-port, 4-way, 2-position valve. 