A contact lens production line pallet system transports contact lens mold materials throughout a facility for producing ophthalmic lenses. Specifically, the contact lens production line pallet system includes a pallet for carrying one or more contact lens mold assemblies throughout a contact lens production line, the pallet having one or more first recesses formed in a surface thereof for receiving either a first mold half or a complementary second mold half, the first and second mold halves when placed together constitute an individual contact lens mold assembly. A conveyor device for transporting the pallet from station to station throughout the production line facility is provided, as is a locating device formed in the pallet surface for enabling precise positioning of the pallet at one or more manufacturing stations in the production line facility.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of using a production line pallet for carrying a plurality of contact lens mold assemblies throughout a contact lens production line facility for sequential automated processing of the assemblies at a plurality of automated stations in the production line, said method comprising: (a) providing a pallet; (b) providing a plurality of recesses in a surface of said pallet for receiving and positioning a plurality of individual contact lens mold assemblies for automated processing, each contact lens mold assembly comprising a first mold half and a complementary second mold half; (c) providing a registration means in said pallet for enabling precise positioning of said pallet at said plurality of automated stations in said production line facility, said recesses and said registration means cooperating to position said contact lens assemblies for automated processing of said assemblies at a plurality of said automated stations; and (d) providing a vacuum using an outer perimeter of said pallet surface which cooperates with a vacuum seal at one of said automated stations to create, with said pallet, a sealed volume for processing said mold assemblies under vacuum. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said registration means in said pallet includes one or more locating bushings at precise locations at said pallet surface. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said one or more locating bushings allow precise positioning of said pallet at said stations to within about +0.1 mm and -0.1 mm tolerance. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said registration means in said pallet includes at least one pair of grooves in outer peripheral edges of said pallet to provide a precise vertical orientation of said pallet surface and said mold assemblies with respect to one or more automated stations. 5. The method of claim 1 further including the step of depositing a polymerizable monomer in one of said mold halves within said sealed volume. 6. The method of claim 1 further including the step of enabling viewing of the contact lens production at said pallet surface by providing a second recess located in said pallet for accommodating an optic viewing device for viewing production operations at specific stations throughout said contact lens production line facility. 7. A method of using a production line pallet for carrying a plurality of contact lens mold assemblies throughout a contact lens production line facility for sequential automated processing of the assemblies at a plurality of automated stations in the production line, said method comprising: (a) providing a pallet; (b) providing a plurality of recesses in a surface of said pallet for receiving and positioning a plurality of individual contact lens mold assemblies for automated processing; and (c) providing a vacuum using an outer perimeter of said pallet surface which cooperates with a vacuum seal at one of said automated stations to create, with said pallet, a sealed volume for processing said mold assemblies under vacuum. 