In order to reduce boron concentration between a silicon substrate and an Si or Si.sub.1-x Ge.sub.x layer which is epitaxially grown in a CVD (chemical vapor deposition) apparatus, the silicon substrate is pretreated, before being loaded into the CVD apparatus, such as to prevent the substrate from being contaminated by boron in a clean room. Further, in accordance with one embodiment, a CVD growth chamber itself is cleaned, before the substrate is loaded into the growth chamber, using an F.sub.2 gas at a predetermined temperature of the substrate, thereby to remove boron residues in the growth chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of reducing boron concentration between a silicon substrate and one of an Si or Si.sub.1-x Ge.sub.x layer which is epitaxially grown in a CVD (chemical vapor deposition) apparatus, comprising the steps of: (a) cleaning the substrate using a two step cleaning process with chemicals each of which contains boron at a concentration of less than 50 ppt, said cleaning being implemented before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; and (b) processing the substrate in a boron-free isolated environment at step (a) and before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus. 2. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 1, wherein said processing of the substrate step (a) further includes washing the substrate with water, drying the substrate, transferring the substrate to the CVD apparatus, and loading the substrate into the CVD apparatus. 3. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 2, wherein said transferring of the substrate to the CVD apparatus is implemented using a substrate carry box filled with one of nitrogen or an inert gas. 4. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 1, wherein said boron-free isolated environment is provided in a clean room which removes boron resulting from a glass filter. 5. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 4, wherein said transferring of the substrate to the CVD apparatus is implemented using a substrate carry box filled with one of nitrogen or an inert gas. 6. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solution for cleaning the substrate at step (a) comprises NH.sub.4 OH--H.sub.2 O.sub.2 --H.sub.2 O. 7. A method of reducing boron concentration between a silicon substrate and one of an Si or Si.sub.1-x Ge.sub.x layer which is epitaxially grown in a CVD (chemical vapor deposition) apparatus, comprising the steps of: (a) ion implanting silicon ions into the substrate before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; (b) cleaning the substrate using a cleaning solution which includes H.sub.2 O.sub.2 before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; (c) implementing a high temperature treatment on the substrate in the CVD apparatus thereby diffusing boron, adhered to the substrate, into the substrate. 8. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 7, wherein said high-temperature treatment in step (c) removes oxide, produced on the substrate in an ambient clean room atmosphere, during the cleaning of the substrate. 9. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 7, further comprising the steps of: (d) thermally growing an oxide on the substrate before step (a); and (e) completely removing the thermally grown oxide between steps (a) and (b), using a wet chemical etch technique. 10. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 7, wherein the solution used at step (b) comprises NH.sub.4 OH--H.sub.2 O.sub.2 --H.sub.2 O. 11. The method of reducing boron concentration as claimed in claim 7, wherein the substrate is transferred to the CVD apparatus using a substrate carry box filled with one nitrogen or an inert gas. 12. A method of reducing boron concentration between a silicon substrate and an Si or Si.sub.1-x Ge.sub.x layer which is epitaxially grown in a CVD (chemical vapor deposition) apparatus, comprising the steps of: (a) cleaning the substrate using a solution including H.sub.2 O.sub.2 before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; (b) removing native oxide produced on the substrate at step (a) using a dilute HF before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; (c) immersing the substrate in boiling concentrated HNO.sub.3 to form native oxide on the substrate, the immersing of the substrate being implemented before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; and (d) implementing a high-temperature treatment on the substrate in the CVD apparatus to diffuse boron, adhered to the substrate, into the substrate. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12, further comprising the step of: (e) reducing the thickness of the native oxide, produced in step (c), using a dilute HF to a predetermined value before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus, the dilute HF used in step (e) having concentration lower than the dilute HF used at step (b). 14. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the substrate is transferred to the CVD apparatus using a substrate carry box filled with nitrogen. 15. A method as claimed in claim 12, the solution used at step (a) is composed of NH.sub.4 OH--H.sub.2 O.sub.2 --H.sub.2 O--. 16. A method of reducing boron concentration between a silicon substrate and an Si or Si.sub.1-x Ge.sub.x layer which is epitaxially grown in a CVD (chemical vapor deposition) apparatus, comprising the steps of: (a) cleaning the substrate using a solution including H.sub.2 O.sub.2 before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; (b) removing native oxide produced on the substrate at step (a) using a dilute HF before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; (c) growing thermally oxide on the substrate using an oxygen gas in a low-pressure atmosphere before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; and (d) implementing a high-temperature treatment on the substrate in he CVD apparatus to remove the oxide which has thermally been grown on the substrate at step (c). 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the thermal oxide growth at step (c) is implemented at less than 20 torr in a CVD growth chamber with the temperature of the substrate being equal to or less than 900.degree. C., and wherein the thermal oxide grown at step (c) has a thickness of being equal to or less than 30 angstrom. 18. A method as recited in claim 16, wherein the substrate is transferred to the CVD apparatus using a substrate carry box filled with nitrogen. 19. A method as recited in claim 16, the solution used at step (a) is composed of NH.sub.4 OH--H.sub.2 O.sub.2 --H.sub.2 O--. 20. A method of reducing boron concentration between a silicon substrate and an Si or Si.sub.1-x Ge.sub.x layer which is epitaxially grown in a CVD (chemical vapor deposition) apparatus, comprising the steps of: (a) cleaning a CVD growth chamber, before the substrate is loaded into the growth chamber, using an F.sub.2 gas at a predetermined temperature of the substrate, thereby to remove boron residues in the growth chamber; (b) implementing a high-temperature treatment on the usbstrate loaded into the growth chamber to remove native oxide on the substrate; (c) implementing sequentially non-doped and boron-doped epitaxial growths on the substrate in the growth chamber; (d) cleaning the substrate using a solution which contains boron whose concentration is less than 50 ppt, said cleaning being implemented before the silicon substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus; and (e) processing the substrate in a boron-free isolated environment at step (d) and before the substrate is loaded into the CVD apparatus, wherein the solution used at step (d) comprises NH.sub.4 OH--H.sub.2 O.sub.2 --H.sub.2 O. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein said processing of the substrate at step (e) further includes washing the substrate with water, drying the substrate, transferring the substrate to the CVD apparatus, and loading the substrate into the CVD apparatus. 22. A method as claim in claim 21, wherein said transferring of the substrate to the CVD apparatus is implemented using a substrate carry box filled with nitrogen. 23. A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein said boron-free isolated environment is provided in a clean room wherein boron resulting from a glass fiber filter is contained. 24. A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein said transferring of the substrate to the CVD apparatus is implemented using a substrate carry box filled with nitrogen. 