A system for automatically tracking the location of a vehicle includes a visual image detector mounted on the vehicle for producing as the vehicle moves along a route digitized strips of image data representing successive panoramic views of scenery about the vehicle at respective locations along the route. A sparse tracking subsystem processes and stores only selected ones of the image data strips representing substantially spaced apart successive locations along the route, for use as a sparse database. A dense tracking subsystem processes and stores as a dense database every successive one of the image data strips representing location along the route, whereby the dense tracking subsystem provides more accurate location of the vehicle when it retraces some portion of the route than the sparse tracking subsystem. After the sparse and dense databases are established, the location of the vehicle in real time as it retraces the route is performed by the dense tracking subsystem matching current image data strips from the visual image detector with the dense database strips to determine the location of the vehicle, as long as the vehicle stays on the pre-established route. If the vehicles strays from the route, the system senses the deviation and switches to the sparse tracking system to search a broader area in less time than the dense tracking system to attempt to relocate the vehicle along the route, after which the system switches back to the dense tracking subsystem.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automatically tracking the location of a vehicle, comprising: visual image detecting means mounted on said vehicle for obtaining analog image signals representative of at least a portion of a panoramic view of the surroundings about said vehicle; digital signal processing means for converting said analog image signals into a plurality of successive digitized first image data strips as the associated vehicle travels along a route, each of said plurality of first image data strips including information relating to features of scenery about said vehicle at successive locations or landmarks along said route, respectively, whereby when said vehicle retraces travel along at least a portion of said route, said digital signal processing means converts resulting said analog image signals into successive digitized second image data strips corresponding to a unique one of said first image data strips, respectively; sparse tracking means for utilizing selected ones of said plurality of first image data strips for establishing a sparse database thereof in memory, the selected image data strips representing substantially spaced apart successive locations along said route, said sparse tracking means further including landmark recognition means for comparing each of said second image data strips as they occur in real time with the ones of said first image data strips of the sparse database, respectively, for locating said vehicle in real time at the landmark or location associated with the one of said first image data strips most closely corresponding to the current said second image data strip; dense tracking means for utilizing all of said plurality of first image data strips for establishing a dense database thereof in memory, representing adjacent successive locations along said route, said dense tracking means further including matching means for determining the closest match between each of said second image data strips as they occur in real time and said plurality of first image data strips, respectively, for locating said vehicle in real time at the location associated with the closest matching one of said first image data strips to the current second image data strip, said dense tracking means providing more accurate but less robust tracking of said vehicle than said sparse tracking means; and switching means responsive in one mode to straying of said vehicle from said route for transferring the tracking of said vehicle from said dense tracking means to said sparse tracking means, and thereafter responsive in another mode to said sparse tracking means recovering the location of said vehicle for at least a predetermined time, for transferring vehicle tracking back to said dense tracking means, and retaining said dense tracking means active as long as said vehicle continues travel on said route in a manner permitting said dense tracking means to locate said vehicle. 2. The system of claim 1, further including odometer means for providing odometer signals indicative of the distances travelled by said vehicle from a starting point on said route to locations or landmarks represented by said plurality of first image data strips, respectively. 3. The system of claim 2, further including means for tagging said first and second image data strips with associated odometer data from said odometer signals. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein said switching means further includes visual gyro means for detecting said vehicle either turning where it should not turn, or not turning where it should turn, for determining said vehicle has strayed from the intended route, and thereafter switching the tracking from said dense tracking means to said sparse tracking means. 5. The system of claim 4, further including means for navigating said vehicle through use of said odometer signals and dead reckoning, whenever during tracking with said sparse tracking means no landmarks are identified. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein said landmark recognition means further includes location probability modeling means for determining a landmark for locating said vehicle from amongst a plurality of possible landmarks, by computing for a current said second image data strip similarity scores with each of said first image data strips of the sparse database, respectively, with each landmark recognition result being represented by three numbers described by means for computing the gaussian amplitude representing the probability of the landmark recognition being correct, the gaussian mean representing the expected landmark location as expressed by an associated odometer signal, and the standard deviation of the gaussian distribution. 7. The system of claim 6, further including: means for updating the vehicle location probabilities by shifting landmark locations by using odometer readings. 8. The method of claim 7, further including the step of including said labeled strips in a database for vehicle navigation. 9. The system of claim 2, further including visual incremental turn detector means for providing both said sparse tracking means, and said dense tracking means, signals indicative of the degree and direction of turns made by said vehicle as it retraces travel along said route. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said visual incremental turn detector means includes: means for extracting two successive second image data strips; means for rotating the second occurring of said second image data strips until it matches the first occurring of said second image data strips, whereby the amount of rotation of the former to obtain a match with the latter is indicative of the degree the vehicle turned in the time interval between the two successive second image data strips. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said visual incremental turn detector means further includes means responsive to said odometer signals for indicating the distance said vehicle travelled in making the turn increment or rotation measured between the successive two second image data strips. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said visual incremental turn detector means further includes means responsive to the direction of rotation of the second occurring one of said second image data strips of successive pairs thereof, for indicating whether said vehicle is making or has made a left-turn, right-turn or u-turn. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein said visual incremental turn detector means further includes means receptive of both a signal indicative of the initial heading of said vehicle, and of signals from said turn direction means, for providing the heading of said vehicle at any given time. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said direction responsive means includes means responsive to said vehicle heading in a straight path for indicating the end of a turn. 15. The system of claim 14, further including: said extraction means including means for extracting each sequentially occurring pair of successive second image strips; and said rotating means including means for accumulating and summing the measured rotations and distances of each sequentially occurring pair of successive second image strips, for providing the total rotation made and distance travelled by the vehicle in turning. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said rotating means further includes means indicating a u-turn, left-turn, right-turn or straight travel, if rounding of the accumulated measured rotations is -180.degree., -90.degree., +90.degree., or 0.degree., respectively. 17. The system of claim 16, further including: a map display responsive to said odometer signals, and to said visual gyro means, for displaying the position of said vehicle thereon as it retraces travel along a premapped route, whereby said system is initialized by having said vehicle begin at a known starting position on said route. 18. The system of claim 16, further including dead reckoning means for extracting the current position of said vehicle at all times. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said dead reckoning means includes: means for initializing said system with a known starting position and a known heading; means for adding each measured turn increment from said visual incremental turn detector means to the previous heading to obtain a new heading for determining the direction of a vector corresponding to vehicle motion; and means for adding each successive distance increment, measured by said odometer means between every two successive second image data strips, to said vector for the previous position of the vehicle, for obtaining the vehicle's current position. 20. The system of claim 9, wherein said dense tracking means further includes: a means for determining the vehicle's orientation and lineal position by minimizing correlation scores between a current second image data strip and said first image data strips under a variety of hypothesized rotations and lineal positions. 21. The system of claim 20, further including: means for updating the vehicle location by combining a current probability distribution for the vehicle location with an immediately prior probability distribution obtained from a previously recognized landmark. 22. The system of claim 2, wherein said matching means of said dense tracking means further includes: probability determination means for calculating the probability a current second image data strip matches each of said plurality of first image data strips in said dense database, for determining whether a valid match exists between said current second image data strip and one of said plurality of first image data strips to locate said vehicle at that time. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said probability determination means further includes: means for estimating the probability a current odometer reading is correct, and combining the odometer probability with the probabilities obtained for each of said plurality of first image data strips to enhance the accuracy of locating said vehicle; and visual incremental turn detector means for providing said dense tracking means with signals indicative of the degree and direction of turns made by said vehicle as it retraces travel along said route. 24. The system of claim 22, further including visual incremental turn detector means for providing said dense tracking means with signals indicative of the degree and direction of turns made by said vehicle as it retraces travel along said route. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein said sparse tracking means further includes: a plurality of neural networks each assigned to a selected individual landmark to learn to recognize the one of said first image data strips associated with the selected one of said landmarks, respectively, whereby said sparse database consists of said plurality of neural networks; and said landmark recognition means being operable to retrieve said neural networks from the sparse database to determine which one of said plurality of neural networks has the strongest recognition of a current second image data strip, whereby the associated first image data strip thereto provides an indication of the corresponding location of the vehicle. 26. The system of claim 1, further including: said visual image detecting means including means for producing said analog image signals in colors representative of red, green, and blue values (RGB) of scenery about said vehicle; and said digital signal processing means including means for producing each one of said first and second image data strips as both RGB color encoded strips and intensity encoded strips. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein said digital signal processing means further includes: means for extracting from each one of said first and second images narrow bands of successive bins of pixels; and means for computing the average intensity of each bin, for representing each one of said first and second image data strips as comprising the successive average intensities of the associated bins of pixels. 28. The system of claim 1, further including: said visual image detecting means including means for producing said analog image signals in colors representative of red, green, and blue values (RGB) of scenery about said vehicle; said digital signal processing means further including: means dividing each one of said first and second image data strips into successive bins of pixels; means for calculating the average color of each bin, for representing each one of said first and second image data strips as comprising the successive average color values of its associated bins of pixels. 29. The system of claim 1, further including: said visual image detecting means including means for producing said analog image signals in colors representative of red, green, and blue values (RGB) of scenery about said vehicle; said digital signal processing means further including: means dividing each one of said first and second image data strips into successive bins of pixels; and means for calculating the average of the brightest red, green, and blue values of the pixels in each bin, for identifying or representing each one of said first and second image data strips as comprising the successive average color brightness values of its associated bins of pixels. 30. The system of claim 1, further including: said visual image detecting means including means for producing said analog image signals in colors representative of red, green, and blue values (RGB) of scenery about said vehicle; said digital signal processing means further including: means dividing each one of said first and second image data strips into successive bins of pixels; and means for determining which pixel in each bin is the "most colorful", and assigning that value as representative of the bin, for identifying or representing each one of said first and second image data strips as comprising the successive "most colorful" pixels of its associated successive bins of pixels, whereby the "most colorful" pixel of each bin is determined as being that pixel of the bin having a color distance C the furthest from medium gray by Euclidean distance measure, with medium gray defined to have the RGB value of (127, 127, 127), and C being expressed as: ##EQU21## where R, G, and B are the actual values for red, green, and blue. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein said sparse tracking means further includes: image preprocessing means for extracting edge information as an edge strip from each one of, and for representing each of, said first and second image data strips, said landmark recognition means thereby operating for comparing the edge strip of each of said second image data strips with the edge strip of each of said first image data strips stored in said sparse database. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein said landmark recognition means includes an artificial neural network simulator, with each sparse landmark being assigned a unique neural network trained to recognize the landmarks. 33. The system of claim 32, further including: means for tuning network weights for each said neural network in a supervised learning manner. 34. The system of claim 33, further including: means for combining nearby gaussians for reducing the number of gaussians in said system; and means for eliminating gaussians having amplitudes below a predetermined value for reducing the number of gaussians in said system. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein said sparse tracking means includes automatic landmark selection means for selecting landmarks for the sparse database based upon considering locations each having the relatively smallest Euclidean distances with edge strips of locations within a predetermined distance of the considered location or landmark, and the relatively largest Euclidean distances with edge strips of locations outside of another predetermined distance from the considered location. 36. The system of claim 1, further including: means for tracking arbitrary (but small) movements in said vehicles lineal position and orientation by finding a minimum correlation score across all hypothesized positions. 37. The system of claim 1, wherein said switching means further includes: means for determining a minimum correlation score across said dense and sparse databases for switching between said dense tracking means and said sparse tracking means. 38. The system of claim 1, further including: means for modeling said vehicle location via a mixture of gaussian distributions plus a background probability distribution. 