A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addressees and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: A. a first memory device having address leads and data leads, the first memory device producing data signals on the data leads in a first time after occurrence of address signals received on the address leads; B. a second memory device having address leads and data leads, the second memory device producing data signals on the data leads in a second time after occurrence of address signals received on the address leads; C. a microprocessor having address leads sending address signals and having data leads at least receiving data signals, the microprocessor being capable of receiving data signals on the data leads in a third time after the occurrence of address signals on the address leads, the third time being less than at least the first time, and the microprocessor including a first register connected to the data leads and containing a first number received from the data leads indicating a first number of wait states to be inserted between the occurrence of the address signals on the microprocessor address leads and the third time to result in a fourth time that is greater than the first time; and D. address leads connecting the address leads of the first and second memory devices to the address leads of the microprocessor and data leads connecting the data leads of the first and second memory devices to the data leads of the microprocessor. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the first and second times are different from one another and are longer than the third time and the microprocessor including a second register connected to the data leads and containing a second number received from the data leads indicating a second number of wait states to be inserted between the occurrence of the address signals on the microprocessor address leads and the third time to result in a fifth time that is greater than the second time. 