A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body that allows it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through, around, and between organs within the body.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of advancing an instrument along a path, comprising: selectively steering a distal portion of the instrument to assume a selected curve along the path; and creating a three dimensional model of the selected curve in the memory of an electronic motion controller. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: programming the electronic motion controller based on the created three dimensional model so that the instrument will automatically assume the proper shape to follow the selected curve as the instrument is advanced along the path. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: programming the electronic motion controller based on the created three dimensional model. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: advancing the instrument distally while automatically controlling a proximal portion of the instrument using the electronic motion controller to propagate the selected curve distally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 5. The method according to claim 3, further comprising: advancing the instrument proximally while automatically controlling a proximal portion of the instrument using the electronic motion controller to propagate the selected curve proximally along the proximal portion of the instrument. 6. The method according to claim 3, further comprising: modifying the programming of the electronic motion controller by withdrawing the instrument proximally and commanding the electronic motion controller to erase the selected curve. 7. The method according to claim 3 wherein the electronic motion controller receives an input from an axial motion transducer indicative of the axial position of the instrument. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the electronic motion controller receives a signal from an axial motion transducer indicative of the axial position of the instrument. 9. A method of advancing an instrument along a path, comprising: attempting more than one time to selectively steer the distal portion of the instrument along the path; selecting a curve from the attempts to selectively steer the distal portion of the instrument along the path; and logging the curve into the memory of an electronic motion controller adapted to control the instrument. 10. The method according to claim 9 further comprising: automatically controlling the proximal portion of the instrument to propagate the curve along the instrument. 11. An apparatus, comprising: an elongated instrument body having a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controllable proximal portion, the selectively steerable distal portion being configured to selectively assume a selected curve along a desired path, and the automatically controllable proximal portion being configured to propagate the selected curve along the elongated instrument body as the elongated instrument body is advanced along the selected curve; an electronic motion controller adapted to control the instrument; an electronic memory adapted to create and store a three dimensional model of the selected curve; and a steering control connected electronic motion controller for selectively steering the instrument. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the electronic motion controller is integrated into a proximal handle. 13. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the steering control is integrated into a proximal handle. 14. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the electronic motion controller can be programmed based on a three dimensional model stored in the electronic memory. 15. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the steering control comprises a joystick. 16. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the electronic memory is adapted to indicate and store an annotation of the three dimensional model of the selected curve. 17. The apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising a transducer for measuring motion of the elongated instrument body along the desired path. 18. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the selectively steerable distal portion is further adapted to be automatically controlled by the electronic motion controller. 19. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the elongated instrument is configured as an endoscopic instrument for insertion into a patient's body. 20. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the elongated instrument is configured as a surgical instrument. 