Two multiple link robot arms (10) are mounted to a torso link (11), and each of them includes an offset hand (30) and two motors (50, 52) capable of independent operation that provides movement of the offset hand along along combinations of angular, radial, linear, and curvilinear paths. The first motor rotates a forearm (22) about an elbow axis (24), and the second motor rotates an upper arm (14) about a shoulder axis (16). A motor controller (54) controls the first and second motors in two operational states that respectively enable linear extension or retraction of the robot arm radial to the shoulder axis and enable angular displacement of the hand about the shoulder axis. A distal end (34) of each offset hand is offset such that during first operational state motion, the distal end follows paths parallel to lines radial to the shoulder axis. The offset distance (240) is set so that when properly rotated in the second operational state, both offset hands can follow a common hand extension line (44) that is a perpendicular bisector between the shoulder axes of the robot arms. This allows specimens (206) retrieved by either offset hand to be placed on a processing station (208) located along the hand extension line.
Claims We claim: 1. A robot arm system for moving specimens having effective centers among first and second specimen storage cassettes and a specimen processing station, the robot arm system including first and second robot arm mechanisms rotatable about respective first and second shoulder axes and each operable to move respective first and second wrist axes along linear paths that extend radially from the respective first and second shoulder axes, the first and second robot arm mechanisms further operable to angularly shift the respective first and second wrist axes about the respective first and second shoulder axes such that the linear paths are shiftable about the first and second shoulder axes, an improvement comprising: a first offset hand extending from the first wrist axis for grasping the effective center of one of the specimens such that when the first robot arm mechanism moves the first wrist axis along a first linear path, the effective center of the specimen moves along a first offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart a first offset distance from the first linear path, and when the first robot arm mechanism shifts the first wrist axis into coincidence with a second linear path, the first offset hand is movable along a second offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart the first offset distance from the second linear path; a second offset hand extending from the second wrist axis for grasping the effective center of one of the specimens such that when the second robot arm mechanism moves the second wrist axis along a third linear path, the effective center of the specimen moves along a third offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart a second offset distance from the third linear path, and when the second robot arm mechanism shifts the second wrist axis into coincidence with a fourth linear path, the second offset hand is movable along a fourth offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart the second offset distance from the fourth linear path; and the first and second shoulder axes being spaced apart such that the second offset linear path can substantially share a common linear path with the fourth offset linear path. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the first offset distance is substantially equal to the second offset distance. 3. The system of claim 1 in which the specimen processing station is positioned along the common linear path. 4. The system of claim 1 in which the first and second shoulder axes are on a line and the common linear path is a perpendicular bisector of the line. 5. The system of claim 4 in which the first and second specimen storage cassettes are aligned in a side-by-side relationship and parallel to the line. 6. The system of claim 1 in which at least one of the specimen storage cassettes is placed such that the specimens may be retrieved or delivered thereto by movement of a respective one of the first and second offset hands along a respective one of the first and third offset linear paths. 7. The system of claim 1 in which at least one of the first and second offset hands comprises an elongated dog leg shaped member. 8. The system of claim 7 in which the elongated dog leg shaped member forms about a 90 degree bend. 9. The system of claim 7 in which the first and second offset hands form dog leg shapes that are bent in opposite rotational directions. 10. The system of claim 1 in which the first and second offset hands are spaced apart from each other in a direction parallel to the first and second shoulder axes to prevent a mechanical interference when at least one of the first and second offset hands undergoes movement in a region of the common linear path. 11. The system of claim 1 further including a torso link operable for rotation about a central axis and on which the first and second robot arm mechanisms are mounted for rotation about the respective first and second shoulder axes, which axes are spaced apart from each other and offset from the central axis. 12. The system of claim 11 in which the torso link is an elongated element that has opposite ends and the first and second robot arm mechanisms are positioned near the opposite ends of the torso link. 13. The system of claim 11 in which a rotation of the torso link about the central axis causes a repositioning of the first and second shoulder axes, which repositioning allows moving the specimens along respective fifth and sixth offset linear paths. 14. The system of claim 13 in which the first and second specimen storage cassettes are aligned in a side-by-side relationship on a line perpendicular to the common linear path and spaced apart from the central axis, and in which at least one of the first and second specimen storage cassettes is placed such that the specimens may be retrieved or delivered thereto by movement of at least one of the first and second offset hands along a respective one of the fifth and sixth offset linear paths. 15. In a robot arm system including first and second robot arm mechanisms rotatable about respective first and second shoulder axes and each operable to move respective first and second wrist axes along linear paths that extend radially from the respective first and second shoulder axes, the first and second robot arm mechanisms further operable to angularly shift the respective first and second wrist axes about the respective first and second shoulder axes such that the linear paths are shiftable about the first and second shoulder axes, a method for moving specimens having effective centers among first and second specimen storage cassettes and a specimen processing station comprising: providing a first offset hand extending from the first wrist axis for grasping the effective center of one of the specimens such that when the first robot arm mechanism moves the first wrist axis along a first linear path, the effective center of the specimen moves along a first offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart a first offset distance from the first linear path, and when the first robot arm mechanism shifts the first wrist axis into coincidence with a second linear path, the first offset hand is movable along a second offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart the first offset distance from the second linear path; providing a second offset hand extending from the second wrist axis for grasping the effective center of one of the specimens such that when the second robot arm mechanism moves the second wrist axis along a third linear path, the effective center of the specimen moves along a third offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart a second offset distance from the third linear path, and when the second robot arm mechanism shifts the second wrist axis into coincidence with a fourth linear path, the second offset hand is movable along a fourth offset linear path that is parallel to and spaced apart the second offset distance from the fourth linear path; and spacing apart the first and second shoulder axes such that the second offset linear path can substantially share a common linear path with the fourth offset linear path. 16. The method of claim 15 in which the first offset distance is substantially equal to the second offset distance. 17. The method of claim 15 further including positioning the specimen processing station along the common linear path. 18. The method of claim 15 in which the first and second shoulder axes are on a line and the common linear path is a perpendicular bisector of the line. 19. The method of claim 18 further including aligning the first and second specimen storage cassettes in a side-by-side relationship and parallel to the line. 20. The method of claim 15 further including placing at least one of the specimen storage cassettes such that the specimens may be retrieved or delivered thereto by movement of a respective one of the first and second offset hands along a respective one of the first and third offset linear paths. 21. The method of claim 15 shaping at least one of the first and second offset hands as an elongated dog leg shaped member. 22. The method of claim 21 in which the elongated dog leg shaped member forms about a 90 degree bend. 23. The method of claim 21 further including providing the first and second offset hands with elongated dog leg shaped members and forming the dog leg shaped members such that they are bent in opposite rotational directions. 24. The method of claim 15 further including spacing the first and second offset hands apart from each other in a direction parallel to the first and second shoulder axes to prevent a mechanical interference when at least one of the first and second offset hands undergoes movement in a region of the common linear path. 25. The method of claim 15 further including providing a torso link operable for rotation about a central axis, and mounting the first and second robot arm mechanisms in the torso link such that the first and second shoulder axes are spaced apart from each other and offset from the central axis. 26. The method of claim 25 further including forming the torso link as an elongated element that has opposite ends, and positioning the first and second robot arm mechanisms near the opposite ends of the torso link. 27. The method of claim 25 further including rotating the torso link about the central axis to reposition the first and second robot arm mechanisms, and operating the first and second robot arm mechanisms to move the specimens along respective fifth and sixth offset linear paths that are more closely spaced apart than the first and third offset linear paths. 28. The method of claim 27 further including aligning the first and second specimen storage cassettes in a side-by-side relationship on a line perpendicular to the common linear path and spaced apart from the central axis, and spacing the first and second specimen storage cassettes apart such that the specimens may be retrieved or delivered thereto by movement of the first and second offset hands along respective ones of the fifth and sixth offset linear paths. 29. The method of claim 25 further including: aligning the first and second specimen storage cassettes in a side-by-side relationship on a line perpendicular to the common linear path and spaced apart from the central axis; rotating the torso link about the central axis to align at least one of the first and second offset hands with the effective center of a specimen stored in a respective one of the first and second specimen storage cassettes; and moving at least one of the first and second offset hands along an offset linear path to retrieve the specimen stored in the respective one of the first and second specimen storage cassettes. 