An apparatus, method, and article of manufacture to separate a slider from a slider row in which it was manufactured. The apparatus comprises an articulating robot including a stage which may be moved in X-Y coordinate directions and an articulating arm that may be used to place rows of sliders on the stage. The articulating arm incorporates a rotating effectuator unit mounted at the end of the arm, the effectuator being used to pick up individual slider rows, the tray in which they sit when first introduced to the robot, or any other item that needs to be positioned during the alignment of the rows. The apparatus includes sensors and a processing unit that may be used to detect and determine dimensional characteristics of an ABS surface of a slider integral to the row. The apparatus may also include a parting device for separating the slider from the row. In performing the method, a slider row is positioned on the stage in a manner that allows the ABS surface of a slider to be sensed by the sensors. Using the sensed data, the processing unit determines the location of the centroid of the ABS surface for the slider. The processing unit uses the centroid location of the ABS surface in establishing a parting position for parting the slider from the row.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for positioning a slider row relative to a parting device so that one or more sliders can be parted from the row, comprising: (a) positioning a slider row relative to a sensor, said slider row having a plurality of sliders integral thereto, each slider including an air bearing surface (ABS) having a width Z; (b) the sensor sensing a centroid location for an ABS of a first slider in the slider row; (c) implementing a relationship defining a first slider parting location relative to said first slider ABS centroid location; (d) relatively positioning said slider row and the parting device based upon said relationship so that the parting device is in a position to part a slider from a slider row at said parting location; (e) using said parting device to part said first slider from said slider row; and (f) performs steps (a)-(e) for all sliders integral to said slider row. 2. The method recited in claim 1, further including the steps of: sensing further to determine whether a finishing step is required to compensate for any parting error inflicted on any parted slider; and if a finishing step is required, performing a finishing step on each parted slider. 3. The method recited in claim 2, wherein locating said ABS centroid location includes the steps of: sensing dimensional characteristics of said ABS of said first slider; copying said dimensional characteristics to a processing unit; and determining said location of said ABS centroid using said processing unit and said copied dimensional characteristics. 4. The method recited in claim 3, wherein said ABS centroid location is calculated as C.sub.ABS =Z/2. 5. The method recited in claim 3, wherein said ABS centroid location is calculated based upon an ABS fly height model. 6. The method recited in claim 3, wherein said parting device is calibrated prior to paring any slider from said slider row. 7. The method recited in claim 6, wherein said relationship between said parting device and said ABS centroid location may be determined as M=C+X-W, where C=said ABS centroid location, X=1/2 Z, and W is determined by establishing a location of a Du side of said parting device during calibration, said Du side of said parting device being juxtaposed to a parting side of a slider as said slider is parted from a slider row. 8. The method recited in claim 1, further comprising: (g) positioning an N.sub.i slider row to allow its location and an ABS of a second slider integral thereto to be sensed by said sensor, said N.sub.i slider row including a longitudinal center line, said second slider including an ABS centroid location and a latitudinal center line passing therethrough, wherein N.sub.i resents each additional slider row to be positioned; (h) using said sensor to locate said second slider's ABS centroid location, wherein locating said ABS centroid location includes the steps of: sensing dimensional characteristics of said ABS of said second slider including an ABS surface width Z; copying said dimensional characteristics to a processing unit; and using said processing unit to determine said location of said second slider ABS centroid using said copied dimensional characteristics; (i) positioning said N.sub.i slider row near an adjacent slider row, said adjacent slider row comprising: a longitudinal adjacent slider row center line; and a plurality of sliders integral to said adjacent slider row, each slider including: an ABS surface; an ABS centroid location; and a latitudinal center line passing through said ABS centroid location substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal adjacent slider row center line; wherein positioning said N.sub.i slider row near an adjacent slider row includes causing said latitudinal center line of said second slider to be substantially coaxial with said latitudinal center line of said slider integral to said adjacent slider row; and (d) repeating steps (g) through (i) for all remaining N.sub.i slider rows. 9. The method recited in claim 8, wherein aligning the latitudinal centerlines to be coaxial comprises: (a) establishing a longitudinal datum reference; (b) measuring points A and B in reference to said longitudinal datum reference, each of said points A and B corresponding to a location of an edge of said ABS of a slider integral to said N.sub.i slider row; (c) determining the location of said ABS centroid of said slider of said N.sub.i slider row; (d) measuring points C and D in reference to said longitudinal datum reference, each of said points C and D corresponding to a location of an edge of said ABS of a slider integral to said adjacent row; (e) determining the location of said ABS centroid of said slider of said adjacent slider row; (f) calculating an offset distance E of said latitudinal center lines where E=.vertline.(A+B-C-D)/2.vertline.; and (g) repositioning at least one of said slider rows said offset distance E to align said latitudinal centerlines. 10. The method recited in claim 8, wherein said ABS centroid locations are calculated based upon an ABS fly height model. 11. The method recited in claim 8, wherein said ABS centroid locations are calculated as C.sub.ABS =Z/2. 12. A method for positioning multiple slider rows relative to a parting device so that one or more sliders can be parted from the rows, comprising: (a) positioning a first slider row, said first slider row having a plurality of sliders including a first slider integral thereto, each slider of the first slider row including an air bearing surface (ABS), wherein the ABS of the first slider can be sensed by a sensor; (b) positioning a second slider row relative to the first slider row, said second slider row hang a plurality of sliders including a second slider integral thereto, each slider of the second slider row including an ABS, wherein the ABS of the second slider can be sensed by said sensor; (c) employing said sensor to locate a centroid location of the ABS of said first slider using said sensor; (d) employing said sensor to locate a centroid location for the ABS of said second slider using said sensor; (e) aligning said first slider ABS centroid with said second slider ABS centroid along a common axis; (f) implementing a relationship defining a slider part location relative to said first slider ABS centroid location; (g) relatively positioning said slider rows and the parting device based upon said relationship so that the parting device is in a position to part a slider from the first and second slider rows at said parting location; (h) using the parting device to part said first slider from said first slider row and said second slider from said second slider row; and, (i) repeating steps (a)-(i) for all remaining sliders integral to the first and second slider rows. 13. A method for positioning a slider row relative to a parting device for parting a slider from the slider row, comprising: (a) positioning a first slider row, said first slider row having a plurality of sliders integral thereto, each slider including an air bearing surface (ABS) having a width Z, wherein the ABS of at least one of said sliders may be sensed by a sensor; (b) employing said sensor to locate a centroid location for said ABS of a first slider using said sensor, comprising: (i) sensing dimensional characteristics of said ABS of said first slider; (ii) copying said dimensional characteristics to a processing unit; and (iii) determining said location of said ABS centroid using said processing unit and said copied dimensional characteristics; (c) determining a relationship between a parting location and said first slider ABS centroid location; (d) positioning an N.sub.i slider row to allow a position of said N.sub.i slider row and an ABS of a second slider integral thereto to be sensed by said sensor, said N.sub.i slider row including a longitudinal center line, said second slider including a slider latitudinal center line passing through an ABS centroid location of said second slider, wherein 2.ltoreq.i.ltoreq.n and n is the total number of slider rows to be positioned; (e) locating said ABS centroid location for said second slider using said sensor, wherein locating said ABS centroid location includes the steps of: (i) sensing dimensional characteristics of said ABS of said second slider including an ABS surface width Z; (ii) copying said dimensional characteristics to a processing unit; and (iii) using said processing unit to determine said location of said ABS centroid using said copied dimensional characteristics; (f) positioning said N.sub.i slider row near said first slider row, said first slider row comprising: (i) a longitudinal first slider row center line; and (ii) a plurality of sliders integral to said first slider row, each slider including: (A) an ABS surface; (B) an ARS centroid location; and (C) a latitudinal center line passing through said ABS centroid location substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal first slider row center line; wherein positioning said N.sub.i slider row near said first slider row includes causing said latitudinal center line of said second slider to be substantially coaxial with said latitudinal center line of said first slider integral to said first slider row; and (g) repeating steps (d) through (g) for all remaining N.sub.i slider rows. 14. The method recited in claim 13, wherein causing the latitudinal centerlines to be substantially coaxial comprises: establishing a longitudinal datum reference; measuring points A and B in reference to said longitudinal datum reference, said points A and B corresponding to a location of an edge of said ABS of a slider integral to said N.sub.i slider row to determine the location of said ABS centroid of said second slider of said N.sub.i slider row; measuring points C and D in reference to said longitudinal datum reference, said points C and D corresponding to a location of an edge of said ABS of a slider integral to said adjacent row to determine the location of said ABS centroid of said first slider of said first slider row; calculating an offset distance E of said latitudinal center lines where E=.vertline.(A+B-C-D)/2.vertline.; and repositioning at least one of said slider rows said offset distance E to align said latitudinal centerlines. 15. The method recited in claim 14, further including the steps of: (h) relatively positioning slider rows with respect to a parting device based upon said relationship between said parting location and said first slider ABS centroid location, said positioning used to position said parting location so that the parting device will part at least one slider from said slider rows in which the slider was manufactured at said parting location; (i) parting said at least one slider from said slider rows, using said parting device; (j) determining whether a finishing step is required to compensate for any parting error; (k) performing a finishing step on said at least one slider; and repeating steps (a)-(k) for all sliders integral to said slider row. 16. The method recited in claim 15, wherein said parting device is calibrated prior to parting any slider from any slider row. 17. The method recited in claim 16, wherein said relationship between said parting device and said ABS centroid location of a slider may be determined as M=C+X-W, where C=said ABS centroid location, X=1/2 Z, and W is determined by establishing a location of a Du side of said parting device during calibration, said Du side of said parting device being juxtaposed to a parting side of a slider as said slider is parted from a slider row. 18. The method recited in claim 17, wherein said ABS centroid location is calculated as C.sub.ABS =Z/2. 19. The method recited in claim 17, wherein said ABS centroid location is calculated based upon an ABS fly height model. 