In one embodiment of the present invention, a planning apparatus and method for earthmoving operations with a front-end loader, such as loading a bucket with material and unloading the material in a receptacle, is disclosed including multi-level processing for planning the operation. One of the processing levels is a coarse-level planner that uses geometry of the site and heuristics specified by expert operators to find an optimal area from which to remove material. The next level involves searching the area for an exact starting location. This is accomplished by choosing among candidate excavations for the site with the optimum performance criteria including maximum amount of material protruding from the pile, minimum side loading of the bucket, and minimum distance from the loading receptacle. Other performance criteria that are evaluated for the candidate excavation include whether the front-end loader is capable of making the turns required by a candidate trajectory, and whether obstacles are in the path of the trajectory.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for planning earthmoving operations using a terrain map of an excavation area, and a front-end loading machine having a work implement including a bucket, the method comprising the steps of: (a) determining a plurality of candidate regions for starting an excavation; (b) determining a quality rating for each candidate region by evaluating at least one performance criterion associated with selecting the optimum position for starting the excavation; and (c) selecting one of said plurality candidate regions as a starting location as a function of the quality rating. 2. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the step (a) further comprises determining edge points of each candidate region and determining the boundary of each candidate region by examining the distance of the edge points to a loading receptacle in which the excavated material will be loaded. 3. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the step (a) further comprises determining an orientation of the bucket for each candidate region wherein the front corners of the bucket are proximate the pile of material. 4. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one performance criterion includes the uniformity of distribution of the material in the bucket. 5. The method, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one performance criterion includes the concavity of material at the candidate location. 6. The method, as set forth in claim 1, further comprising step (d) of determining a proposed path of movement between the starting location and the loading receptacle. 7. The method, as set forth in claim 6, wherein the step (d) further comprises determining whether the distance along the proposed path of movement is within a maximum allowable distance. 8. The method, as set forth in claim 6, wherein the step (d) further comprises determining whether the front-end loading machine is capable of being maneuvered along the proposed path of movement. 9. An apparatus for planning earthmoving operations using a work implement of a front-end loading machine, the work implement includes a bucket, the planning apparatus comprises: a terrain map of an excavation site represented in numerical form; and a data processor operable to determine a plurality of candidate regions of the bucket for starting an excavation based upon the terrain map, the data processor further operable to determine a quality rating for each candidate region by evaluating at least one performance criterion associated with selecting the optimum position for starting the excavation, and to select one of said plurality of candidate regions as a starting location as a function of the quality rating. 10. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 9, wherein the data processor is further operable to determine a plurality of edge points of the excavation site and an edge point of the plurality of edge points that is closest to a loading receptacle in which the excavated material will be loaded. 11. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 9, wherein the data processor is further operable to determine an orientation of the longitudinal axis of the bucket for each candidate region wherein the front corners of the bucket are proximate the pile of material. 12. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 9, wherein the at least one performance criterion includes the uniformity of distribution of the material in the bucket. 13. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 9, wherein the at least one performance criterion includes the concavity of material at the candidate location. 14. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 9, wherein the data processor is further operable to determine a proposed path of movement between each candidate region and a loading receptacle. 15. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 14, wherein the data processor is further operable to determine whether the distance along the proposed path of movement is within a maximum allowable distance. 16. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 14, wherein the data processor is further operable to determine whether the front-end loading machine is capable of being maneuvered along the proposed path of movement. 