A system for facilitating wafer transfer comprises a susceptor unit consisting of an inner susceptor section which rests within an outer susceptor section. A vertically movable and rotatable support spider located beneath the susceptor unit can rotate into positions to engage either the inner or the outer susceptor sections. When the inner section is engaged, the support spider lifts the inner section vertically out of the outer section. When the outer section is engaged, the support spider raises and lowers the entire susceptor unit. A fork type robotic arm end effector permits wafer pick up and unloading by the inner susceptor section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a susceptor having first and second sections which together form a susceptor unit for supporting a substrate; and a first susceptor support having one position in which it supports said first section, and a second position rotated with respect to said sections in which it supports the second section. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sections are rotatably coupled and are vertically moveable relative to each other to facilitate loading and unloading of the substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first susceptor section has a generally annular shape which surrounds said second section, and said sections have interengaging portions that cause them to be rotationally coupled. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said sections are vertically coupled so that said first section supports said second section, but said sections are vertically movable relative to each other. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first section is configured to vertically support said second section and said sections have a substrate process position in which said support engages said first section in which said support and said sections are rotatably coupled so that rotation of said support will rotate the susceptor unit. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said susceptor sections have a load/unload position in which said support engages the second section, and said sections are relatively movable vertically so as to enable said second section to cooperate with a tool carrying a substrate for transfer of the substrate to and from the second section. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, including a second susceptor support for supporting said first susceptor section when the first mentioned support is supporting the second section. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said supports are vertically movable relative to each other. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said susceptor unit has a process position wherein the support engages the first susceptor section which in turn supports the second section; and wherein, said support is vertically movable to move said susceptor unit from said process position to an etch position spaced above the process position. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sections include interengaging portions that enable said first section to vertically support said second section, and said interengaging portions rotatably couple said sections. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said sections are vertically movable relative to each other. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, including a tool having a forked end portion for supporting a substrate, and said second susceptor section is sized to fit between said forked end during relative vertical movement between the fork and the second susceptor section. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first section has a generally annular shape and a plurality of circumferentially spaced segments which radiate inwardly from the inner margin of its annular shape, and said second section has a plurality of circumferentially space segments which radiate outwardly to fit between the segments of the first section. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said segments have interengaging flanged surfaces that enable said first section to vertically support said second section. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first section has a generally annular shape with a concentrically positioned circular recess, and said second section has a circular outer and upper portion which fits within said recess. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said first section has flange portions positioned beneath said recess, and said second section has peripheral flange portions that extend over the flange portions on said first section, so that said first section supports the second section. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said sections are rotatably coupled. 18. An apparatus comprising: a susceptor having first and second sections which together form a susceptor unit for supporting a substrate; and a first susceptor support having one position in which it supports said first section, and a second position rotated with respect to the first position in which it supports the second section, wherein said support is in the form of a multiarm spider which engages a plurality of segments on said first section in said one position, and engages a plurality of segments on said second section in said second position. 19. An apparatus for supporting a substrate comprising: an outer annular susceptor section and an inner centrally located susceptor section positioned within the outer section, said sections having interengaging portions that enable the sections to fit together to form a susceptor unit and having substantially coplanar upper surfaces forming a unitary surface for receiving a substrates, said interengaging portions rotatably coupling said sections while permitting relative vertical movement between said sections, said sections having a circular interface on their upper surfaces and having interengaging flange portions on said sections beneath the interface. 20. An apparatus comprising: a substrate processing chamber; a susceptor in said chamber for horizontally supporting a substrate within the chamber, said susceptor being formed of a central section and a surrounding annular section which supports the inner section, said sections being configured to mate together to form a susceptor unit having an upper surface for receiving a substrate; and one or more supports for said susceptor sections for supporting the susceptor in a process position and for producing relative vertical movement between the sections so that said central section is in a substrate load and unload position to have a substrate transferred to and from a tool and the central susceptor section, said supports including a multi-armed support for supporting and rotating said annular section and a second support for raising said central section to facilitate transfer of a substrate from the tool to the central section. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said second support is a multiarmed support concentric with the first support but rotatably offset with respect to the first support. 22. An apparatus comprising: a susceptor having first and second sections which together form a susceptor unit for supporting a substrate; and a first susceptor support having one position in which it supports said first section, and a second position rotated with respect to the first position in which it supports the second section. 23. A method of loading and unloading a substrate from a susceptor in a chamber comprising the steps of: supporting an outer susceptor section with an outer support while supporting a central susceptor section with said outer section; producing relative vertical movement between said central susceptor section and said outer susceptor section so that the inner section is spaced above the outer section on a moveable support; moving a substrate with a tool into position spaced above said central susceptor section; providing relative vertical movement between said central section and said tool to transfer the substrate to the central section with portions of the substrate overlapping the central section; withdrawing the robotic arm from above the susceptor; producing relative vertical movement between said susceptor sections so as to cause the central section to fit within and be supported by the outer susceptor section forming a susceptor unit for supporting said substrate. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising lowering said movable support further until it is disengaged from said central susceptor section; rotating the movable support to a position wherein it is beneath said outer susceptor section; and raising said movable support to engage said outer susceptor section and lift the susceptor unit from said outer support and into a process position. 25. The method of claim 24, lowering said susceptor unit so that it rests solely upon the outer support; lowering said movable support further and rotating it so that it is beneath said inner susceptor section; raising said inner susceptor section to lift said substrate above said susceptor section; moving said robotic arm end effector horizontally in a plane between the susceptor sections; producing relative vertical movement between the inner susceptor section and the tool to transfer the substrate to the tool; and withdrawing the end effector horizontally to remove the substrate from above the susceptor. 