A controlled relative motion system comprising a base support, a pivot holder and a plurality of pivoting links with the pivoting links rotatably coupled to both the base support and to members of the pivot holder to rotate about axes which extend in different directions for each of these rotatable couplings in a link, typically in accord with specific geometrical arrangements, and in different directions from similar axes in another of such links. Such systems can incorporate a variety of force imparting members to control movements of various ones of the pivoting links or pivot holder members. The pivoting links can be bent, and the pivot holder members can be hinged.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to another base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a base support; a manipulable support; a first pivot holder comprising at least one holding member having a first portion thereof rotatably connected to a second portion thereof; a first plurality of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis and each coupled to said first pivot holder so as to be rotatable about a corresponding holder link axis including at least one of said first plurality of pivoting links being rotatably connected to said first pivot holder holding member first portion as aforesaid, each of said first plurality of pivoting links having said corresponding base link axis thereof extending in a direction differing from that in which said corresponding holder link axis thereof extends, each of said first plurality of pivoting links having said corresponding base link axis thereof and said corresponding holder link axis thereof extending in different directions than do said corresponding base link axis and said corresponding holder link axis of another of said first plurality of pivoting links; and a second plurality of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to said first pivot holder so as to be rotatable about a corresponding holder link axis and each coupled to said manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding support link axis including at least one of said second plurality of pivoting links being rotatably connected to said first pivot holder holding member second portion as aforesaid, each of said second plurality of pivoting links having said corresponding holder link axis thereof extending in a direction differing from that in which said corresponding support link axis thereof extends, each of said second plurality of pivoting links having said corresponding holder link axis thereof and said corresponding support link axis thereof extending in different directions than do said corresponding holder link axis and said corresponding support link axis of another of said second plurality of pivoting links. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 where one of said first plurality of pivoting links has said base link axis thereof and said holding link axis thereof each oriented substantially perpendicular to planes which intersect one another at substantially right angles. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of said base link axes extend along a corresponding radius of a circle centered in said base support, and each said base link axis being separated from another such axis adjacent thereto by an angle substantially equal to 360.degree. divided by that total number of said pivoting links in said first plurality of pivoting links. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said first plurality of said pivoting links is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a pin extending between said base support and that said pivoting link about which rotation can occur by at least one of said base support and that said pivoting link. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein at least one of said base support and said pivoting link between which said pin extends is coupled to said pin through a bearing means. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said first plurality of said pivoting links is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a clevis supported by said base support. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said base support is held by a mounting arrangement. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said mounting arrangement comprises a base housing, a first rotatable housing and a second rotatable housing, said base housing comprising a pair of force imparting members each capable of providing a rotational motive force and each rotatably connected to a corresponding one of said first and second rotatable housings by at least one pair of rigid linking members. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each of said pair of force imparting members is rotatably connected to said pair of rigid linking members through a rotatable body, and said force imparting member rotatably connected to said second rotatable housing is so connected with two pairs of rigid linking members which are rotatably connected to one another through a further rotatable body. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said mounting arrangement comprises a cable extending through said base and manipulable supports and a cable motive means capable of rotating said cable with respect to said manipulable support. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said mounting arrangement comprises a cable extending through said base and manipulable supports and a cable motive means capable of translating said cable with respect to said manipulable support. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said base link axes extend along a corresponding radius of a circle centered in said base support, and each said base link axis being separated from another such axis adjacent thereto by an angle substantially equal to 360.degree. divided by that total number of said pivoting links in said first plurality of pivoting links. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first plurality of force imparting members each coupled to a said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof so as to be able to cause at least one of those said pivoting links in said first plurality thereof to rotate about its corresponding said base link axis, and wherein at least one of said first plurality of force imparting members provides a rotational motive force. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each of said pivoting links in said first plurality thereof has coupled thereto a corresponding one of said first plurality of force imparting members. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first plurality of force imparting members each coupled to a said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof so as to be able to cause at least one of those said pivoting links in said first plurality thereof to rotate about its corresponding said base link axis, and wherein at least one of said first plurality of force imparting members provides a linear motive force. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein each of said pivoting links in said first plurality thereof has coupled thereto a corresponding one of said first plurality of force imparting members. 