The non-contact sensor employs a structured light source that emits light in a predefined planar configuration and an optical receiver for reading reflected light produced by the structured light source within a predefined field of view. A tetrahedron target structure includes a three-dimensional framework that defines at least three non-collinear, non-coplanar structural lines each simultaneously visible to the sensor. A calibration system is coupled to the gauging system and the non-contact sensor for calibrating the gauging system by evaluating the geometric relationship of the structured light reflected from the structural lines of the target structure to determine the position and orientation of the target structure and then correlating the structural lines to the gauging system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A movable gauging system of the type having at least one movable member that is movable within an external measurement zone having associated therewith an external coordinate system, comprising: a non-contact sensor having associated therewith a field of view defining a sensor measurement zone and disposed on the movable member so that said non-contact sensor is moveable in association with the movable member within said external measurement zone; at least one target structure having a three-dimensional framework that defines at least three non-collinear, non-coplanar structural lines, said at least one target structure having a known location within said external measurement zone relative to said external coordinate system; said non-contact sensor being positionable by said movable member so that said target structure is located within said field of view of the sensor for sensing the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure within said sensor measurement zone; and a coordinate translation system connected to said non-contact sensor for calibrating the gauging system to said external coordinate system, said coordinate translation system performing a geometric transformation for linking said sensor measurement zone with said external coordinate system and generating gauging reference coordinates which compensate for positional error associated with the moveable member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a robot controller device for positioning said non-contact sensor within said field of view of said at least one target structure. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coordinate translation system determines an intermediate reference frame from the light reflected from said structural lines of said target structure by which said sensor measurement zone can be fixed relative to said external coordinate system. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said non-contact sensor employs a structured light source, said non-contact sensor emitting structured light in a predetermined planar configuration and having an optical receiver for receiving reflected light emitted by said non-contact sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a memory storage device connected to said non-contact sensor for storing data, wherein an output signal from said non-contact sensor indicative of the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure is stored in said memory storage device as data; said coordinate translation system connected to said memory storage device for determining a variation in the relationship of said non-contact sensor to the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure by retrieving said data from said memory storage device and calculating the variation. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in length of the movable member resulting from temperature variation. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for a variation in length of the movable member. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said non-contact sensor is a two-dimensional structural light sensor. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said target structure is a tetrahedron. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for sensor variation. 13. A movable robot gauging system of the type used to control a robot having at least one movable member that is movable within an external measurement zone having associated therewith an external coordinate system, comprising: a non-contact sensor having associated therewith a field of view defining a sensor measurement zone and disposed on the movable member so that said non-contact sensor is movable in association with the movable member throughout six degrees of freedom within said external measurement zone; at least one target structure having a three-dimensional framework that defines at least three non-collinear, non-coplanar structural lines, said at least one target structure having a fixed known location within said external measurement zone relative to said external coordinate system; said non-contact sensor being positionable by said movable member so that said target structure is located within said field of view of the sensor for sensing the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure within said sensor measurement zone; a robot controller device for causing the movable member of the robot and the sensor to make optical contact with said target structure to establish a target structure coordinate point of said target structure to the robot, the robot controller device also causing said robot to position said non-contact sensor within said field of view of said target structure from the target structure coordinate point; and a coordinate translation system connected to said non-contact sensor for calibrating the gauging system to said external coordinate system, said coordinate translation system performing a geometric transformation for linking said sensor measurement zone with said external coordinate system and generating gauging reference coordinates which compensate for positional error associated with the moveable member. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said coordinate translation system determines the position and orientation of said at least one target structure and then correlates said at least one target structure to said non-contact sensor to determine the position and orientation of said non-contact sensor. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said non-contact sensor employs a structured light source, said non-contact sensor emitting structured light in a predefined planer configuration and having optical receiver for receiving reflected light emitted by said non-contact sensor. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a memory storage device connected to said non-contact sensor for storing data, wherein an output signal from said non-contact sensor indicative of the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure is stored as data; said coordinate translation system connected to said memory storage device for determining a variation in the relationship of said non-contact sensor to the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure by retrieving said data from said memory storage device and calculating the variation. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in length of the movable member resulting from temperature variation. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for a variation in length of the movable member. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said non-contact sensor is a contour sensor. 20. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said target structure is a tetrahedron. 21. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said target structure includes a plate with at least one aperture. 22. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 23. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 24. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for sensor variation. 25. A movable robot gauging system of the type having at least one movable member, comprising: at least one non-contact sensor, said non-contact sensor being positioned in a first coordinate space defining a sensor reference frame; a target structure for attaching to a movable member of the robot, said target structure including a three-dimensional framework that defines at least three non-collinear, non-coplanar structural lines, said at least one target structure being movable in association with the movable member within a second coordinate space defining a target reference frame; said non-contact sensor sensing the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure, said non-contact sensor emitting structured light in a predefined planar configuration and having an optical receiver for receiving reflected light emitted by said non-contact sensor; and a coordinate translation system connected to said at least one non-contact sensor for calibrating the sensor to said at least one target structure based upon the structured light reflected from said structural lines of said target structure, said coordinate translation system performing a geometric transformation for linking said sensor reference frame with said target reference frame and generating gauging reference coordinates which compensate for positional error associated with the moveable member. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising: a robot controller device for positioning said target structure within said field of view of said at least one non-contact sensor. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising: a memory storage device connected to said non-contact sensor for storing data, wherein an output signal from said non-contact sensor indicative of the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure is stored as data; said coordinate translation system connected to said memory storage device for determining a variation in the relationship of said non-contact sensor to the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure by retrieving said data from said memory storage device and calculating the variation. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in length of the movable member resulting from temperature variation. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for a variation in length of the movable member. 30. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said coordinate translation system determines the position and orientation of said target structure and then correlates said at least one target structure to said at least one non-contact sensor to determine the position and orientation of said target structure. 31. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said non-contact sensor employs a structured light source. 32. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said non-contact sensor is a contour sensor. 33. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said target structure is a tetrahedron. 34. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 35. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 36. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for sensor variation. 37. A robot based gauging system comprising: at least one movable member associated with a robot that is movable within an external measurement zone having associated therewith an external coordinate system; a robot guidance system for guiding the robot; an apparatus for calibrating said robot guidance system; a non-contact sensor having associated therewith a field of view defining a sensor measurement zone and disposed on the movable member so that said non-contact sensor is movable in association with the movable member throughout six degrees of freedom within said external measurement zone; at least one target structure having a three-dimensional framework that defines at least three non-collinear, non-coplanar structural lines, said at least one target structure having a known fixed location within said external measurement zone relative to said external coordinate system; said non-contact sensor being positionable by said movable member so that said target structure is located within said field of view of the sensor for sensing the spatial location and orientation of said at least one target structure within said sensor measurement zone; and a coordinate translation system connected to said non-contact sensor for calibrating the gauging system to said external coordinate system, said coordinate translation system performing a geometric transformation for linking said sensor measurement zone with said external coordinate system and generating gauging reference coordinates which compensate for positional error associated with said moveable member, and said coordinate translation system determining an intermediate reference frame from the light reflected from said structural lines of said target structure by which said sensor measurement zone can be fixed relative to said external coordinate system. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 further comprising: a robot controller device for positioning said non-contact sensor within said field of view of said at least one target structure. 39. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein said coordinate translation system determines a variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 40. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for variation in joint angle associated with at least one movable member resulting from temperature variation. 41. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein said coordinate translation system compensates for sensor variation. 42. A moveable gauging system comprising: an external measurement zone having associated therewith an external coordinate system; a movable member movable within said external measurement zone; a sensor having associated therewith a field of view defining a sensor measurement zone, and mounted on said movable member so as to be positionable by said movable member at multiple selected positions within said external measurement zone to measure one or more predetermined features of a workpiece positionable within said external measurement zone, said sensor taking a measurement of a selected feature when said sensor is positioned by said movable member so that said selected feature is located within said sensor measurement zone; at least one target structure disposed within said external measurement zone at a predefined location relative to said external coordinate system; and a coordinate translation system coupled to said sensor for calibrating said gauging system to said external coordinate system when said sensor is positioned by said movable member so that said target is located within said sensor field of view, said coordinate translation system performing a geometric transformation for linking said sensor measurement zone with said external coordinate system and generating gauging reference coordinates which compensate for positional error associated with the movable member. 43. A method of calibrating a movable gauging system relative to an external coordinate system defining an external measurement zone, said movable gauging system including a non-contact sensor having associated therewith a field of view defining a sensor measurement zone, and mounted on a robotic manipulator for moving said non-contact sensor within said external measurement zone for gauging a workpiece located within said external measurement zone, comprising the steps of: providing a fixed location target at a predetermined location within the external measurement zone relative to said external coordinate system; moving said robotic manipulator so as to position said fixed location target within said sensor field of view; measuring the position of said fixed location target relative to said sensor measurement zone; comparing said sensor measured target position with said predetermined target location; performing a geometric transformation using a coordinate translation system for linking said sensor measurement zone with said external coordinate system; generating gauging reference coordinates which compensate for positional error associated with the robotic manipulator; and calculating offset data from the measured target position and the predetermined target location and using the offset data for compensating for positional error associated with the robotic manipulator. 44. The method of claim 43 further including the step of measuring environmental conditions surrounding the robotic manipulator and determining whether a deviation in the environmental conditions requires recalibration of the gauging system. 45. The method of claim 43 further including the steps of: moving the sensor via the robotic manipulator in proximity to the workpiece; sensing features associated with the workpiece; generating sensor measurement position data representing the position of the sensor with respect to the workpiece; and applying the offset data to the sensor measurement position data for determining a position of the features associated with the workpiece. 