A method and apparatus for constructing a three-dimensional object. There is provided a lamination unit for holding and pressing a block of material, a slicing unit for cutting the block to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface; a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into at least one planar element; and an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape and for controlling the operation of the lamination means, the slicing means, and the profiling means. Formation occurs by providing the electronic means with the XYZ information, placing the block in a position for holding the first working surface and the cut block having the second working surface; profiling at least one of the working surfaces to form the planar element having a shape corresponding to the computerized cross-section representation at that slicing level; pressing the second working surface of the cut block against the first surface of the horizontal layer using the lamination means; and repeating the slicing and profiling steps until the object is formed. In another embodiment of the invention, the material holding, support and shaping means are used to fabricate objects which do not require lamination.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a block of supply material, b. providing a lamination means for holding and pressing the block, c. providing a slicing means for cutting the block to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface and a cut block having a second working surface, d. providing a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element, e. providing an installation means for providing a temporary support to a portion, or portions, of the planar element f. providing an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of said lamination means, said slicing means, said profiling means, and said installation means, g. providing the electronic means with the XYZ information, h. placing the block in a position for holding by the lamination means, i. slicing the block using the slicing means to provide the horizontal layer having the first working surface and the cut block having the second working surface, the layer and the cut block each held by the lamination means, j. profiling at least one of the working surfaces using the profiling means to form the planar element having a shape corresponding to said computerized cross-section representation at that slicing level, k. pressing the second working surface of the block in step j against the layer of step j using the lamination means, installing the temporary support for said portion or portions of the planar element of step j, and then l. repeating said steps i, j and k until the object is formed. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of applying a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 3. A method of constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a block of supply material, having a first working surface and a second working surface, b. providing two gripping means for holding the block and controlling its elevation, c. providing a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element, d. providing an installation means for providing a temporary support to a portion, or portions, of the planar element, e. providing an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of said gripping means, said profiling means, said installation means, and f. providing the electronic means with the XYZ information, g. placing the block in a position for holding by one of the gripping means, h. profiling the first working surface using the profiling means to form a first planar element having a shape corresponding to said computerized cross-section representation adjacent to said working surface, i. pressing the block against the other gripping means, and installing the temporary support material, j. holding the block by the other gripping means and releasing the block from the step-g gripping means, k. profiling the second working surface using the profiling means to form a second planar element having a shape corresponding to said computerized cross-section representation adjacent to said working surface, l. releasing said block and said planar elements from the other gripping means, and m. releasing said first planar element from temporary support. 4. A apparatus for constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the apparatus comprising: a. a first gripping means for holding and locating a first surface of a block of supply material, b. a second gripping means for receiving the block from the first gripping means and for holding and locating a second surface, different from the first surface, of the block, c. a profiling means for profiling the first working surface into a planar element while the block is held by the first gripping means and for profiling the second working surface into a planar element while the block is held by the second gripping means, d. an installation means for providing temporary support to a portion of at least one of the planar elements, and e. an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of the first and second gripping means, the profiling means, and the installation means; wherein the profiled elements have a shape corresponding to the computerized cross-sectional representation of the shape. 5. An apparatus for constructing a three-dimensional object having a predetermined shape, the apparatus comprising: a. a lamination means for holding and pressing a block of material, b. a slicing means for cutting the block to form a horizontal layer having a first working surface, and a cut block having a second working surface, c. a profiling means for profiling at least one of the working surfaces into a planar element, d. an installation means for providing a temporary support to a portion, or portions, of the planar element e. an electronic means for receiving XYZ information corresponding to the shape of the object, for processing the XYZ information into a plurality of computerized cross-sectional representations of the shape, and for controlling the operation of said lamination means, said slicing means, and said profiling means to form the object. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further including an application means for placing a material to facilitate bonding of the layers. 