The different illustrative embodiments provide a method for generating an area coverage path plan using sector decomposition. A starting point is identified on a worksite map having a number of landmarks. A first landmark in the number of landmarks is identified. A path is generated around the first landmark until an obstacle is detected. In response to detecting the obstacle, the path is made linear to a next landmark. The path is generated around the next landmark.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for generating an area coverage path plan, the apparatus comprising: a processor unit configured to generate an area coverage path plan using a number of landmarks for a worksite by generating a path around a first landmark until an obstacle is detected, and responsive to detecting the obstacle, making the path linear to a vicinity of a next landmark, and generating the path around the next landmark; and a vehicle control process configured to execute the area coverage path plan for the worksite received from the processor unit using a mobility system; wherein the processor unit is further configured to receive a worksite map for the worksite having the number of landmarks; generate an area coverage grid map having a number of area coverage grid elements for the worksite using the worksite map; generate a path plan for the worksite using the worksite map and the area coverage grid map; mark the number of landmarks on the worksite map as unvisited; and initialize the number of area coverage grid elements as uncovered. 2. A method for generating an area coverage path plan, the method comprising: identifying a starting point on a worksite map having a number of landmarks; identifying a first landmark in the number of landmarks; generating a path around the first landmark until an obstacle is detected, wherein the path around the first landmark is a set of concentric arcs; responsive to detecting the obstacle, making the path linear to a vicinity of a next landmark; generating the path around the next landmark; identifying a landmark marked as unvisited on the worksite map; sending a message to a vehicle control process to proceed to the landmark marked as unvisited; and executing an area coverage behavior on a path around the landmark. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining whether an obstacle is detected; responsive to a determination that the obstacle is detected, marking the landmark marked as unvisited as visited on the worksite map; and marking associated area coverage grid elements of the landmark marked as visited as covered. 4. A method for generating an area coverage path plan, the method comprising: identifying a starting point on a worksite map having a number of landmarks; identifying a first landmark in the number of landmarks; generating a path around the first landmark until an obstacle is detected, wherein the path around the first landmark is a set of concentric arcs; responsive to detecting the obstacle, making the path linear to a vicinity of a next landmark; generating the path around the next landmark; determining whether there are any remaining landmarks marked as unvisited; responsive to a determination that there are remaining landmarks marked as unvisited, identifying a next landmark marked as unvisited on the worksite map; and sending a message to a vehicle control process to proceed to the next landmark marked as unvisited; responsive to a determination that there are no remaining landmarks marked as unvisited, determining whether there are any remaining area coverage grid elements marked as uncovered; responsive to a determination that there are remaining area coverage grid elements marked as uncovered, sending a message to the vehicle control process to proceed along the path plan to a visited landmark associated with an area coverage grid element marked as uncovered; and executing an area coverage behavior on a path around the visited landmark. 5. A method for generating an area coverage path plan, the method comprising: identifying a starting point on a worksite map having a number of landmarks; identifying a first landmark in the number of landmarks; generating a path around the first landmark until an obstacle is detected, wherein the path around the first landmark is a set of concentric arcs; responsive to detecting the obstacle, making the path linear to a vicinity of a next landmark; generating the path around the next landmark; determining an expected width of a landmark in pixels for a desired distance away from the landmark; identifying an image having the landmark; determining an observed width of the landmark using the image; comparing the observed width of the landmark to the expected width of the landmark; and sending a message to a vehicle control process to move an autonomous vehicle based on the comparison of the observed width and the expected width. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: filtering the image to form a filtered image consisting of the landmark. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: normalizing an orientation of the landmark in a vertical direction in the image. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein comparing the observed width of the landmark to the expected width of the landmark further comprises: determining whether the observed width of the landmark is greater than the expected width of the landmark; and responsive to a determination that the observed width is greater than the expected width, sending a message to the vehicle control process to move the autonomous vehicle away from the landmark. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: responsive to a determination that the observed width is not greater than the expected width, determining whether the observed width is less than the expected width; responsive to a determination that the observed width is less than the expected width, sending a message to the vehicle control process to move the autonomous vehicle toward the landmark. 