A method of controlling the position of an elongate robotic arm comprising articulated segments. An actuator is associated with each segment to control its position, and a control system operates the actuators. Data representing the position of the arm is gathered and compared to input data that represents a required new position of a part of the arm. Data representing the required new position of the arm is then calculated, attempting to keep the remainder of the arm as close as possible to its previous position. The actuators are operated to move the arm into the new position. In tip following, the data representing the new position may define a path, and the arm may be fitted to the path by matching the position and orientation of a point on each pair of adjacent segments to that of the path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a robotic arm, the arm having a plurality of articulated segments, an actuator associated with each segment for controlling a position of the segment, and a control system for operating the actuators in order to place the arm in a required position, the method comprising: providing data representing a required position of the arm, the data defining a path comprising a series of points, each point having a position and an orientation; calculating a position in which the arm is to be placed, in which a single point on each pair of adjacent segments has substantially the same orientation as the path and is located as closely as possible to the position of the path, and operating the actuators to move the arm into the position. 2. A method according to claim 1, in which the plurality of segments comprises at least three adjacent segments. 3. A robotic arm arranged to be operated according to the method as claimed in claim 1. 4. A method according to claim 1, in which the data representing the required position of the arm is data representing a space occupied by the arm. 5. A method according to claim 1, in which the data representing the required position of the arm is data defining a line, or tube. 6. A method according to claim 5, in which the line is continuously curving, or comprises a plurality of discrete curves. 7. A method according to claim 5, in which the line is a series of discrete points, or an interpolation between such points. 8. A method according to claim 1, in which the data representing the required position of the arm is obtained by measuring a shape of the arm, or by analyzing previous actuator operation. 9. A method according to claim 1, in which different algorithms are used simultaneously to control different segments of the same device or where segments of the arm are operated in transition between different algorithms. 10. A method according to claim 1, in which the data representing the required position of the arm relates to a new position of a tip and also of a midpoint of the arm. 11. A method according to claim 1, in which the data is input using a manual input device interfaced to the control system through a computer, or attached to the arm itself. 12. A method according to claim 1, in which one or more collars are located at points along the arm, being no more than in loose contact with the arm, with a relative motion of the collar with respect to the arm being measured in order to define a desired new pose for the arm. 