Apparatus for coating a surface of a semiconductor wafer includes at least one treatment module, a handling device that may access each of the treatment modules, and a host controller connected to the handling device and to each of the treatment modules. The treatment modules may include a coating assembly for coating the semiconductor wafer surface and may also include at least one thermal conditioning module. The host controller may control the handling device to move a semiconductor wafer relative to the treatment modules. The treatment modules may be disposed within opposing assemblies and may be removed from the assemblies without disabling the treatment modules remaining within the opposing assemblies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for treating a surface of a semiconductor wafer, the apparatus comprising: at least one front assembly defining a front face of the apparatus; at least one treatment module arranged in said front assembly, at least a portion of said treatment module accessible from said front face of the apparatus; at least one rear assembly defining a rear face of the apparatus, said rear assembly positioned to oppose said front assembly, said front and rear assemblies thereby defining a middle portion therebetween; at least two treatment modules arranged in said rear assembly, at least a portion of said treatment modules accessible from said rear face of the apparatus, wherein at least one of said treatment modules is oriented above at least one other of said treatment modules; a horizontally stationary semiconductor wafer handling device positioned in said middle portion; and a host controller connected to said plurality of said treatment modules and said handling device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a substrate loading platform included in one of said opposing assemblies and accessible by said handling device. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein: said treatment module includes a coating assembly and wherein said coating assembly and said substrate loading platform are arranged in a first assembly; and said plurality of treatment modules includes at least one thermal conditioning module and wherein said plurality of treatment modules are arranged in a second assembly opposing said first assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein: said opposing assemblies have outwardly opposing faces; and said at least one thermal conditioning module and said coating assembly are removable from said outwardly opposing face of said second and first assemblies, respectively. 5. An apparatus for treating a surface of a semiconductor wafer, the apparatus comprising: a front portion haying a front face and a first opposing face; a rear portion spaced from said front portion to define a middle portion therebetween, said rear portion defining a back face and a second opposing face and being oriented relative to said front portion such that said first opposing face faces said second opposing face; at least one self-controlled treatment module supported in said front portion and at least one other self-controlled treatment module supported in said rear portion such that all of said self-controlled treatment modules are accessible through a corresponding one of said front and rear faces; at least one horizontally stationary handling device in said middle portion; and a host controller connected to said handling device and to said self-controlled treatment modules. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said handling device is a self-controlled handling device. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said handling device comprises: a robot having at least one rotatable reciprocating end effector; and a robot controller attached between said robot and said host controller. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein each said treatment module is self controlled by executing treatment instructions provided by said host controller. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said handling device is a self-controlled handling device executing handling instructions provided by said host controller. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said handling device comprises: a robot having at least one rotatable reciprocating end effector; and a robot controller attached between said robot and said host controller. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein at least one of said treatment modules comprises a thermal conditioning module. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said handling device further includes a semiconductor wafer aligner. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said semiconductor wafer aligner further comprises an alignment controller connected to said host controller. 14. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a recipe server containing semiconductor wafer thermal conditioning, coating, and handling information and accessible by said host controller. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said substrate information is accessed using a code provided as input to said host controller. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a bar code scanner connected to said host controller. 17. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said coating assembly comprises: a process bowl having a bottom and an interior, said bottom including an opening; a rotatable spindle movable in said opening in said bottom; a chuck disposed in said interior of said process bowl and attached to said spindle; and a process liquid dispense arm positioned adjacent said chuck. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said coating assembly further comprises a spin station controller connected between said host controller and said chuck and said dispense arm. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said coating assembly further comprises a spindle controller connected between said spindle and said spin station controller. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said coating assembly further comprises: a spindle actuator attached to said spindle; and an actuator controller connected to said actuator and said spin station controller. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said actuator controller is further connected to said dispense arm. 22. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising: a support equipment server connected between said host controller and said coating assembly; and an environmental control system connected between said host controller and said coating assembly. 23. Apparatus for treating a semiconductor wafer comprising: a first treatment unit having a first front portion defining a first front face and a first opposing face and a first rear portion spaced from said first front portion to define a first middle portion therebetween wherein said first rear portion has a first back face and a second opposing face and is oriented relative to said first front portion such that said first opposing face faces said second opposing face and wherein said first treatment unit further comprises at least one first self-controlled treatment module supported in said first front portion and at least one other first self-controlled treatment module supported in said first rear portion such that all of said first self-controlled treatment modules are accessible from a corresponding one of said first front face and said first rear face, said first self-controlled treatment module further having two first lateral sides and at least one first horizontally stationary handling device in said first middle portion; and a second treatment unit oriented adjacent one of said first lateral sides and having a second front portion defining a second front face and a primary opposing face and a second rear portion spaced from said second front portion to define a second middle portion therebetween wherein said second rear portion has a second back face and a secondary opposing face and is oriented relative to said second front portion such that said primary opposing face faces said secondary opposing face and wherein said second treatment unit comprises at least one second self-controlled treatment module supported in said second front portion and at least one other second self-controlled treatment module supported in said second rear portion such that all of said second self-controlled treatment modules are accessible through a corresponding one of said second front face and said second rear face, said second treatment unit further having at least one second horizontally stationary handling unit in said second middle portion. 