A robotic surgical system includes a sterile surgical instrument, a robotic surgical manipulator, and a sterile drape covering at least a portion of the robotic surgical manipulator. The surgical instrument has a proximal interface and a distal end effector. The proximal interface includes a gimbal assembly with two intersecting rotational axes coupled to the distal end effector. The robotic surgical manipulator has a drive plate that bears against the gimbal assembly. The drive plate has two degrees of rotational freedom about a center of motion that is coincident with an intersection of the axes of the gimbal assembly. The sterile drape includes a sterile sheet covers at least a portion of the robotic surgical manipulator, a frame bonded to the sterile sheet, an instrument interface that covers the drive plate of the robotic surgical manipulator, and a diaphragm that connects the instrument interface to the frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical apparatus comprising: a sterile sheet that covers at least a portion of a robotic surgical manipulator; a substantially rigid frame coupled to the sterile sheet; an instrument interface; and a diaphragm that connects the instrument interface to the frame, the diaphragm allowing the instrument interface to move with two degrees of rotational freedom when the instrument interface is positioned at least in part between a drive plate of the robotic surgical manipulator and a gimbal assembly of a surgical instrument attached to the robotic surgical manipulator. 2. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the frame comprises an attachment structure, the attachment structure extending substantially perpendicular to a plane of the diaphragm. 3. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a coupling adjacent the instrument interface, the coupling rotating when the coupling is at least in part between a rotary output of the robotic surgical manipulator and a rotary input of the surgical instrument attached to the robotic surgical manipulator. 4. The surgical apparatus of claim 3 wherein the coupling comprises a peripheral groove that engages the diagram to provide a seal that allows the coupling to rotate. 5. The surgical apparatus of claim 3 wherein the coupling includes a face with projections to engage the surgical instrument. 6. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the instrument interface transmits motion of the drive plate to the gimbal assembly. 7. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the diaphragm and the instrument interface are configured to receive a protruding portion of the drive plate that extends outwardly from a driving surface and beyond the center of motion of the drive plate. 8. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the diaphragm comprises a plurality of openings that receive a plurality of alignment features on the drive plate. 9. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 wherein the diaphragm is convoluted in a region between the instrument interface and the frame. 10. The surgical apparatus of claim 1 further comprising the robotic surgical manipulator, and the surgical instrument coupled to the robotic surgical manipulator. 11. A method comprising: covering a robotic surgical manipulator at least in part by a sterile sheet that comprises a substantially rigid frame; and positioning an instrument interface at least in part between a drive plate of the robotic surgical manipulator and a two degree of freedom gimbal assembly of a surgical instrument coupled to the robotic surgical manipulator, the instrument interface being connected to the frame by a diaphragm that allows the instrument interface to move with two rotational degrees of freedom. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising positioning a rotating coupling between a rotary output of the robotic surgical manipulator and a rotary input of the surgical instrument, the coupling being adjacent the instrument interface. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising establishing a rotational seal between the coupling and the diaphragm. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising engaging and aligning the coupling and the rotary input of the surgical instrument with projections. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising engaging and aligning the coupling and the rotary output of the robotic surgical manipulator with projections. 16. The method of claim 11 further comprising transmitting motion of the drive plate to the gimbal assembly through the instrument interface. 17. The method of claim 11 further comprising extending a portion of the drive plate that extends outwardly from a driving surface and beyond the center of motion of the drive plate into openings in the diaphragm and the instrument interface. 18. The method of claim 11 wherein the diaphragm further includes a plurality of openings that receive a plurality of alignment features on the instrument interface. 19. The method of claim 11 wherein the diaphragm is convoluted in a region between the instrument interface and the frame. 