A wafer processing system including a processing chamber, a low pressure pump coupled to the processing chamber for pumping noble and non-noble gases, a valve mechanism coupling a source of noble gas to the processing chamber, an in situ getter pump disposed within the processing chamber which pumps certain non-noble gases during the flow of the noble gas into the chamber, and a processing mechanism for processing a wafer disposed within the processing chamber. Preferably, the in situ getter pump can be operated at a number of different temperatures to preferentially pump different species of gas at those temperatures. A gas analyzer is used to automatically control the temperature of the getter pump to control the species of gasses that are pumped from the chamber. A method for processing a wafer of the present invention includes the steps of placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing the chamber, flowing a noble gas into the chamber while simultaneously pumping the chamber with an external low pressure pump and with an in situ getter pump disposed within the chamber which pumps non-noble gases, and processing the wafer within the chamber while the noble gas continues to flow. The method also preferably includes the steps of monitoring the composition of the gas within the chamber and controlling the temperature of the getter material based upon the analysis of the composition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for pumping a process chamber, comprising sealing a process chamber; pumping said process chamber with an in situ getter pump system operating at a first temperature to pump a first non-noble gas; and pumping said process chamber with said in situ getter pump system operating at a second temperature to pump a second non-noble gas. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first non-noble gas is hydrogen. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second non-noble gas is water vapor. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first non-noble gas is hydrogen, the second non-noble gas is water vapor, the first temperature is about room temperature, and the second temperature is in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 450.degree. C. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the second temperature is in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 400.degree. C. 6. A method for pumping a process chamber, comprising: sealing a process chamber; monitoring a composition of a gas within said process chamber; controlling a temperature of an in situ getter pump system based upon an analysis of said composition; and pumping said process chamber with said in situ getter pump system. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein pumping the process chamber with the in situ getter pump system includes: pumping the process chamber with the in situ getter pump system operating at a first temperature to pump a first non-noble gas; and pumping the process chamber with the in situ getter pump system operating at a second temperature to pump a second non-noble gas. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first non-noble gas is hydrogen. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second non-noble gas is water vapor. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the first non-noble gas is hydrogen, the second non-noble gas is water vapor, the first temperature is about room temperature, and the second temperature is in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 450.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second temperature is in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 400.degree. C. 12. A method for pumping a process chamber, comprising: sealing a process chamber; and pumping said process chamber with an in situ getter pump system having first and second getter modules, the first getter module operating at a first temperature to pump a first non-noble gas and the second getter module operating at a second temperature to pump a second non-noble gas. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first getter module operates at about room temperature to pump hydrogen. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second getter module operates at a temperature in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 450.degree. C. to pump water vapor. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the first getter module includes getter elements comprised of a Zr--Al alloy. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the second getter module includes getter elements comprised of a Zr--V--Fe alloy. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the first getter module includes getter elements comprised of a Zr--Al alloy. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the second getter module includes getter elements comprised of a Zr--V--Fe alloy. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the second getter module operates at a temperature in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 400.degree. C. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the second getter module operates at a temperature in a range of from 300.degree. C. to 400.degree. C. 