An electrostatic chuck 20 for holding a substrate 12 comprises a dielectric 70 having a receiving surface 75 for receiving the substrate thereon. The dielectric 70 comprises a charging electrode 80 for generating electrostatic charge for electrostatically holding the substrate 12 to the receiving surface 75, and a discharge electrode 85 electrically isolated from the charging electrode for removing electrostatic charge accumulated in the chuck 20.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrostatic chuck for holding a substrate, the chuck comprising a dielectric having a receiving surface for receiving the substrate thereon, and the dielectric comprising: (a) a charging electrode for generating electrostatic charge for electrostatically holding the substrate to the receiving surface; and (b) a discharge electrode electrically isolated from the charging electrode for removing electrostatic charge accumulated in the chuck. 2. The electrostatic chuck of claim 1 wherein the discharge electrode comprises exposed contact ends that terminate on the receiving surface and are electrically isolated from the substrate. 3. The electrostatic chuck of claim 2 wherein the charging electrode comprises apertures, and wherein the discharge electrode comprises conductor elements that extend through the apertures and are electrically isolated from the charging electrode, the conductor elements terminating in the exposed contact ends. 4. The electrostatic chuck of claim 2 wherein the exposed contact ends terminate in recessed portions in the receiving surface of the dielectric. 5. The electrostatic chuck of claim 4 wherein the recessed portions comprise grooves that are used to hold a heat transfer fluid for regulating the temperature of the substrate held on the chuck. 6. The electrostatic chuck of claim 1 wherein the dielectric comprises a resistivity of from about 10.sup.8 to about 10.sup.16 .OMEGA.-cm. 7. The electrostatic chuck of claim 1 wherein the discharge electrode comprises a switch for switching the discharge electrode to electrical ground, or to an electrical potential that depletes the residual charge in the chuck. 8. The electrostatic chuck of claim 1 wherein the dielectric comprises an electrical resistance sufficiently low to electrostatically hold the substrate by non-coulombic electrostatic pressure upon application of a voltage to the charging electrode. 9. A method of using the electrostatic chuck of claim 1 comprising the steps of: (a) placing the substrate on the receiving surface of the dielectric and applying a voltage to the charging electrode to electrostatically hold the substrate; (b) terminating the voltage applied to the charging electrode and applying to the discharge electrode an electrical potential for removing or neutralizing residual electrostatic charge in the chuck; and (c) removing the substrate from the receiving surface of the dielectric. 10. A method of using the electrostatic chuck of claim 1 comprising the steps of: (a) placing a substrate on the receiving surface of the dielectric and applying a voltage to the charging electrode to electrostatically hold the substrate; (b) electrically grounding the charging electrode; (c) applying to the discharge electrode an electrical potential for depleting residual electrostatic charge in the chuck; and (d) removing the substrate from the receiving surface of the dielectric. 11. An electrostatic chuck for holding and rapidly releasing a substrate, the chuck comprising: (a) a dielectric having a receiving surface for receiving the substrate, the dielectric comprising an electrical resistance sufficiently low to allow the substrate to be electrostatically held by non-coulombic electrostatic pressure; (b) a charging electrode in the dielectric for generating electrostatic charge for electrostatically holding the substrate to the receiving surface of the dielectric; and (c) a discharge electrode in the dielectric, the discharge electrode comprising conductor elements having exposed contact ends terminating at the receiving surface of the dielectric to provide an electrical pathway for removing or neutralizing residual electrostatic charge accumulated in the dielectric. 12. The electrostatic chuck of claim 11 wherein the contact ends of the conductor elements are electrically isolated from the substrate. 13. The electrostatic chuck of claim 12 wherein the contact ends of the conductor elements terminate in recessed portions in the receiving surface of the dielectric. 14. The electrostatic chuck of claim 13 wherein the recessed portions of the dielectric comprise grooves for holding heat transfer fluid for regulating the temperature of the substrate held on the chuck. 15. The electrostatic chuck of claim 11 wherein the charging electrode comprises apertures, and wherein the conductor elements of the discharge electrode extend through the apertures and are electrically isolated from the charging electrode. 16. The electrostatic chuck of claim 11 further comprising a voltage supply for applying to the discharge electrode an electrical potential that dissipates or neutralizes the residual electrostatic charge in the dielectric. 17. A method of forming an electrostatic chuck comprising the steps of: (a) forming at least two dielectric plates and forming an electrical conductor layer on one of the dielectric plates; (b) joining the dielectric plates to one another so that the electrical conductor layer is enclosed by the dielectric plates to serve as a charging electrode and forming an electrical discharge member having a portion extending through one of the dielectric plates to serve as a discharge electrode; and (c) sintering the dielectric plates, the electrical conductor layer, and the electrical discharge member to form an electrostatic chuck. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein step (a) comprises the steps of: (1) preparing a slurry comprising ceramic particles, liquid carrier, and a binder; (2) applying a layer of the slurry to a support film; and (3) drying the layer of slurry on the support film to form the dielectric plates. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the electrical conductor layer is composed of conducting powder, liquid carrier, and binder. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the conducting powder comprises tungsten, molybdenum, copper, silver, or gold. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein the dielectric plates comprises one or more of aluminum oxide, aluminum nitride, boron nitride, silicon oxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, and titanium oxide. 22. A method of forming an electrostatic chuck comprising the steps of: (a) forming a first electrical conductor layer on a first dielectric to serve as a charging electrode; (b) positioning a second dielectric having holes therethrough over the first electrical conductor layer on the first dielectric; and (c) filling the holes in the second dielectric with electrical conductor material to form one or more conductor elements to serve as a discharging electrode that extends from the electrical conductor layer through the second dielectric and that comprises exposed contact portions on the surface of the second dielectric. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the first and second dielectrics comprise dielectric plates formed by tape casting. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the second dielectric comprises a second electrical conductor layer and wherein the holes in the second dielectric extend through the second electrical conductor layer. 25. A method of forming an electrostatic chuck comprising the steps of: (a) forming a dielectric having a receiving surface for receiving a substrate thereon; (b) forming a charging electrode in the dielectric, and forming an electrical connector connected to the charging electrode, the electrical connector having an exposed portion for receiving charge for electrostatically charging the charging electrode to hold the substrate to the receiving surface of the dielectric; and (c) forming a discharge electrode in the dielectric, the discharge electrode being electrically isolated from the charging electrode and having exposed portions that serve to remove electrostatic charge accumulated in the dielectric. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein step (c) comprises the steps of forming apertures in the charging electrode and extending the exposed portions of the discharge electrode through the apertures. 27. The method of claim 26 comprising the step of terminating the exposed portions of the discharge electrode on the receiving surface of the dielectric so that the exposed portions are electrically isolated from the substrate. 28. The method of claim 27 comprising the steps of forming recessed portions in the receiving surface of the dielectric and locating the exposed portions of the discharge electrode within the recessed portions. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising the step of forming grooves in the dielectric to hold a heat transfer fluid for regulating the temperature of the substrate held on the dielectric, the grooves comprising the recessed portions. 30. The method of claim 25 wherein in step (a) the dielectric is formed by the steps of: (1) preparing a slurry comprising ceramic particles, liquid carrier, and a binder; (2) applying a layer of the slurry to a support film; and (3) drying the layer of slurry on the support film to form the dielectric. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein one or more of the charging electrode and discharge electrode are formed of conducting powder, liquid carrier, and binder. 32. The method of claim 25 wherein the dielectric is formed of one or more of aluminum oxide, aluminum nitride, boron nitride, silicon oxide, silicon carbide, silicon nitride, or titanium oxide. 