The present invention relates to compact palletizers that include a stretch-wrap operation as the pallet is built. A four-sided compaction mechanism compresses the rough-built load to the final pallet size and then the entire layer is released to the pallet. Individual items or group of items are picked and placed onto a layer support device in a loose orientation. The loose orientation enables a much faster palletizing operation because the robotic arm that pick-and-places the item, the items, or the row of items, can travel much faster as it does not have to precisely locate the item, items, or row of items. During the time that a layer is being loosely constructed on the layer support device concurrent wrapping can occur.
Claims We claim: 1. An item handling and stacking system adapted to receive at least one item from an infeed system presented an infeed height, the item handling and stacking system comprising: a frame defining a generally vertical column of space; a layer assembly platform for receiving at least one item to build a layer, the layer assembly platform disposed within the vertical column of space operable between a first position and a second position within the vertical column, the layer assembly platform defining a selectively adjustable assembly platform layer-build height and further operable to receive at least one item at the assembly platform layer-build height, the assembly platform layer-build height being intermediate to the first and second positions, and the layer assembly platform further adapted to independently and selectively reciprocate vertically in the vertical column of space, the layer assembly platform further comprising an apron operable from a first closed position to a second open position, and a compaction mechanism comprising a first x-direction arm and a second, oppositely disposed x-direction arm, and a first y-direction barrier arranged generally perpendicular to the first x-direction arm and cooperating with both arms to define a generally rectilinear space; a pallet-build position disposed within the vertical column of space and positioned under the layer assembly platform; a pick-and-place robot disposed adjacent to the vertical column of space, the robot adapted to transfer the at least one item from the infeed system at the infeed height to a predetermined position on the layer assembly platform at the assembly platform layer-build height; and a stretch wrapping device comprising means for automatic wrap start and wrap cut after wrapping completion, a turntable positioned in the vertical column of space and adapted to selectively rotate, and a wrap dispensing system adjacent to the turntable, the dispensing system being operable to concurrently wrap a plurality of item layers within the vertical column while at least one item is being transferred from the infeed system to the layer assembly platform. 2. The apron of the layer assembly platform of claim 1 further comprising: a flexible apron comprising at least one roller curtain floor operable to selectively index. 3. The layer assembly platform of claim 1 further comprising: a flexible apron comprising at least two roller curtain floors operable to selectively index in a common plane, the first roller curtain floor following a first path and the second roller curtain floor following a second path. 4. The layer assembly platform of claim 1 further comprising: a rigid apron comprising at least one floor panel operable to actuate from a closed position to an open position. 5. The pick-and-place robot of claim 1 further comprising: a gripping element disposed at the end of an arm, the gripping element and arm being operable to pick and place the at least one item from the infeed system and transfer the at least one item to a predetermined location on the layer assembly platform. 6. The gripping element of claim 5 further comprising: a top portion coupled to a distal end of the pick-and-place robot; a rigid perpendicular rear-wall coupled to the top portion; and an oppositely positioned front wall hingeably coupled to the top portion at a proximal end and the front wall further having at least one claw element located at its distal end. 7. The robotic end effector of claim 5 further comprising a wrist mechanism adapted to operate to rotate the at least one item at least 90-degrees from a first orientation to a second orientation. 8. The layer assembly platform of claim 1 wherein: the apron comprises an at least two-axis compaction mechanism operable to position the at least one item on the layer assembly platform from a first loosely placed position to a second, compacted position. 9. The layer assembly platform of claim 1 wherein: the apron comprises a static compaction mechanism adapted to position the at least one item on the layer assembly platform from a first loosely placed position to a second, compacted position. 10. The compaction mechanism of claim 1 further comprising: a compaction device coupled to the first x-direction arm selectively operable to include relative movement toward the center of the assembly platform and retract. 