A robotic vehicle having two or more tracked mobility platforms that are mechanically linked together with a two-dimensional coupling, thereby forming a composite vehicle of increased mobility. The robotic vehicle is operative in hazardous environments and can be capable of semi-submersible operation. The robotic vehicle is capable of remote controlled operation via radio frequency and/or fiber optic communication link to a remote operator control unit. The tracks have a plurality of track-edge scallop cut-outs that allow the tracks to easily grab onto and roll across railroad tracks, especially when crossing the railroad tracks at an oblique angle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vehicle comprising: at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, each of said at least first and second tracked mobility platforms having dual tracks, each track of said dual tracks having a drive motor coupled thereto; a plurality of track-edge scallop cut-outs disposed on one or more of an inside edge and one or more of an outer edge of each track; a two degrees of freedom (2DOF) coupling connecting the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the 2DOF coupling having an unlocked state wherein said unlocked state the 2DOF coupling is operatively arranged to allow out-of-plane motion relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms and substantially prevent in-plane motion relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the 2DOF coupling further having a locked state wherein said locked state said 2DOF coupling is operatively arranged to substantially prevent in-plane and out-of-plane motions relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms; a fiber optic tether connected to at least one of the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the fiber optic tether operatively arranged to provide a first communication link between a vehicle control module mounted on the robotic vehicle and a remotely located operator control unit; and, a radio frequency communications module mounted on the robotic vehicle, the radio frequency communications module operatively arranged to provide a second communication link between the vehicle control module and the remotely located operator control unit. 2. The robotic vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a support mast connected to at least one of the first and second tracked mobility platforms, the support mast having a pan and tilt base. 3. The robotic vehicle of claim 2 further comprising one or more cameras selected from a visible light camera and an infra-red light camera, the one or more cameras mounted on the pan and tilt base. 4. The robotic vehicle of claim 3 further comprising one or more light sources selected from a visible light source and an infra-red light source, the one or more light sources mounted on the pan and tilt base. 5. The robotic vehicle of claim 1 further comprising one or more environmental sensors operatively arranged to sense one or more environmental parameters related to an environment within which the robotic vehicle is operating. 6. The robotic vehicle of claim 5 wherein the one or more environmental sensors comprise one or more sensors selected from a temperature sensor, an oxygen sensor, a methane sensor, a carbon monoxide sensor, and a carbon dioxide sensor. 7. A robotic vehicle comprising: a first and a second tracked mobility platform, each of said first and second tracked mobility platforms having dual tracks, each track of said dual tracks having a drive motor coupled thereto, each of said first and second tracked mobility platforms having a plurality of sealed explosion proof compartments for housing drive motors and electronic components therein; a plurality of track-edge scallop cut-outs disposed on one or more of an inside edge and one or more of an outer edge of each track; a two degrees of freedom (2DOF) coupling connecting the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the 2DOF coupling having an unlocked state wherein said unlocked state the 2DOF coupling is operatively arranged to allow out-of-plane motion relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms and substantially prevent in-plane motion relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the 2DOF coupling further having a locked state wherein said locked state said 2DOF coupling is operatively arranged to substantially prevent in-plane and out-of-plane motions relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms; a support mast connected to at least one of the first and second mobility platforms, the support mast having a pan and tilt base; a forward looking infrared camera mounted on the pan and tilt base; a fiber optic tether connected to at least one of the first and second tracked mobility platforms, the fiber optic tether operatively arranged to provide a first communication link between a vehicle control module mounted on the robotic vehicle and a remotely located operator control unit; and, a radio frequency communications module mounted on the robotic vehicle, the radio frequency communications module operatively arranged to provide a second communication link between the vehicle control module and the remotely located operator control unit. 8. The robotic vehicle of claim 7 further comprising a visible light source and a visible light imaging camera, the light source and the imaging camera mounted on the pan and tilt base. 9. The robotic vehicle of claim 7 further comprising a speaker and a microphone mounted on the robotic vehicle, the speaker and the microphone operatively arranged to provide audible communication between an operator and an environment within which the robotic vehicle is operating. 10. The robotic vehicle of claim 7 further comprising one or more environmental sensors mounted to the robotic vehicle, the one or more environmental sensors operatively arranged to sense one or more environmental parameters related to an environment within which the robotic vehicle is operating. 11. The robotic vehicle of claim 10 wherein the one or more environmental sensors comprise one or more environmental sensors selected from a temperature sensor, an oxygen sensor, a methane sensor, a carbon monoxide sensor and a carbon dioxide sensor. 12. The robotic vehicle of claim 7 wherein each track comprises a plurality of horizontal blade type lugs in combination with the plurality of one or more track-edge scallop cut-outs. 13. The robotic vehicle of claim 12, wherein the one or more track-edge scallop cut-outs have a minimum radius of curvature, R.sub.cutout, of the semi-circular shape is equal to or less than 1/2 of a distance, L, between a pair of adjacent horizontal blade type lugs. 14. The robotic vehicle of claim 12, wherein the one or more track-edge scallop cut-outs have a shape that is defined by an arc having a radius of curvature, R.sub.cutout, that is greater than or equal to 1/2 of a distance, L, between a pair of adjacent horizontal blade type lugs; and wherein said arc has an origin of its radius of curvature; wherein said origin has a position that lies outside of the track. 15. The robotic vehicle of claim 7 further comprising an operator control unit, the operator control unit including a computer integrated into a power and communications unit. 16. The robotic vehicle of claim 7 wherein the vehicle control module has an auto recover mode, the auto-recover mode operatively arranged to control the robotic vehicle through one or more auto-recover maneuvers, in the event of a loss of a communications channel. 17. The robotic vehicle of claim 7, wherein the one or more track-edge scallop cut-outs have a shape that is defined by a semi-circle having a radius of curvature, R.sub.cutout, that ranges from 1 to 2 inches. 18. A robotic vehicle comprising: a first and a second tracked mobility platform, each of said first and second tracked mobility platforms having dual tracks, each track of said dual tracks having a drive motor coupled thereto, each of said first and second tracked mobility platforms having a plurality of sealed explosion proof compartments for housing drive motors and electronic components therein; a plurality of track-edge scallop cut-outs disposed on one or more of an inside edge and one or more of an outer edge of each track; a two degrees of freedom (2DOF) coupling connecting the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the 2DOF coupling having an unlocked state wherein said unlocked state the 2DOF coupling is operatively arranged to allow out-of-plane motion relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms and substantially prevent in-plane motion relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms, the 2DOF coupling further having a locked state wherein said locked state said 2DOF coupling is operatively arranged to substantially prevent in-plane and out-of-plane motions relative to and between the at least first and second tracked mobility platforms; a support mast connected to at least one of the first and second mobility platforms, the support mast having a pan and tilt base; a forward looking infrared camera mounted on the pan and tilt base; a fiber optic tether connected to at least one of the first and second tracked mobility platforms, the fiber optic tether operatively arranged to provide a first communication link between a vehicle control module mounted on the robotic vehicle and a remotely located operator control unit; and, a radio frequency communications module mounted on the robotic vehicle, the radio frequency communications module operatively arranged to provide a second communication link between the vehicle control module and the remotely located operator control unit; and wherein the one or more track-edge scallop cut-outs have a shape that is defined by an arc having a radius of curvature, R.sub.cutout, that is greater than or equal to 1/2 of a distance, L, between a pair of adjacent horizontal blade type lugs; and wherein said arc has an origin of its radius of curvature; wherein said origin has a position that lies outside of the track. 