Fluid dispensing apparatus having a loading/stripping plate movable by vertical shafts connected thereto and having a pair of pins on its interior surface for engagement with slots formed on the upper edges of a pipette tray carrier. A standard pipette tip box, with pipette tips therein, is positioned within the tray carrier. When the dispensing apparatus is moved into position on a table about the tray carrier, the loading/stripping plate moves downwardly to engage the tray carrier. The loading/stripping plate is then moved upwardly causing the pipette tips to engage corresponding dispenser cylinders supported in a cylinder plate connected to the shafts. After the pipette tips are loaded to the cylinders, the stripping plate moves downwardly, stripping the pipette tips from the pipette box and returning the tray carrier to the table. The stripper plate includes box strippers to push the box away from the pipette tips that are fixed to the cylinders during the loading cycle and a progressively thicker recess on its bottom surface which allows the pipette tips to be progressively stripped from the cylinders during the unloading cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for dispensing predetermined amounts of liquid into receptacles comprising: first and second sets of vertically extending shafts; a first plate member coupled to said first and second set of shafts; actuator means positioned on said first plate member; a pipette tip box for supporting a plurality of pipette tips; a carrier tray for supporting said tip box and having means for receiving engagement members; a loading/stripping plate member having a bottom surface movable along said second set of shafts, said loading/stripping plate member having said engagement members formed thereon for engaging said means for receiving engagement members; a second plate member supporting a plurality of dispensing cylinders, said second plate member being fixedly connected to said first set of shafts; and means to energize said actuator means whereby said loading/stripping plate member is moved upwardly by said second set of vertically extending shafts in a manner such that each pipette tip is positioned into sealing engagement with an adjacent vertically aligned dispensing cylinder. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator means is energized in a manner whereby said loading/stripping plate member is moved in the downward direction by said second set of vertically extending shafts causing each pipette tip to be pushed off the corresponding cylinder to which it is sealed. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a third plate member movable by said second set of vertically extending shafts having a plurality of piston members supported therein, each of said piston members being positioned for upward or downward movement within one of said adjacent and vertically aligned dispensing cylinders. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further including actuator means for moving said third plate member in an upwards direction whereby said liquid is drawn into said pipette tips. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said actuator means moves said third plate member in a downwards direction whereby said liquid is dispensed into said receptacles. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said actuator means is energized in a manner whereby said loading/stripping plate member is moved downwardly by said second set of vertically extending shafts such that said pipette tip box is forced away from the pipette tips sealed to said cylinders. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said loading/stripping plate member comprises means on said bottom surface for contacting the top surface of the pipette tip box as said loading/stripping plate member moves downwardly, said contacting means forcing said pipette tip box away from said pipette tips sealed to said cylinders. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said loading/stripping plate member comprises a substantially planar shape having a predetermined length and width, edge portions and a center portion, said loading/stripping plate member having a plurality of apertures formed therein for receiving said dispensing cylinders, the thickness of said loading/stripping member varying along a portion of said predetermined length. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the thickness of said loading/stripping member decreases stepwise from the edge portions to the center portion of said loading/stripping plate member. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further including means for enabling said loading/stripping plate member to initially engage said means for receiving engagement members. 