To provide versatile radioactive implants and methods of radiation therapy, plating methods such sputtering, as are used to coat single elements such as microspheres, wires and ribbons with radioactive metals, protective layers and identification layers. The resulting solid, radioactive, multilayered seamless elements are implanted individually or combined in intercavity applicators, with fabrics and in ribbons. Because they have selected half-lives and intensities, they provide flexibility in treatment, permitting low intensity or high intensity treatment. using temporary or permanent implants and implants with high intensity or low intensity or controured intensity to permit different therapies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least two layers concentric with the central sphere; said layer section being in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere enclosing first material having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; at least a first layer of said two layers enclosing said first material and containing a second material that reacts chemically with said first material; and at least a second layer containing a third material that forms a diffusion barrier to said first material. 2. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which said layer section includes a spherical diffusion barrier layer, a third spherical layer designed to enhance diagnositc imaging and a fourth spherical protective layer enclosing at least the the first, second and third layers of said layer section. 3. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere enclosing first material having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; said at least one layer including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV, and with a half-life of less than 130 days, wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere is a low energy permanent multilayered radioactive microsphere for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 4. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere enclosing first material having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein the one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed is a high energy permanent multilayered radioactive microsphere for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 5. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere enclosing first material having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; at least one of said layers including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein the one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed is a high energy permanent multilayered radioactive microsphere for permanent interstitial implanatation into human tumor tissues. 6. A ribbon-multilayer radioactive unit having a plurality of substrate radioactive microspheres with outer diameters between 0.04 and 0.8 millimeters attached to a ribbon; a first material in said unit being radioactive; at least one layer of a second material enclosing said first material; said second material being a type that reacts with said first material; and a third material enclosing said first material and forming a diffusion barrier. 7. A ribbon-multilayer radioactive unit according to claim 6, in which both the ribbon and the substrate microspheres have an outer coat of the same material. 8. A multilayered seamless radioactive wire, comprising: a central wire section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer coaxial with the central wire section and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central wire section; said wire having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; a first material in said layer section being radioactive; at least one layer of a second material enclosing said second material; said second material being a type that reacts with said first material; and a third material enclosing said first material and forming a diffusion barrier. 9. A one-piece seamless multilayered radioactive ocular applicator, comprising: a substrate section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer in intimate contact with a surface of the substrate section; said applicator having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity in which radioactive multilayers in the layer section having a thickness no greater than 0.5 millimeters; a first material in said unit being radioactive; at least one layer of a second material enclosing said first material; said second material being a type that reacts with saif first material; and a third material enclosing said first material and forming a diffusion barrier. 10. A radioactive applicator comprising: surgical fabric containing multiple evenly-spaced multilayer radioactive microspheres; each of said microspheres being a one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed having a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; a first material in said unit being radioactive; at least one layer of a second material enclosing said first material; said second material being a type that reacts with saif first material; and a third material enclosing said first material and forming a diffusion barrier. 11. A radioactive applicator according to claim 10, in which said surgical fabric is tissue absorbable. 12. A ribbon-multilayer radioactive unit comprising: a ribbon; a plurality of substrate radioactive microspheres with outer diameters between 0.04 and 0.8 millimeters attached to said ribbon; said microspheres including a selected one of a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV and a half-life of less than 130 days; and a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days. 13. A multilayered seamless radioactive wire, comprising: a central wire section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer coaxial with the central wire section and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central wire section; said wire having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV, and with a half-life of less than 130 days, wherein includes the a low energy permanent radioactive material for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues; including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein the includes a high energy permanent radioactive material for permanent interstitial. implanatation into human tumor tissues. 14. A one-piece seamless multilayered radioactive ocular applicator, comprising: a substrate section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer in intimate contact with a surface of the substrate section; said applicator having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity in which radioactive multilayers in the layer section having a thickness no greater than 0.5 millimeters; including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV, and with a half-life of less than 130 days, wherein includes the a low energy permanent radioactive material for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues; including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein the includes a high energy permanent radioactive material for permanent interstitial implanatation into human tumor tissues. 15. A radioactive applicator comprising; surgical fabric containing multiple evenly-spaced multilayer radioactive microspheres; each of said microspheres being a one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed having a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV, and with a half-life of less than 130 days, wherein includes the a low energy permanent radioactive material for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues; including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein the includes a high energy permanent radioactive material for permanent interstitial implanatation into human tumor tissues. 16. A radioactive applicator according to claim 15, in which said surgical fabric is tissue absorbable. 