A system and method of answering incoming calls are disclosed in which, if the resource (18)(19) desired by the caller is not then available, a robot controller (14) will inform the caller when a call back to the caller can be made. The callback time can be suggested by the robot controller (14) or the caller can request a specific callback time. The robot controller (14) ascertains and verifies the caller's call back identity and stores the number of the identity in a callback queue (11) along with such other pertinent information as the callback time, the caller's name and the required resource. At the appropriate time, the robot controller (14) removes the information from the callback queue (11), places the call and connects the desired resource (18)(19).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said system comprising: means for robotically ascertaining a digitally encoded call back identity of incoming calls; means for disconnecting said incoming calls .[.after said call back identity has been ascertained.]. ; .[.and.]. means operating from said digitally encoded call back identity for establishing a call back connection to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at a later period of time.[...]. .Iadd.; means for robotically ascertaining a digitally encoded call back time for each said ascertained call back identity; and means for robotically communicating said ascertained call back time to each said incoming call prior to enabling said disconnecting means with respect to said incoming calls..Iaddend. 2. The system set forth in claim 1 wherein said answering system includes a plurality of resources, any one of which can service said incoming calling connections; and wherein said robotically ascertaining means is responsive to an unavailability of said resources to service said incoming calls. .[. 3. The system set forth in claim 1 further including means for robotically ascertaining a digitally encoded call back time for each said ascertained call back identity, and means for robotically communicating said ascertained call back time to each said incoming call prior to enabling said disconnecting means with respect to said incoming calls..]. 4. The system set forth in claim .[.3.]. .Iadd.1 .Iaddend.wherein said answering system includes a plurality of resources, any one of which can service said incoming calling connections; and wherein said call back time ascertaining means includes means for predictively determining the prospective availability of said resources. 5. The system set forth in claim .[.3.]. .Iadd.1 .Iaddend.further including a queue of ascertained call back identities, and means for removing said call back identities from said queue at said ascertained call back time. 6. The system set forth in claim .[.3.]. .Iadd.1 .Iaddend.wherein said call back time ascertaining means further includes means for determining the statistical probability that a resource will be available when said call is completed to said ascertained call back identity. 7. The system set forth in claim 1 further including call back time ascertaining means for exchanging information over said telephone line, said information being in human understandable form from said system and in digitally encoded form to said system. 8. The system set forth in claim 1 wherein said call back identity ascertaining means includes means for receiving ANI information from said incoming calls. 9. A robot controller responsive to incoming calls from a plurality of calling telephone facilities comprising: a central processing unit for controlling said robot controller; means controlled by said processing unit for ascertaining a digitally encoded call back time for selected calling telephone facilities.[.;.]. .Iadd., said ascertained call-back time taking into consideration the prospective availability of said controller.Iaddend.; and means operating from said digitally encoded call back time for establishing a call back connection to certain ones of said selected calling telephone facilities at a later period of time. 10. The robot controller of claim 9 wherein said call back establishing means includes: a callback queue for storing callback information for said certain ones of said calling telephone facilities; and means for removing from said queue stored call back information at said later period of time. 11. The robot controller of claim 9 wherein said call back time ascertaining means includes: means for interrogating said selected calling telephone facilities; and means for monitoring signals returned from said calling telephone facilities in response to said interrogation. 12. The robot controller of claim 9 wherein said incoming calls require service of call servicing resources; and wherein said call back time is ascertained when said call servicing communication resources are unavailable to handle said telephone facility; and wherein said call back time ascertaining means includes: means for interrogating said selected calling telephone facility to establish a call back time; means for predictively determining the availability of one of said call servicing communication resources; and means controlled jointly by said interrogating means and by said predictively determining means for controlling said time ascertaining means. 13. The robot controller of claim 9 wherein said means for establishing a call back connection further comprises: means for establishing said call back to said selected calling telephone facility upon the statistical probability that a resource will be available to handle said established call when said call is completed to said original calling facility. 14. A system for scheduling the subsequent transfer of information from calls incoming to a communication facility from calling communication facilities, said system comprising: means for temporarily establishing communication connection to any said calling communication facility; means for robotically establishing the call back identity of said calling communication facility; means for robotically establishing a call back time with respect to said identified calling communication facility; means for storing said established call back identity and said established call back time; and means for disconnecting said temporary communication connection and wherein said call back time establishing means includes: means for interchanging data over said temporarily established communication connection to arrive at a mutually acceptable call back time. 15. The system set forth in claim 14 further comprising: means for communicating said established call back time over said established communication connection prior to disconnecting said communication connection. 16. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said call back identity means includes: means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection. 17. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said call back identity means includes: means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility separate from said temporarily established communication connection. 18. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said robotically establishing means includes: means for sending requests over said temporarily established communication connection, and wherein said call back identity means includes: means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection in response to requests from said robotic establishing means. 19. The system set forth in claim 18 wherein said robotic request sending means includes: means for converting back and forth between digital data and human understandable form. 20. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said called communication facility has one or more call servicing resources periodically available for connection to a communication line, and wherein said data interchanging means includes: means for predictively determining the availability of a given resource at said called communication facility. 21. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said call back time is established by signals transmitted between said facilities. 22. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said call back time is generated internal to said system and communicated by said robotic establishing means over said temporarily established communication connection. 23. The system set forth in claim 22 wherein said robotic establishing means includes: means for converting back and forth between digital data and human understandable form. 24. The system set forth in claim 14 wherein said storing means includes a queue arranged to store call back identities in association with call back times. 25. The system set forth in claim 24 wherein said storing means further includes: means for removing said call back identities at said associated call back time. 26. The system set forth in claim 24 wherein said call back identification means further includes: means for also obtaining over said temporarily established connection other information pertinent to said temporary connection; and means for also storing said other information in said queue in association with said call back time. 27. .[.The.]. .Iadd.A .Iaddend.method of scheduling and subsequent transfer of information from calls incoming to a called communication facility from calling communication facilities, said method comprising the steps of: temporarily establishing a communication connection to any said calling communication facility; .Iadd.robotically establishing the call back identity of said calling communication facility;.Iaddend. robotically establishing a call back time with respect to said identified calling communication line; .[.string.]. .Iadd.storing .Iaddend.said established call back identity and said established call back time; and disconnecting said temporary communication connection and wherein said call back time establishing step includes the step of: interchanging data over said temporarily established communication connection to arrive at a mutually acceptable call back time. 28. The method set forth in claim 27 further comprising the step of: communicating said established call back time over said established communication connection prior to disconnecting said communication connection. 29. The method set forth in claim 27 wherein said call back identity step includes the step of: accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection. 30. The method set forth in claim 27 wherein said call back identity step includes the step of: accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility separated from said temporarily established communication connection. 31. The method set forth in claim 27 wherein said robotically establishing step includes the step of: sending requests over said temporarily established communication connection, and wherein said call back identity step includes the step of: accepting signals communicated to said communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection in response to requests from said robotic establishing means. 32. The method set forth in claim 31 wherein said robotic request sending step includes the step of: converting back and forth between digital data and human understandable form. 33. The method set forth in claim 27 wherein said called communication facility has one or more call completion resources periodically available for connection to a calling communication facility, and wherein said data interchanging step includes the step of: predictively determining the availability of a given resource at said called communication facility. 34. The method set forth in claim 27 wherein said call back time is established by signals transmitted over said temporarily established communication connection to said called communication facility. 35. The method set forth in claim 27 wherein said call back time is generated within said called facility and communicated by said robotic establishing step over said temporarily established communication connection. 36. The method set forth in claim 35 wherein said robotic establishing step includes the step of: converting back and forth between digital data and human understandable form. 37. The method set forth in claim 36 wherein said storing step includes a queue arranged to store call back identities in association with call back times. 38. The method set forth in claim 37 wherein said storing means further includes: means for removing said call back identities at said associated call back time. 39. The method set forth in claim 37 wherein said call back identification step further includes the steps of: obtaining over said temporarily established connection other information pertinent to said temporary connection; and storing said other information in said queue in association with said call back time. 40. A method of answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said method comprising the steps of: robotically ascertaining the call back identity of incoming calls; disconnecting said incoming call connection from said selected calling telephones after ascertaining said call back identity; establishing a call back connection to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at a later period of time ascertaining the call back time for each said ascertained call back identity; and robotically communicating said ascertained call back time to each said ascertained call back identity prior to enabling said disconnecting step with respect to said selected calls. 41. The method set forth in claim 40 wherein said incoming calls are serviced by any one of a plurality of resources, and wherein said robotically ascertaining step is responsive to an unavailability of said resources to service said incoming calls. 42. The method set forth in claim 41 further including the steps of: ascertaining the call back time for each said ascertained call back identity; and robotically communicating said ascertained call back time to each said ascertained call back identity prior to enabling said disconnecting step with respect to said selected calls. 43. The method set forth in claim 40 wherein said call back ascertaining step includes the step of predictively determining the prospective availability of said resources. 44. The method set forth in claim 40 wherein said call back ascertaining step includes the step of: exchanging information over said telephone line with respect to said identified calling line. 45. The method set forth in claim 40 wherein said call back time establishing step further includes the step of: establishing said call back to said ascertained call back identity upon the statistical probability that a resource will be available when said call is completed to said ascertained call back identity. 46. A robot call management system for use with calls incoming to a called communication facility from a calling communication facility, said system comprising: means for temporarily establishing a communication connection to any said calling communication line; means for determining at any time the current availability and the subsequent availability of the call completion resources at said called communication facility; and means responsive to a determined current unavailability of said call completion resources for robotically establishing a call back time with respect to said calling communication facility, said call back time predicted from said determined subsequent availability of said call completion resources.[.; and means for communicating said call back time over said temporarily established connection.]. . 47. The system set forth in claim 46 further comprising: means for robotically ascertaining the call back identity of said calling connection; means for storing said established call back identity and said established call back time; and means for disconnecting said temporary communication connection. 48. The system set forth in claim 47 wherein said call back identity ascertaining means includes: means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection. 49. The system set forth in claim 48 wherein said call back identity means includes: means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility separate from said temporarily established communication connection. 50. The system set forth in claim 46 wherein said robotically establishing means includes: means for sending requests over said temporarily established communication connection; and means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection in response to said requests. 51. The system set forth in claim 50 wherein said robotic request sending means includes: means for converting back and forth between digital data and human understandable form. 52. The system set forth in claim 46 wherein said call back time establishing means includes: means for interchanging data over said temporarily established communication connection to arrive at a mutually acceptable call back time. 53. A system for processing calls incoming to a called communication facility from calling communication facilities, said system comprising: means for temporarily establishing a communication connection to any said calling communication facility; means for robotically establishing a digitally encoded call back identity of said calling communication facility; means for .[.communication.]. .Iadd.communicating .Iaddend.said established digitally encoded call back identity to .[.another.]. .Iadd.a remote .Iaddend.communication facility; means for robotically establishing a digitally encoded call back time with respect to said identified calling communication line; and means for .[.communication.]. .Iadd.communicating .Iaddend.said established digitally encoded call back time to said .[.other.]. .Iadd.remote .Iaddend.communication facility in conjunction with said established call back identity. 54. The system set forth in claim .[.51.]. .Iadd.53 .Iaddend.further comprising: means for communicating said established digitally encoded call back time over said established communication connection prior to disconnecting said communication connection. 55. The system set forth in claim 54 wherein said call back identity means includes: means for accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection. 56. A method of processing calls incoming to a called communication facility from calling communication facilities, said method comprising the steps of: temporarily establishing a .[.digitally encoded call back identity of.]. .Iadd.communication connection to any .Iaddend.said calling communication facility; .Iadd.robotically establishing a digitally encoded call back identity of said calling communication facility;.Iaddend. storing said established digitally encoded call back identity; .[.communication.]. .Iadd.communicating .Iaddend.said stored call back identity to .[.another.]. .Iadd.a remote .Iaddend.communication facility; robotically establishing a digitally encoded call back time with respect to said identified calling communication facility; storing said digitally encoded call back time in conjunction with said call back identity; and communicating said stored digitally encoded call back time to said .[.other.]. .Iadd.remote .Iaddend.communication facility in conjunction with said call back identity. 57. The method set forth in claim 56 further comprising the step of: communicating said established call back time over said established communication connection prior to disconnecting said communication connection. 58. The method set forth in claim 57 wherein said call back identity step includes the step of: accepting signals communicated to said called communication facility over said temporarily established communication connection. 59. A system for answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said system comprising: means for robotically ascertaining the call back identity of incoming calls; means for disconnecting said incoming calls after said call back identity has been ascertained; and means for establishing a call back connection to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at a later period of time; means for ascertaining the call back time for each said ascertained call back identity; means for robotically communicating said ascertained call back time of each said incoming call prior to enabling said disconnecting means with respect to said incoming calls; and wherein said call back time ascertaining means includes means for .[.predictive.]. .Iadd.predictively .Iaddend.determining the prospective availability of .[.said.]. .Iadd.call back .Iaddend.call back resources. 60. A system for answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said system comprising: means for robotically ascertaining the call back identity of incoming calls; means for disconnecting said incoming calls after said call back identity has been ascertained; and means for establishing a call back connection to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at a later period of time; means for ascertaining the call back time for each said ascertained call back identity; means for robotically communicating said ascertained call back time to each said incoming call prior to enabling said disconnecting means with respect to said incoming calls; and further including: a queue of ascertained call back identities, and means for removing said call back identities from said queue at said ascertained call back time. 61. A system for answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said system comprising: means for robotically ascertaining the call back identity of incoming calls; means for .[.disconnecting.]. .Iadd.interrupting .Iaddend.said incoming calls after said call back identity has been ascertained; means for .[.establishing.]. .Iadd.re-establishing .Iaddend.a .[.call-back.]. .Iadd.communication .Iaddend.connection to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at a later period of time; means for ascertaining the call back time for each said ascertained call back identity; means for robotically communicating said ascertained call back time to each said incoming call prior to enabling said .[.disconnecting.]. .Iadd.interrupting .Iaddend.means with respect to said incoming calls; and wherein said call back time ascertaining means further includes: means for determining the statistical probability that a resource will be available when said call is .[.completed.]. .Iadd.re-established .Iaddend.to said ascertained call back identity. 62. A system for answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said system comprising.Iadd.: means for ascertaining a prospective answer availability for particular incoming calls;.Iaddend. means for robotically ascertaining the call back identity of .Iadd.any .Iaddend.incoming .[.calls.]. .Iadd.call where the ascertained answer availability is not immediate; means for predictively determining when a call back resource may be available where said ascertained answer availability is not immediate;.Iaddend. means for .[.disconnecting.]. .Iadd.discontinuing bidirectional communication with .Iaddend.said incoming calls after said call back identity has been ascertained; means for .[.establishing.]. .Iadd.re-establishing .Iaddend.a .[.call back.]. .Iadd.bidirectional communication .Iaddend.connection to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at a later period of time .Iadd.according to said predicted call back resource availability.Iaddend.; and wherein said call back identity ascertaining means further includes: means for receiving ANI information from said incoming calls. 63. A robot controller responsive to incoming calls from a plurality of calling telephone facilities comprising: a central processing unit for controlling said robot controller; means controlled by said processing unit for ascertaining a call back time for selected calling telephone facilities; means for establishing a .[.call back.]. .Iadd.communication .Iaddend.connection to certain ones of said selected calling telephone facilities at a later period of time; wherein said .[.call back.]. .Iadd.communication connection .Iaddend.establishing means includes: .[.a call back queue for storing call back information for said certain ones of said calling telephone facilities; and means for removing from said queue stored call back information at said later period of time.]. .Iadd.means for determining for each calling facility whether said call back time should be the earliest time available or whether said call back time should be a scheduled call back time without interrogating said calling facility..Iaddend. 64. A robot controller responsive to incoming calls from a plurality of calling telephone facilities comprising: a central processing unit for controlling said robot controller; means controlled by said processing unit for ascertaining a call back time for selected calling telephone facilities; .Iadd.said call-back time dependent at least in part upon statistical data; means for establishing a call back connection to certain ones of said selected calling telephone facilities at a later period of time; wherein said call back time ascertaining means includes:.Iaddend. means for interrogating said selected calling telephone facilities; and means for monitoring signals returned from said calling telephone facilities in response to said interrogation. 65. A robot controller responsive to incoming calls from a plurality of calling telephone facilities comprising: a central processing unit for controlling said robot controller; means controlled by said processing unit for ascertaining a call back time for selected calling telephone facilities; means for establishing a call back connection to certain ones of said selected calling telephone facilities at a later period of time; wherein said incoming calls require service of call servicing resources; wherein said call back time is ascertained when said call servicing communication resources are unavailable to handle said telephone facility; and wherein said call back time ascertaining means includes: means for interrogating said selected calling telephone facility to establish a call back time; means for predictively determining the availability of one of said call servicing communication resources; and means controlled jointly by said interrogating means and by said predictively determining means for controlling said time ascertaining means. 66. A robot controller responsive to incoming calls from a plurality of calling telephone facilities comprising: a central processing unit for controlling said robot controller; means controlled by said processing unit for ascertaining a call back time for selected calling telephone facilities; means for establishing a call back connection to certain ones of said selected calling telephone facilities at a later period of time; wherein said means for establishing a call back connection further comprises: means for establishing said call back to said selected calling telephone facility upon the statistical probability that a resource will be available to handle said established call when said call is completed to said original calling facility. .Iadd. 67. The system set forth in claim 46 further comprising: means for communicating said call back time over said temporarily established connection..Iaddend..Iadd. 68. A system for answering incoming calls on a plurality of telephone lines, said system comprising: means for robotically ascertaining a digitally encoded call back identity of incoming calls; means operative in conjunction with statistical data for determining call-back times for selected ones of said incoming calls; and means operating from said digitally encoded call back identity for establishing subsequent communication to said ascertained identities of said incoming calls at one of said determined call-back times..Iaddend..Iadd. 69. The system set forth in claim 68 wherein said answering system includes a plurality of resources, any one of which can service said incoming calling connections; and wherein said call-back time determining means is responsive to an unavailability of said resources to service said incoming calls..Iaddend..Iadd. 70. The system set forth in claim 68 further including: means for robotically communicating one of said determined call-back times to each said incoming call prior to enabling said disconnecting means with respect to said incoming calls..Iaddend. 