Lightweight part retention apparatus is arranged on a removal tool plate. A low pressure air supply is supplied to the apparatus to induce an area of reduced pressure in a channel formed in a passage therein, the reduced pressure being formed by a jet pump action within the channel. The reduced pressure draws a part to be removed from a mold or the like into the apparatus and retains it therein until a separate device removes it and/or the air supply is interrupted. Due to the relatively low mass of the retention apparatus, the tool plate and retention apparatus, with the molded part retained therein, can then be rapidly withdrawn from the open mold to permit early closing of the mold so that a new molding cycle may begin.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of removing a part from a mold comprising the steps of: (i) opening a mold containing at least one part to be removed, said part being on a mold core; (ii) moving a removal tool plate with at least one part retention apparatus mounted thereon into said mold such that said part retention apparatus is adjacent to and aligned with a respective said mold core; (iii) ejecting said part from said mold core such that at least a portion of said part enters said part retention apparatus; (iv) supplying pressurized air to said at least one part retention apparatus to induce at least one area of reduced pressure between said part and said apparatus, said area drawing said part into said apparatus and retaining said part therein; (v) moving said removal tool plate out of said mold to a part unloading position and closing said mold; (vi) removing said at least one part from said apparatus; and (vii) repeating steps (i) through (vi) for each injection operation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said supply of pressurized air in step (iv) is maintained at least in steps (i), (ii), (iii) and (v) to enhance cooling of each said at least one part retention apparatus. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein step (ii) is commenced prior to completion of step (i). 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said mold contains a plurality of parts to be removed and a corresponding plurality of mold cores. 5. A part retention apparatus comprising: a body including at least one passage extending through said body and said passage including an inner surface, at least a portion of which is complementary in shape to a part to be retained; and at least one channel formed in the inner surface of said passage, said channel comprising a converging port extending from a first end of said at least one passage at which said part is received and a diverging port connected to said converging port and extending to a second end of said passage opposite said first end and said at least one channel further comprising at least one nozzle operable to inject air supplied thereto into said diverging port wherein, upon entry of a part into said at least one passage, an area of reduced pressure is formed in said channel about the connection between said converging port and said diverging port by said injected air and said area of reduced pressure acts to draw said part into said passage and to retain said part therein. 6. A part retention apparatus according to claim 5 further comprising a diffuser closing said second end of said at least one passage and operable to redirect air exiting said diverging port of said at least one channel to a substantially lateral direction relative to said passage. 7. A part retention apparatus according to claim 5 further comprising an air inlet to receive a supply of pressurized air and to provide said pressurized air to each said at least one nozzle. 8. A part retention apparatus according to claim 7 wherein air received at said air inlet is distributed to each said at least one nozzle through a passage in said body. 9. A part retention apparatus according to claim 6 comprising at least three channels equi-spaced about said passage and each said channel includes at least one nozzle. 10. A part retention apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said body is formed from lightweight plastic material. 11. A part retention apparatus according to claim 10 wherein at least the portion of said lightweight plastic which contacts said part is plated with a metal. 12. A part retention apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said body is formed from aluminium. 13. A part retention apparatus according to claim 5 including at least two passages, each of said at least two passages including at least one said channel and being operable to retain a respective part. 14. A part removal system for a molding machine comprising: a removal tool plate; at least one part retention apparatus mounted to said removal tool plate and comprising a body including at least one passage extending through said body and said passage including an inner surface, at least a portion of which is complementary in shape to a part to be retained and at least one channel formed in the inner surface of said passage, said channel comprising a converging port extending from a first end of said at least one passage at which said part is received and a diverging port connected to said converging port and extending to a second end of said passage opposite said first end and said at least one channel farther comprising at least one nozzle operable to inject air supplied thereto into said diverging port wherein, upon entry of a part into said at least one passage, an area of reduced pressure is formed in said channel about the connection between said converging port and said diverging port by said injected air and said area of reduced pressure acts to draw said part into said passage and to retain said part therein; means to move said removal tool plate into and out of an open mold; means to supply said pressurized air to said at least one part retention apparatus to draw in and maintain a part therein; and means to remove a part from said retention apparatus when said removal tool plate is out of said mold. 15. A part removal system according to claim 14 including a plurality of said part retention apparatus mounted on said removal tool plate in an array corresponding to cores in said mold. 16. A part removal system according to claim 15 further comprising a distribution manifold and wherein said means to supply pressurized air supplies is operably connected to said manifold and said manifold distributes said pressurized air to each said part retention apparatus. 17. A part removal system according to claim 15 wherein said portion of said passage in each said part retention apparatus has the same shape. 18. A part removal system according to claim 14 wherein said means to move said removal tool plate into and out of an open mold comprises a robotic arm. 