A hidden storage system incorporated in the bed of a vehicle without altering the bed's external appearance or various contours thereof, and without revealing the storage system by assembly of modules containing various individual components. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close fender/side panel sections of the bed, either upwardly, downwardly or sideways. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage system may incorporated into the bed of various side panel configurations without detracting from the appearance of the side panels configurations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating a modified conventional truck bed with a hidden storage area having a predetermined height, located entirely within the modified bed and intermediate modified side panels defining a width of the modified bed, without increasing the external width or height and without altering the external appearance of the side panels of the modified bed, when compared to that of a substantially identical conventional truck bed without any hidden storage area, comprising: assembling components to form a floor assembly module, a bulkhead assembly module, a tailgate assembly module, two vertically extending structural support assembly modules, and two side storage/panel assembly modules, the assembling of the components into modules to include hinging at least one section of at least one side panel at least one of the side storage/panel assembly modules so as to move outwardly, assembling the modules together so that the bulkhead assembly module is mounted to the floor assembly module, then the two structural support assembly modules are mounted to at least the floor assembly module, then the two side storage/panel assembly modules are mounted to the two structural support assembly modules, and then the tailgate assembly module is mounted to the floor assembly module to produce the modified bed with a hidden storage area. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein assembling the components into modules additionally includes providing a storage box having an opening adjacent the at least one hinged section of the side panel. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein assembling the components into modules additionally includes providing the storage box with means forming at least one shelf/compartment. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein assembling the components into modules additionally includes providing an unexposed mechanism for at least releasably maintaining the hinged section of the side panel closed. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the floor assembly is assembled from components including a plurality of collapsible support members extending thereacross and having collapsible sections. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said two side storage/panel assemblies are assembled from components having openings therein into which ends of the collapsible sections of the support members extend. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein each of the two side storage/panel assemblies is assembled from components including at least one hinged side panel section. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the two side storage/panel assemblies is assembled from components including a plurality of hinged side panel sections, said plurality of hinged side panel sections being assembled from components to enable movement of at least one of the side panel sections in an upward, downward or sideways direction. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the two side storage/panel assemblies is assembled from components including a plurality of hinged side panel sections having ends which extend horizontally or vertically along a length of the side panel. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the two side storage/panel assembly module is assembled from components including a storage box having an opening and one hinged side panel section adjacent said opening in the storage box and extending at least a length of nearly a full length of said one of said side storage/panel assembly modules. 11. The method of claim 1, additionally including manufacturing the components of the modules either individually or in modules containing a plurality of the individual components. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the side storage/panel assembly modules are formed with contoured side panels. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the two side storage/panel assembly modules are each formed of a storage box module and a side panel module having hinged section extending an entire length of side panel module. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the two vertically extending structural support assembly modules is carried out by selection from the group consisting of a pair of support post assemblies adapted to be mounted to said floor module, a pair of interior side wall modules adapted to be mounted to at least said floor module, and a pair of structural support modules adapted to be mounted to a pair of vertical posts secured to said floor module and adapted to be at least mounted to said bulkhead module, and additionally providing a mechanism for assisting the hinged side panel section to open outwardly, and for at least assisting in maintaining the hinged side panel section closed. 15. A modular method for producing a modified conventional pickup truck bed having hidden storage in the side panels of the bed and located entirely within the modified bed and intermediate modified side panels defining a width and height of the modified bed without increasing the width or height of the bed and without changing the external contour of a conventional side panel bed, comprising: forming a floor module, forming a bulkhead module, forming a tailgate module, forming two vertical structural support modules for attachment to the floor module, forming two storage box assembly structural support modules, forming two side panel modules having hidden storage in at least one, and having the external contour of a conventional side panel bed, forming of the two side panel modules being carried out so as to include a storage box assembly and at least one hinged side panel section, and assembling the formed modules into a truck bed having hidden storage without substantially altering the conventional external appearance of the side panels of the bed and without increasing the width or height of the bed when compared to an external appearance of a substantially identical bed having side panels without the hidden storage, assembly of the formed modules being carried out by attaching the bulkhead module to the floor module, attaching the two vertical structural support modules to at least the floor module, then attaching the two storage box assembly structural support modules to the two vertical structural support modules, attaching the two side panel modules to the storage box assembly structural support modules, and operatively attaching the tailgate module to at least the floor module. 16. The modular method of claim 15, wherein forming the floor module includes providing a plurality of collapsible support beams having collapsible end sections so as to extend across the bed and beneath the floor. 17. The modular method of claim 16, wherein forming the two side panel modules includes providing openings therein into which said collapsible end sections of the collapsible support beams extend. 18. The modular method of claim 15, wherein forming the at least one side panel module with hidden storage includes providing a storage box having an opening therein, hinging an external section of a side panel of the module located adjacent the storage box to expose the interior of the storage box, and providing a hidden mechanism for at least retaining the hinged section of the side panel closed. 19. The modular method of claim 18, wherein providing the storage box includes providing at least one shelf or compartment in the storage box, and wherein a side panel is provided with at least one storage pocket. 20. The modular method of claim 18, wherein hinging an external section of a side panel of the module is carried out to enable the hinged section to open downwardly, upwardly or sideways. 21. The modular method of claim 18, wherein providing the side panel module with a hinged external section additionally includes providing the hinged section with means for retaining same in open position, and providing a top rail on side panel module to which is hinged the hinged external section. 22. The modular method of claim 15, wherein the assembling of the two side panel modules is carried out by attaching the two storage box assembly structural support modules to the vertical support structure modules attached to the floor module. 23. The modular method of claim 15, additionally including forming a support bar, attaching the support bar to an upper surface of a storage box section of a side panel module, and hinging a side panel section of the side panel module to the support bar. 24. A method for producing a modified conventional contoured pickup truck bed with a hidden storage area having a predetermined height located entirely within the modified bed and intermediate modified side panels defining a width of the modified bed, the width, height and external appearance of the modified bed being the same as that of a substantially identical conventional contoured pickup truck bed without any hidden storage area, comprising: providing a floor module, providing a bulkhead module, providing a tailgate module, providing a pair of storage box modules, providing a pair of side panel modules, providing a pair of vertical structural support assemblies, providing means on the storage box modules for hinging the side panel modules, attaching the vertical structural support assemblies to the floor module and to the bulkhead module, then attaching the storage box modules and the side panel modules to the vertical structural support assemblies forming a pickup truck bed wherein the side panel modules are hinged to enable uncovering and covering an adjacent side of the storage box modules. 25. The method of claim 24, additionally providing a pair of top bar assemblies, securing the top bar assemblies to the storage box modules, and hinging the side panel modules on the top bar assemblies. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the tail gate module is mounted at each end to a storage box module. 27. The method of claim 24, additional including forming the side panel modules to include providing the tail light assemblies, and additionally including mechanisms for the side panel modules for at least retaining same in a closed position. 28. A modular method or fabricating a modified truck bed having hidden storage located entirely in and intermediate modified side panels defining a width of the modified bed, without increasing the width and without changing the external appearance of the modified bed, the width and external appearance being the same as that of a substantially identical conventional truck bed without any hidden storage therein, comprising: providing a floor module, providing a bulkhead module, providing a tailgate module, providing two vertical structural support modules, providing two side panel modules having hidden storage area in at least one, and having an external appearance of conventional side panels, providing at last one hinged side panel section in the at least one side panel module to open outwardly to expose an interior of the hidden storage area, assembling the floor module, the bulkhead module, the tailgate module and the two vertical structural support modules to form a frame of a bed with the two vertical structural support modules being attached to the floor module and to the bulkhead module, and then attaching the two side panel modules to the two vertical structural support modules of the thus assembled frame, and hinging the tailgate module to the floor module, the assembling of the modules to form the frame of a bed and the attachment of the two side panel modules to the frame being carried out without substantially altering the conventional external appearance of the side panels of the bed and without increasing the width of the bed when compared to an external appearance and width of a substantially identical truck bed without the hidden storage. 