The temperatures of scavenger-emitting kit parts in a high-density plasma (HDP) etching system are elevated to or close to respective steady state equilibrium temperatures so that scavenger chemistry and rates remain substantially the same on a wafer-to-wafer basis. A relatively inert warm-up plasma is turned on within the HDP chamber during idle time periods that precede or occur between executions of a predefined plasma-processing recipe so as to raise the temperatures of chamber-internal kit parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A temperature control method practiced in a plasma chamber having one or more plasma-interactive floating parts, where the plasma chamber is used for plasma processing of a succession of workpieces each according to a corresponding process execution recipe, said method comprising the step of: in idle time periods that precede or occur between repeated executions of said recipe, maintaining a warm-up plasma in said plasma chamber for heating the one or more plasma-interactive floating parts so as to bring temperatures of the one or more plasma-interactive floating parts to respective goal temperatures that are greater than respective idle temperatures to which the floating parts would otherwise decay during the idle time periods. 2. The temperature control method of claim 1 wherein said warm-up plasma is composed mostly of one or more relatively inert gases that do not consume bulk material from the plasma-interactive floating parts. 3. The temperature control method of claim 2 wherein said warm-up plasma is composed mostly of argon. 4. The temperature control method of claim 2 wherein said one or more relatively inert gases include nitrogen. 5. The temperature control method of claim 2 wherein said warm-up plasma includes a minor amount of oxygen. 6. The temperature control method of claim 1 wherein: the repeated plasma-processings may be carried out one after another in a continuously-repetitive manner such that the continuously-repeated plasma processings tend to produce steady state equilibrium conditions within the plasma chamber, the steady state equilibrium conditions include steady state temperature versus time profiles for the one or more plasma-interactive floating parts; and said warm-up plasma is maintained so as to keep or bring at least one of the one or more plasma-interactive parts substantially close to a respective steady state temperature of the at least one part. 7. The temperature control method of claim 6 wherein a current temperature of one or more of said kit parts is determined by an open-loop technique wherein immediate measurements of kit part temperature are not taken; and said warm-up plasma is responsively maintained so as to keep or bring the so-determined, current temperature of at least one of the one or more plasma-interactive parts substantially close to its respective steady state temperature. 8. The temperature control method of claim 6 wherein a current temperature of one or more of said kit parts is determined by a closed-loop technique wherein real-time measurements of kit part temperature are taken; and said warm-up plasma is responsively maintained so as to keep or bring the so-determined, current temperature of at least one of the one or more plasma-interactive parts substantially close to its respective steady state temperature. 9. The temperature control method of claim 1 wherein said plasma chamber is a high-density plasma chamber used for reactive ion etching of oxides. 10. The temperature control method of claim 9 wherein a reactive ion etching process executed in said high-density plasma chamber employs a fluorocarbon within the plasma and wherein said one or more kit parts emit scavenger particles that partially remove fluorine radicals from the plasma, the kit parts being such that their respective rates of scavenger particle emission are temperature dependent. 11. The temperature control method of claim 1 wherein: said plasma chamber is used for generating a plasma including condensable components capable of condensing on surfaces of said one or more plasma-interactive kit parts; and said warm-up plasma is maintained so as to keep or bring at least one of the one or more plasma-interactive kit parts above a respective condensation state temperature, the condensation state temperature being one below which said condensable components tend to accumulate on a surface of the at least one plasma-interactive kit part. 12. The temperature control method of claim 11 wherein the condensation state temperature of the at least one plasma-interactive kit part is equal to or greater than 180.degree. C. 13. A method for bringing one or more floating kit parts within a high-density plasma reaction chamber to or near respective steady state conditions associated with uninterrupted steady state repetition of a predefined plasma processing recipe, said method comprising the steps of: (a) determining at least one steady state temperature of a corresponding kit part under said steady state conditions; and (b) prior to execution of said predefined plasma processing recipe, turning on a high-density warm-up plasma within the chamber to heat the at least one kit part to a temperature equal to or at least substantially near its corresponding steady state temperature so that steady state or near-steady state conditions are attained for the at least one kit part prior to execution of the predefined plasma processing recipe. 14. The temperature control method of claim 13 wherein said turned-on warm-up plasma is composed mostly of one or more relatively inert gases that do not consume substantial amounts of bulk material from the kit parts. 15. The temperature control method of claim 14 wherein said turned-on warm-up plasma is composed mostly of argon. 16. The temperature control method of claim 14 wherein said one or more relatively inert gases include nitrogen. 17. The temperature control method of claim 13 wherein said turned-on warm-up plasma includes oxygen. 18. A method for bringing one or more floating kit parts within a plasma chamber to or near respective goal temperatures prior to execution of a predefined plasma-processing recipe, the respective goal temperature of each floating kit part being a temperature associated with uninterrupted steady state repetition of the predefined plasma processing recipe, said method comprising the steps of: (a) defining directly or indirectly, a pre-recipe goal temperature for a corresponding kit part, said goal temperature being one to be attained by the corresponding kit part just prior to execution of said recipe; (b) determining a current temperature-indicating condition of the corresponding kit part prior to execution of said predefined plasma processing recipe; (c) if the determined current temperature-indicating condition indicates a current temperature that is substantially less than the defined pre-recipe goal temperature of the corresponding at least one kit part, turning on a warm-up plasma within said chamber prior to execution of said predefined plasma processing recipe so as to heat the at least one kit part. 19. The temperature control method of claim 18 further comprising the step of: (d) if the determined current temperature-indicating condition indicates a current temperature that is substantially greater than the determined goal temperature of the corresponding at least one kit part, preventing a turning on of or maintenance of a plasma within said chamber for a length of time prior to execution of said predefined plasma processing recipe so as to allow the at least one kit part to cool. 20. The temperature control method of claim 19 wherein the respective step of heating the at least one kit part or allowing the at least one kit part to cool is carried out until the current temperature of the at least one kit part is determined by said current temperature-indicating condition to be within approximately 10% of the goal temperature. 21. The temperature control method of claim 20 wherein the respective step of heating the at least one kit part or allowing the at least one kit part to cool is carried out until the current temperature-indicating condition of the at least one kit part is determined to be within approximately 1% of a corresponding goal temperature-indicating condition. 22. A method for obtaining substantially same kit part temperatures for one or more floating kit parts of a plasma chamber while performing plasma-processing on a succession of workpieces in accordance with a predefined plasma-processing recipe, said recipe having at least one constant-power subportion, said method comprising the steps of: (a) identifying a constant-power subportion of the recipe during which said floating kit parts are to be maintained at the substantially same kit part temperatures; and (b) using a warm-up plasma to heat the one or more floating kit parts each to a corresponding goal temperature greater than the corresponding substantially same kit part temperature that is to be maintained during the identified subportion of the recipe, said goal temperature being such that the temperature of each kit part decays to its corresponding substantially same kit part temperature during a workpiece loading phase (L) of each execution of the recipe. 23. A method for bringing one or more plasma-interactive parts within a plasma chamber to or near respective goal energy-states prior to execution of a predefined plasma-processing recipe on a workpiece, the respective goal energy-state of each plasma-interactive part being one that is associated with uninterrupted steady state repetition of the recipe, said method comprising the steps of: (a) defining a pre-recipe goal energy-state for a corresponding plasma-interactive part, said goal energy-state being one to be attained by the part just prior to execution of said recipe; (b) determining a current energy-state of the corresponding plasma-interactive part prior to execution of said predefined plasma processing recipe; (c) if the determined current energy-state indicates an energy level that is substantially less than that of the defined pre-recipe goal energy-state of the corresponding at least one plasma-interactive part, responsively energizing a warm-up plasma within said chamber prior to execution of said predefined plasma processing recipe so as to raise the energy level of the at least one plasma-interactive part. 24. The energy-state control method of claim 23 wherein said step (b) of determining the current energy-state is carried out in an open-loop manner. 25. The energy-state control method of claim 23 wherein said step (b) of determining the current energy-state is carried out in a closed-loop manner. 26. A machine-implemented control method for pre-conditioning a plasma processing chamber prior to execution, on a supplied workpiece, of a predefined plasma processing recipe, where the plasma processing chamber includes one or more plasma-interactive parts whose energy states affect the plasma processing of the supplied workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: (a) tracking the energy states of at least one of the plasma-interactive parts; (b) defining a goal energy state at which the tracked plasma-interactive part is to be upon the start of execution of said plasma processing recipe; (c) determining from said tracking whether a current energy state of the tracked plasma-interactive part is substantially different from the goal energy state prior to the start of execution of said plasma processing recipe such that the plasma processing of the supplied workpiece will be substantially changed by the determined difference between the goal energy state and the current energy state; and (d) in response to a finding by said step of determining that the current energy state of the tracked plasma-interactive part is substantially different from the goal energy state, energizing and maintaining a warm-up plasma within said plasma processing chamber prior to the start of execution of said recipe so as to bring the energy level of the tracked plasma-interactive part substantially to said goal energy state. 27. A machine-implemented control method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of: (e) loading the workpiece into the plasma processing chamber after said step (d) of energizing and maintaining the warm-up plasma. 28. A machine-implemented control method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of: (e) carrying out steps (a) through (d) within one or more programmable computers. 29. A machine-implemented control method according to claim 26 wherein said step (a) of tracking is carried out in an open-loop manner. 30. A machine-implemented control method according to claim 26 wherein said step (d) of energizing and maintaining includes maintaining the warm-up plasma at a goal-maintaining power level, the goal-maintaining power level being such that said goal energy state is the equilibrium energy state of the tracked plasma-interactive part when the goal-maintaining power level is maintained indefinitely. 31. A machine-implemented control method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of: (e) unloading a plasma-processed workpiece from the plasma processing chamber after execution of a main portion of the predefined plasma processing recipe and thereafter repeating said step (d) of energizing and maintaining the warm-up plasma for a next-supplied workpiece. 