An articulated apparatus is disclosed including a plurality of link members each in communication with and rotatably moveable with respect to at least one other adjacent link member about an associated joint between the adjacent link members. The plurality of link members include a first link member that extends in a first direction and is associated with a first joint having an axis of rotation in a second direction that is different than the first direction, and a second link member that extends in a third direction and is associated with a second joint having an axis of rotation in a fourth direction that is substantially coplanar with the third direction. The apparatus also includes a base portion including a drive assembly for controlling the movement of each of the link members with respect to other link members about the joints via tendons that control the rotational movement of the link members about the joints responsive to the drive assembly. At least some of the tendons extend through at least some of the joints including the first and second joints such that the movement of the link members about the joints through which the tendons extend, does not cause significant attendant movement of the tendons extending through the joints.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and a third link member coupled to a distal end of said second link member by a second joint, the movement of said second link member being governed by at least one tendon that passes through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second member with respect to said third member does not cause movement of said third member with respect to said second member. 2. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a second tendon that passes through said first axis of said first joint such that movement of said second member with respect to said third member does not cause movement of said third member with respect to said second member. 3. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a base portion including drive means for controlling the movement of each said link member with respect to other link members. 4. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and at least one tendon extending through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member is independent of movement of said at least one tendon with respect to said first joint. 5. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said apparatus further includes a second tendon that extends through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member is independent of movement of said tendons with respect to said first joint. 6. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said apparatus further includes a base portion including drive means for controlling the movement of each said link member with respect to other link members. 