The invention provides for the use of synaptic strengths to reflect the connectivity of local space to give a topological representation. Synaptic strengths are zeroed and the mobile entity's position is initialized. A probability of firing (P) is calculated from the spatial firing pattern of each cell. A cell fires if P is higher than a random number. The mobile entity's position is updated from a record of real motions and firing is again determined. Synapses between cells that both fire within 250 msec are strengthened. Synapses between cells with overlapping fields increase in strength whereas synapses between cells with distant fields will stay weak.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating a representation of an environment, said method comprising the steps of: a) selecting an environment to be represented by a plurality of place cells, said plurality of place cells being repositionable as a unit within said environment, each place cell in said plurality of place cells connected to one or more of other place cells in said plurality of place cells by a synapse, wherein two place cells of said plurality of place cells are designated as a pre synaptic place cell and a post synaptic place cell, each place cell having a firing field within said environment and firing when the plurality of place cells is located in the firing field of the place cell; b) determining whether ether said pre synaptic place cell has fired red within a first preselected time interval, and designating said pre synaptic place cell in said environment that has fired as a fired pre synaptic place cell; c) determining whether said post synaptic place cell has fired within a second preselected time interval, said synapse connecting said fired pre synaptic place cell to said post synaptic place cell having a synaptic strength value; d) increasing said synaptic strength value if said post synaptic place cell has fired; e) repeating steps b through d for other pairs of place cells of said plurality of place cells positioned within said environment; f) generating a representation of said environment, said generating comprising encoding distances between the firing fields of the pairs of place cells connected by said synapses, said distances being represented by said synaptic strength values. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising utilizing said representation of said environment to determine a path from an initial position in said environment to a final position in said environment. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said path comprises a path of shortest distance between said initial position and said final position. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said path comprises an optimum path between said initial position and said final position. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein a synaptic strength value increases as said distance decreases. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising decreasing said synaptic strength value at step d if only said pre synaptic place cell has fired. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising decreasing said synaptic strength value at step d if only said post synaptic place cell has fired. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising decreasing said synaptic strength value at step d if said pre synaptic place cell and said post synaptic place cell have not fired. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said first preselected time intervals equals said second preselected time interval. 10. A method for generating a representation of an environment, said method comprising the steps of: a) selecting an environment to be represented by a plurality of place cells, each place cell in said plurality of place cells connected to one or more of other place cells in said plurality of place cells by a synapse, wherein two place cells of said plurality of place cells are designated as a pre synaptic place cell and a post synaptic place cell, each place cell having a firing field within said environment; b) determining whether said pre synaptic place cell has fired within a first preselected time interval, and designating said pre synaptic place cell that has fired as a fired pre synaptic place cell; c) determining whether said post synaptic place cell has fired within a second preselected time interval, said synapse connecting said fired pre synaptic place cell to said post synaptic place cell having a synaptic strength value; d) increasing said synaptic strength value if said post synaptic place cell has fired; e) repeating steps b through d for other pairs of place cells of said plurality of place cells; f) generating a representation of said environment, said generating comprising encoding distances between the firing fields of the pairs of place cells connected by said synapses, said distances being represented by said synaptic strength values. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising utilizing said representation of said environment to determine a path from an initial position in said environment to a final position in said environment. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said path comprises a path of shortest distance between said initial position and said final position. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said path comprises an optimum path between said initial position and said final position. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein a synaptic strength value increases as said distance decreases. 15. The method of claim 10 further comprising decreasing said synaptic strength value at step d if only said pre synaptic place cell has fired. 16. The method of claim 10 further comprising decreasing said synaptic strength value at step d if only said post synaptic place cell has fired. 17. The method of claim 10 further comprising decreasing said synaptic strength value at step d if said pre synaptic place cell and said post synaptic place cell have not fired. 18. The method of claim 10 wherein said first preselected time intervals equals said second preselected time interval. 