The present invention relates to a versatile apparatus for securely storing and retrieving a variety of tools. A tool holding rack according to the present invention has a plurality of tool-holding clamping units. The tool-holding clamping units are mounted in a horizontal array, and a robot arm can access the units from below for retrieving and storing tools on the units. Consequently, the rack can be mounted above a work area, thereby increasing the working space available on the work area for manufacturing operations. In one embodiment of the present invention, each tool holding unit has a first jaw and a second jaw, with at least the second jaw being open at the bottom. The second jaw is movable relative to the first jaw. The tool-holding clamping units have a clamped mode in which the unit is adapted to clamp a tool in place on the rack, and an open mode in which the first jaw is spaced from the second jaw such that the unit is adapted to permit removal of a tool from the rack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool holding rack comprising: a plurality of tool-holding clamping units, each comprising a first jaw and a second jaw, at least said second jaw being open at the bottom, said second jaw being movable relative to said first jaw; and said tool-holding units being mounted in a horizontal array and being accessible from below for retrieving and storing tools on said tool storage units; wherein said tool-holding units have a clamped mode in which the unit is adapted to clamp a tool in place on the rack, and an open mode in which said first jaw is spaced from said second jaw such that said unit is adapted to permit removal of a tool from said rack; and wherein each of said tool-holding units includes at least one drive rod along which said second jaw moves relative to said first jaw. 2. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein said rack includes a drive system to individually open and close said units. 3. A rack unit for storing and retrieving tools for a robotic arm, the tools each having a tool disk and a tool pin aperture: a first jaw and a second jaw, said jaws being open at bottom; at least one rod, said second jaw being movable along said rod relative to said first jaw; a drive mechanism that is attached to said second jaw and which is adapted to move said second jaw relative to said first jaw along said rod; and a tool pin extending from said first jaw toward said second jaw, said tool pin being adapted to extend through a tool pin aperture of one of the tools when the tool is mounted on the rack unit; a position detector that detects when a tool is mounted on said rack unit; at least one detector for determining when the rack unit is open and shut wherein said rack unit has a closed position for storing a tool on the rack unit in which said second jaw is relatively closer to said first jaw, and an open position for both mounting and removing a tool from the rack unit in which said second jaw is relatively farther from said first jaw, said rack unit being biased in the closed position. 4. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein said tool holding units are biased toward said clamped mode. 5. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein said rack is adapted to receive and store tools individually weighing at least approximately 100 pounds. 6. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said tool holding units further comprise a position detector that detects when a tool is mounted on the tool holding unit. 7. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said tool holding units further comprises at least one detector that senses when the unit is open and shut. 8. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said tool holding units comprise a pin extending from one of said jaws toward the other of said jaws, said tool pin being adapted to extend through a tool pin aperture of a tool when the tool is mounted on the rack unit. 9. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 1 wherein said first jaw is also open at the bottom. 10. A rack unit for storing and retrieving tools for a robotic arm, the tools each having a tool disk for engagement with the rack and at least one tool pin aperture on the tool disk: a first jaw and a second jaw, at least said second jaw being open at the bottom; at least one rod, said second jaw being movable along said rod relative to said first jaw; a drive mechanism that is attached to said second jaw and which is adapted to move said second jaw relative to said first jaw along said rod; and a tool pin extending from said first jaw toward said second jaw, said tool pin being adapted to extend through a tool pin aperture of one of the tools when the tool is mounted on the rack unit; wherein said rack unit has a closed position for clamping a tool onto the rack unit in which said second jaw is relatively closer to said first jaw, and an open position for both mounting and removing a tool from the rack unit in which said second jaw is relatively farther from said first jaw. 11. A rack unit as defined in claim 10 wherein said drive mechanism is selected from the group comprising pneumatic drives, hydraulic drives, motor-driven drives and magnetic drives. 12. A rack unit as defined in claim 10 wherein said second jaw is substantially u-shaped. 13. A rack unit as defined in claim 10 wherein said second jaw is biased in said closed position. 14. A rack unit as defined in claim 10 wherein said rack further comprises a position detector that detects when a tool is mounted on said rack. 15. A rack unit as defined in claim 14 wherein said position detector comprises at least one proximity switch. 16. A rack unit as defined in claim 10 wherein said rack unit further comprises at least one detector that senses when the rack unit is open and shut. 17. A rack unit as defined in claim 10 wherein said rack unit is adapted to receive and store tools weighing at least approximately 100 pounds. 18. A manufacturing system utilizing a robotic arm, a rack, and a plurality of tools, the tools each having a tool disk for engagement with the rack and at least one tool pin aperture on the tool disk, the system comprising: a rack unit comprising: a first jaw and a second jaw, at least said second jaw being open at the bottom; at least one rod, said second jaw being movable along said rod relative to said first jaw; a drive mechanism that is attached to said second jaw and which is adapted to move said second jaw relative to said first jaw along said rod; and a tool pin extending from one of said jaws toward the other of said jaws, said tool pin being adapted to extend through a tool pin aperture of one of the tools when the tool is mounted on the rack unit; wherein said rack unit has a closed position for clamping a tool onto the rack unit in which said second jaw is relatively closer to said first jaw, and an open position for both mounting and removing a tool from the rack unit in which said second jaw is relatively farther from said first jaw; a tool stored on said rack unit; a robotic arm adapted to reach said tools stored on said rack units from beneath; and a workspace having a floor, said rack unit being mounted above and off of said workspace floor on a support structure, said first and second jaws extending downwardly toward the floor, said tool pin being adapted to prevent said tool from falling to the floor when said rack is in the open position and said tool is mounted on said rack. 19. A tool holding rack comprising: a plurality of tool-holding clamping units, each comprising a first jaw and a second jaw, at least said second jaw being open at the bottom, said second jaw being movable relative to said first jaw; and said tool-holding units being mounted in a horizontal array and being accessible from below for retrieving and storing tools on said tool storage units; wherein said tool-holding units have a clamped mode in which the unit is adapted to clamp a tool in place on the rack, and an open mode in which said first jaw is spaced from said second jaw such that said unit is adapted to permit removal of a tool from said rack; and wherein each of said tool holding units comprise a pin extending from said first jaw toward said second jaw, said tool pin being adapted to extend through a tool pin aperture of a tool when the tool is mounted on the rack unit. 20. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein each of said tool holding units further comprises at least one detector that senses when the unit is open and shut. 21. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein said first jaw is also open at the bottom. 22. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein said rack includes a drive system to individually open and close said units. 23. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein each of said tool-holding units includes at least one drive rod along which said second jaw moves relative to said first jaw. 24. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein said tool holding units are biased toward said clamped mode. 25. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein said rack is adapted to receive and store tools individually weighing at least approximately 100 pounds. 26. A tool holding rack as defined in claim 19 wherein each of said tool holding units further comprise a position detector that detects when a tool is mounted on the tool holding unit. 27. A tool holding rack comprising: a plurality of tool-holding clamping units, each comprising a first jaw and a second jaw, at least said second jaw being open at the bottom, said second jaw being movable relative to said first jaw; and said tool-holding units being mounted in a horizontal array and being accessible from below for retrieving and storing tools on said tool storage units; wherein said tool-holding units have a clamped mode in which the unit is adapted to clamp a tool in place on the rack, and an open mode in which said first jaw is spaced from said second jaw such that said unit is adapted to permit removal of a tool from said rack; and wherein each of said tool-holding units includes at least one drive rod along which said second jaw moves relative to said first jaw, and wherein the tool storage rack is adapted to be mounted above a floor to provide a free work space beneath the rack, such that a robotic arm can approach and engage the tool from beneath the rack, the rack being adapted to automatically open so that the robotic arm can remove the tool and then subsequently replace the tool onto the rack, the rack being adapted to automatically close to store the tool thereafter. 