The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the system comprising: means for sensing a surgical operation in different sensing modes; and means for automatically selecting different ones of the sensing modes to be used by the means for sensing based upon information from the means for sensing of the sensed surgical operation. 2. A system as in claim 1 further comprising means for advising a surgeon of predetermined information based upon the sensed surgical operation and, means for automatically selecting different types of advice to be advised based upon the sensed surgical operation. 3. A system as in claim 2 further comprising means for manually selecting advice to be advised to the surgeon. 4. A system for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the system comprising: means for sensing a surgical operation, the means for sensing being adapted to sense the surgical operation in different sensing modes; and means for automatically selecting different ones of the sensing modes that are used by the means for sensing to sense the surgical operation based, at least partially, upon the surgical operation as it is being sensed by the means for sensing. 5. A system for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the system comprising: at least one sensor for sensing a surgical operation, the at least one sensor being adapted to sense the surgical operation in different sensing modes; and a selector for automatically selecting the sensing mode to be used by the sensor based upon information from the sensor regarding the surgical operation being sensed by the sensor. 6. A method for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the method comprising steps of: providing a system for assisting the surgeon, the system comprising a sensor; sensing at least a portion of a surgical operation by the sensor; automatically selecting different sensing modes to be used by the system based upon information sensed by the sensor during the surgical operation; and advising the surgeon by the system based upon at least some of the sensed information. 7. A method for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the method comprising steps of: providing a system for assisting the surgeon, the system comprising a surgeon interface, a sensor and an instrument positioning robot; sensing at least a portion of a surgical operation by the sensor; and automatically selecting different movements of the robot to be used by the system based upon information sensed by the sensor during the surgical operation input from the surgeon interface. 