A disk gripper featuring a spindle fitting through the central hole of a disk, with the spindle harboring a movable latch which is a pin carried by a movable arm. An actuator shifts the latch out of the spindle once the spindle has entered a disk hole with the latch causing the disk to slide laterally into a curled finger which provides a protective, non-contacting envelope. The disk is held in place on the shoulder of a bulbous portion of the spindle which keeps the disk on the shoulder of the spindle. The actuator is activated by a floating sensor ring carried by the spindle. When the spindle passes through a disk hole, the sensor ring moves upwardly, resting on the disk sending an upright tripper into an optical detector causing the latch to retract and allowing the spindle to pass into the disk hole. After passage into the disk hole the latch is released, causing lateral disk motion, causing the disk to laterally slide into a securely held position.
Claims I claim: 1. A gripper for a robotic apparatus for picking disks of the type having a central hole, the gripper comprising, a cross member associated with a robot arm, the member having an extended portion near an outer rim of a disk to be picked, a cylindrical spindle having a bulbous end portion with a shoulder capable of fitting within the central hole of a disk, the spindle supported from the cross member and housing a latch movable into and out of a slot within the spindle, a detector capable of detecting passage of the bulbous portion through the disk hole, the detector associated with the spindle away from the bulbous portion and generating an electrical signal indicative of such passage, an electrical actuator responsive to the signal from the detector and having a movable rod linearly pushing the latch against a rim of the disk hole, whereby the electrical actuator urges the latch out of the spindle, thereby shifting the position of the disk, the disk being supported at its hole rim by the shoulder of the bulbous portion and the latch. 2. The gripper of claim 1 further comprising a curled finger at an end of said cross member having dimensions for enveloping a disk edge, said disk being nudged into envelopment by the latch. 3. The gripper of claim 2 wherein said curled finger comprises a shelf which envelops said disk in a non-contacting manner. 4. The gripper of claim 1 further comprising, an annular sensor ring supported at the bulbous end of the spindle in a floating manner relative to the spindle, the annular sensor ring carrying a detector tripper capable of activating the detector. 5. The gripper of claim 4 wherein the detector tripper is a pin projecting from the sensor ring. 6. The gripper of claim 1 wherein said detector is an optical detector. 7. The gripper of claim 1 wherein the latch is an elongated member connected to the movable rod of the actuator. 8. The gripper of claim 1 wherein a spring is associated with the latch, biasing the latch out of the spindle from a position seated within said slot. 9. The gripper of claim 8 wherein said spring is mounted in opposition to the actuator. 10. The gripper of claim 1 wherein the cross member is movable by a motor associated with a robotic apparatus. 11. The gripper of claim 10 where said motor drives a screw connected to the cross member. 12. The gripper of claim 1 wherein said actuator is supported by the cross member. 13. A gripper for a robotic arm adapted for picking disks of the type having a central hole, the gripper comprising, an elongated spindle, having an axis, attached to a robotic arm movable both vertically and laterally, the spindle having an exterior slot parallel to the axis and a lower bulbous portion, including a shoulder capable of fitting within the central hole of a disk, a sensor ring associated with the spindle in a vertically movable manner parallel to the spindle axis, the ring having a lower surface adapted for contact with the disk, moving the sensor ring along the spindle axis, the sensor ring having a first position prior to contact with the disk and a second position after contact with the disk and vertical motion of the spindle into the disk hole to the extent that the bulbous portion of the spindle is within the disk hole above the shoulder, a latch supported for lateral movement transverse to the spindle axis to a first position in said slot allowing a disk hole to pass over the latch without contact and to a second position extending from the slot contacting the disk in a manner nudging the disk laterally away from the spindle axis, a fixed finger extending laterally away from the spindle to a curled terminus having a width capable of protectively wrapping a disk edge, a detector associated with the sensor ring and producing a first signal when the sensor ring is in the second position and a second signal when the sensor ring is in the first position, an electrical actuator having a force rod urged to move the latch laterally upon receipt of the first detector signal, whereby the disk is shifted laterally into the curled terminus of the fixed finger by the actuator, the disk residing in the curled terminus in a non-contacting manner, the disk being supported by the shoulder of the bulbous region. 14. The gripper of claim 13 further defined by a spring biased in opposition to the force rod. 15. A method of picking a disk with a rimmed hole comprising, inserting a spindle with non-uniform peripheral regions through the rimmed hole of a disk, sensing passage of the spindle through the rimmed hole, projecting a latch radially outwardly from the spindle, shifting the disk position laterally by contacting the rimmed hole with the latch, holding the shifted disk at rest against a non-uniform peripheral region of the spindle with the latch, and applying motion to the spindle, transverse to the shifted disk position, thereby picking the disk. 16. The method of claim 15 further defined by supporting the spindle from a robotic apparatus. 17. The method of claim 15 further defined by enveloping radially outward edges of the disk with a curled finger. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said envelopment is non-contacting. 19. The method of claim 17 further defined by supporting the curled finger in a fixed position relative to the spindle. 20. The method of claim 15 further defined by generating an electrical signal in response to sensing passage of the spindle through the rimmed hole. 