A high pressure, high throughput, single wafer, semiconductor processing reactor is disclosed which is capable of thermal CVD, plasma-enhanced CVD, plasma-assisted etchback, plasma self-cleaning, and deposition topography modification by sputtering, either separately or as part of in-situ multiple step processing. The reactor includes cooperating arrays of interdigitated susceptor and wafer support fingers which collectively remove the wafer from a robot transfer blade and position the wafer with variable, controlled, close parallel spacing between the wafer and the chamber gas inlet manifold, then return the wafer to the blade. A combined RF/gas feed-through device protects against process gas leaks and applies RF energy to the gas inlet manifold without internal breakdown or deposition of the gas. The gas inlet manifold is adapted for providing uniform gas flow over the wafer. Temperature-controlled internal and external manifold surfaces suppress condensation, premature reactions and decomposition and deposition on the external surface. The reactor also incorporates a uniform radial pumping gas system which enables uniform reactant gas flow across the wafer and directs purge gas flow downwardly and upwardly toward the periphery of the wafer for sweeping exhaust gases radially away from the wafer to prevent deposition outside the wafer and keep the chamber clean. The reactor provides uniform processing over a wide range of pressures including very high pressures. A low temperature CVD process for forming a highly conformal layer of silicon dioxide is also disclosed. The process uses very high chamber pressure and low temperature, and TEOS and ozone reactants. The low temperature CVD silicon dioxide deposition step is particularly useful for planarizing underlying stepped dielectric layers, either alone or in conjunction with a subsequent isotropic etch. A preferred in-situ multiple-step process for forming a planarized silicon dioxide layer uses (1) high rate silicon dioxide deposition at a low temperature and high pressure followed by (2) the deposition of the conformal silicon dioxide layer also at high pressure and low temperature, followed by (3) a high rate isotropic etch, preferably at low temperature and high pressure in the sane reactor used for the two oxide deposition steps. Various combinations of the steps are disclosed for different applications, as is a preferred reactor self-cleaning step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a process for depositing silicon dioxide onto a substrate by exposing the substrate to plasma formed from a gas mixture which includes tetraethylorthosilicate, the steps of: positioning the substrate on a support within a vacuum chamber and adjacent a gas manifold which is an RF electrode and includes a multiplicity of closely-spaced gas outlet holes closely adjacent the substrate; and communicating the gas mixture into the manifold while applying RF energy between the manifold and the substrate support and maintaining the total pressure in the chamber within the range of about 1 to 50 torr and the temperature of the substrate in the range of about 200.degree. .[.C..]. .Iadd.C .Iaddend.to 500.degree. .[.C..]. .Iadd.C so that a layer of silicon oxide is deposited onto the substrate at a deposition rate greater than 400 angstroms per minute, said silicon oxide layer quality and step coverage being adequate for VLSI semiconductor fabrication..Iaddend. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the chamber pressure is about 1 to 12 torr. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the gas mixture includes oxygen. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein the chamber pressure is about 1 to 12 torr and the gas mixture includes oxygen. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the distance between the gas outlet holes and the substrate is less than about one centimeter. 6. The process of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5, further comprising communicating a purging gas into the vacuum chamber from the periphery of the manifold in a flow radially away from the substrate to confine the deposition plasma species to the substrate. 7. The process of claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, further comprising communicating purging gas into the vacuum chamber in upwardly and downwardly directed flows merging about the periphery of the substrate and moving radially outwardly thereof for confining the reactive deposition species to the substrate. 8. The process of claim 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, further comprising communicating an inert gas into the chamber. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein the inert gas is communicated into the gas inlet manifold. 10. The process of claim 8, further comprising communicating purging gas into the vacuum chamber in upwardly and downwardly directed flows merging about the periphery of the substrate and moving radially outwardly thereof for confining the reactive deposition species to the substrate. 11. The process of claim 9, further comprising communicating purging gas into the vacuum chamber in upwardly and downwardly directed flows merging about the periphery of the substrate and moving radially outwardly thereof for confining the reactive deposition species to the substrate. 12. In a process of depositing silicon dioxide onto a substrate by exposing the substrate to reactive deposition species resulting from the decomposition of tetraethylorthosilicate in an oxidizing plasma, the steps of positioning the substrate on a support within a vacuum chamber and adjacent a manifold which is an RF electrode and which includes a multiplicity of closely-spaced outlet holes closely adjacent the substrate; and communicating tetraethylorthosilicate and an oxidizing species into the chamber via the manifold holes while applying RF energy between the manifold and the substrate support and maintaining the total pressure in the chamber within the range of about 1 to 50 torr .Iadd.so that a layer of silicon oxide is deposited onto the substrate at a deposition rate greater than 400 angstroms per minute, said silicon oxide layer quality and step coverage being adequate for VLSI semiconductor fabrication.Iaddend.. .Iadd. 13. In a process for depositing silicon dioxide onto a substrate by exposing the substrate to plasma formed from a gas mixture which includes tetraethylorthosilicate, the steps of: positioning the substrate on a support within a vacuum chamber; communicating the gas mixture into the chamber to a first volume adjacent the substrate; directing the gas mixture from said first volume in a multiplicity of closely-spaced streams through a second volume between the first volume and the substrate while applying RF energy to the second volume; and maintaining the total pressure in the chamber within the range of about 1 to 50 torr and the temperature of the substrate in the range of about 200.degree. C to 500.degree. C, whereby a layer of silicon dioxide having improved step coverage is deposited onto the substrate with a deposition rate greater than 400 angstroms per minute, said silicon oxide layer quality and step coverage being adequate for VLSI semiconductor fabrication..Iaddend..Iadd.14. The process of claim 13 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate equal or greater than 5000 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.15. In a process of depositing silicon dioxide onto a substrate by exposing the substrate to reactive deposition species resulting from the decomposition of tetraethylorthosilicate in an oxidizing plasma, the steps of: positioning the substrate on a support within a vacuum chamber; communicating tetraethylorthosilicate and an oxidizing species into the chamber to a first volume adjacent the substrate; directing the gas mixture from said first volume in a multiplicity of closely-spaced streams through a second volume between the first volume and the substrate while applying RF energy to the second volume; and maintaining the total pressure in the chamber within the range of about 1 to 50 torr, whereby a layer of silicon dioxide having improved step coverage is deposited onto the substrate with a deposition rate greater than 400 angstroms per minute, said silicon oxide layer quality and step coverage being adequate for VLSI semiconductor fabrication..Iaddend..Iadd.16. The process according to claim 15 wherein the step of directing distributes the gas with a substantially uniform spatial distribution over the surface of the substrate..Iaddend..Iadd.17. The process according to claim 15 wherein the step of directing includes directing the gas mixture from the first volume in a direction substantially perpendicular to the substrate..Iaddend..Iadd.18. The process according to claim 15 wherein the step of directing includes applying a ground potential for the RF energy to the substrate..Iaddend..Iadd.19. The process according to claim 15 wherein the RF power is applied at the frequency of approximately 13.5 MHz..Iaddend..Iadd.20. The process according to claim 15 wherein the chamber pressure is about 1 to 12 torr..Iaddend..Iadd.21. The process according to claim 15 wherein the gas mixture includes oxygen..Iaddend..Iadd.22. The process according to claim 15 further comprising the steps of gasifying liquid TEOS and including the gasified TEOS in said gas mixture..Iaddend..Iadd.23. The process of claim 15 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate substantially greater than 400 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.24. The process of claim 15 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate equal or greater than 5000 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.25. The process according to claim 13 wherein the step of directing includes applying a ground potential for the RF energy to the substrate..Iaddend..Iadd.26. The process according to claim 13 wherein the RF power is applied at the frequency of approximately 13.5 MHz..Iaddend..Iadd.27. The process according to claim 13 wherein the chamber pressure is about 1 to 12 torr..Iaddend..Iadd.28. The process according to claim 13 wherein the gas mixture includes oxygen..Iaddend..Iadd.29. The process according to claim 13, further comprising the steps of gasifying liquid TEOS and including the gasified TEOS in said gas mixture..Iaddend..Iadd.30. The process according to claim 13 wherein the step of directing distributes the gas with a substantially uniform spatial distribution over the surface of the substrate..Iaddend..Iadd.31. The process according to claim 13 wherein the step directing includes directing the gas mixture from the first volume in a direction substantially perpendicular to the substrate..Iaddend..Iadd.32. The process of claim 1 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate substantially greater than 400 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.33. The process of claim 1 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate equal or greater than 5000 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.34. The process of claim 12 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate substantially greater than 400 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.35. The process of claim 12 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate equal or greater than 5000 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend..Iadd.36. The process of claim 13 wherein the deposition of silicon dioxide onto the substrate is at a rate substantially greater than 400 Angstroms per minute..Iaddend. 