A robot end effector for automated processing facilitates wet wafer processing by improving the maintenance of the end effector. In particular, the end effector may be exposed to a variety of chemical conditions in the course of its operation. By making the end effector finger removable from the arm, maintenance of the end effector finger is facilitated. By providing alignment means between the end effector finger and the arm, one can insure that the finger is accurately positioned on the arm after such maintenance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wet wafer processing robot comprising: an arm having an end effector finger adapted to engage a wafer carrier, said finger being removable from said arm; said finger having a length, said finger arranged to extend transversely to said arm over a substantial portion of the length of said finger; and an alignment device including a threaded fastener and at least one pin, said device extending transversely to the length of said finger through said finger and parallel to and into said arm. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said end effector has a free end, said free end having a hook-shaped grasping element. 3. The robot of claim 1 including a screw extending transversely to the length of said finger and a threaded opening to receive said screw so as to threadedly engage said arm, a pair of pins on either side of said screw, each of said pins arranged to engage slots on either side of said threaded opening in said arm. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein said finger is coated with a corrosion resistant film. 5. The robot of claim 4 wherein said finger is coated with fluorocarbon. 6. A method of maintaining a robot used for wet wafer processing comprising: removing a wafer carrier engaging finger from a robot arm; cleaning said finger; orienting said finger with the length of the finger being transverse to the length of said arm; aligning said finger precisely with said robot arm; and securing said finger to said robot arm by extending fasteners through said finger transversely to the length of said finger into said arm in a direction parallel to the length of said arm. 7. The method of claim 6 including using a pair of pins to guide said finger into alignment with the rest of said arm. 8. The method of claim 7 including using a threaded fastener to secure said finger to said arm. 