A pass-through, wafer-processing tool for treating a moving semiconductor wafer with a process gas. The tool comprises an open-ended, non-isolated processing module having a wafer path through the module, vacuum manifolds mounted adjacent the wafer entry to and wafer exit from the module, and a gas manifold between the vacuum manifolds adapted to direct process gas onto the moving wafer. The gas manifold may deliver plasma ions generated by a remote plasma unit outside the module. Instead, a plasma may be generated inside the pass-through, wafer processing tool and, if so, the tool further comprises a top electrode mounted above the wafer passage. A wafer handler, which may be a robotic handler, carries the wafer through the wafer passage and serves as a bottom electrode. The gas manifold delivers reactive gas between the moving wafer and the top electrode while an RF source connected to the top electrode delivers sufficient RF energy to generate a plasma from the reactive gas between the top electrode and the wafer. One or more pass-through, wafer-processing tools may be part of an integrated system of semiconductor wafer processing tools. Processes for treating semiconductor wafers with process gas using the above apparatus are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A pass-through wafer-processing tool for treatment of a moving semiconductor wafer with a process gas, said tool comprising: an open-ended, non-isolated processing module having a wafer entry, a wafer exit, and a wafer passage connecting the wafer entry and wafer exit, said wafer passage dimensioned to accommodate travel of said wafer through said passage; a first vacuum manifold mounted adjacent said wafer entry; a second vacuum manifold mounted adjacent said wafer exit; and a gas manifold adapted to direct said process gas onto said moving wafer between said vacuum manifolds. 2. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 1 wherein said gas manifold is adapted to be connected to a remote plasma unit outside said processing module and said process gas comprises plasma ions generated by said remote plasma unit. 3. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 2 further comprising a wafer handler connected to ground. 4. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 1 wherein said process gas is a reactive gas and said tool further comprises: a top electrode mounted in said processing module above said wafer passage; a wafer handler carrying said wafer through said wafer passage from underneath said wafer, functioning as a bottom electrode, and having a DC-bias; and an RF source connected to said top electrode and delivering sufficient RF energy to strike and maintain said reactive gas in a plasma bounded between said vacuum manifolds, said top electrode, and said wafer. 5. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 4 wherein said top electrode comprises a baffle plate within said gas manifold. 6. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 1 further comprising a wafer handler. 7. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 6 wherein said wafer handler is a robotic handler controlling movement of said wafer through said tool at a desired speed. 8. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 1 wherein said wafer has a diameter and said tool has a depth between said wafer entry and said wafer exit that is less than said wafer diameter. 9. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 1 wherein said process gas comprises at least one of ammonia, hydrogen, and nitrogen. 10. The pass-through wafer-processing tool of claim 1 wherein said tool is adapted to provide at least one of a cleaning step, a sputtering step, a chemical vapor deposition step, a plasma treatment step, and a reactive ion etching step. 11. An integrated system of semiconductor wafer processing tools comprising at least one pass-through wafer-processing tool according to claim 1. 12. The system of wafer processing tools of claim 11 further comprising a wafer handler sequentially carrying said wafer from a first processing tool before said pass-through wafer-processing tool, through said pass-through wafer-processing tool, and into a second processing tool after said pass-through wafer-processing tool. 13. The system of wafer processing tools of claim 12 wherein the pass-through, wafer-processing tool is a pre-cleaner adapted to clean said wafer in preparation for a process performed on said wafer in said second processing tool sequentially after the pass-through wafer-processing tool. 14. A process for treating a moving semiconductor wafer with process gas in a pass-through wafer-processing tool comprising an open-ended, non-isolated processing module, said process comprising: a) moving said wafer into said pass-through wafer-processing tool through a wafer entry in said processing module and along a wafer passage dimensioned to accommodate travel of said wafer through said processing module; b) moving said wafer past an entry vacuum manifold adjacent said wafer entry; c) moving said wafer past a gas manifold that delivers said process gas onto said moving wafer; d) moving said wafer past an exit vacuum manifold adjacent a wafer exit in said processing module; and e) moving said wafer out of said pass-through wafer-processing tool through a wafer exit in said processing module. 15. A process for treating a moving semiconductor wafer with process gas in a pass-through wafer-processing tool comprising a processing module, said process comprising: a) moving said wafer into said pass-through wafer-processing tool through a wafer entry in said processing module and along a wafer passage dimensioned to accommodate travel of said wafer through said processing module; b) moving said wafer past an entry vacuum manifold adjacent said wafer entry; c) moving said wafer past a gas manifold that delivers said process gas onto said moving wafer; d) moving said wafer past an exit vacuum manifold adjacent a wafer exit in said processing module; and e) moving said wafer out of said pass-through wafer-processing tool through a wafer exit in said processing module; wherein said wafer has a forward portion and a rear portion and said wafer moves in a forward direction in which said forward portion of said wafer completes steps (a) through (e) sequentially before said rear portion of said wafer begins step (a). 16. The process of claim 14 further comprising moving said semiconductor wafer from an upstream semiconductor processing tool prior to step (a) and moving said semiconductor wafer to a downstream semiconductor processing tool after step (e). 17. The process of claim 16 further comprising moving said wafer in a first direction through said pass-through wafer-processing tool and performing steps (a) through (e), performing an operation in said downstream semiconductor processing tool, and then moving the wafer back through said pass-through wafer-processing tool in a second direction opposite said first direction and performing steps (a) through (e). 18. The process of claim 14 wherein said process gas is a reactive gas and the process further comprises moving said semiconductor wafer on a wafer handler functioning as a bottom electrode underneath said wafer and, in step (c): i) moving said wafer with said wafer handler in a path underneath a top electrode mounted above said moving wafer between said entry vacuum manifold at said exit vacuum manifold; ii) delivering RF energy to said top electrode sufficient to generate a plasma from said reactive gas in a region bounded by said vacuum manifolds, said top electrode, and said wafer; and iii) DC-biasing said wafer handler to attract plasma ions from said plasma to impinge upon said wafer. 19. The process of claim 14 wherein said process gas is a plasma containing plasma ions, the process further comprising directing said plasma ions onto said moving wafer in step (c) by generating said plasma ions in a remote plasma unit outside said processing module and delivering said plasma ions onto said moving wafer through said gas manifold. 20. The process of claim 19 further comprising moving said wafer with a wafer handler that is biased to ground. 21. A plasma-generating device for exposing a moving semiconductor wafer to a plasma, said device comprising: a robotic handler for moving said wafer, said robotic handler forming a bottom electrode underneath said wafer; a top electrode mounted above said wafer; reactive gas between said top electrode and said wafer; and an RF source connected to said top electrode and delivering sufficient RF energy to generate a plasma from said reactive gas between said top electrode and said wafer. 22. A process for exposing a moving semiconductor wafer to a plasma, said process comprising: a) placing said semiconductor wafer on a robotic handler forming a bottom electrode underneath said wafer; b) moving said wafer with said robotic handler in a path underneath a top electrode mounted above said moving wafer; c) delivering a reactive gas between said top electrode and said wafer; and d) delivering RF energy to said top electrode sufficient to generate a plasma from said reactive gas between said top electrode and said wafer. 23. A pass-through module comprising at open-ended, non-isolated module passage having a wafer entry and a wafer exit and dimensioned to accommodate travel therethrough of a wafer having a diameter, the wafer entry and wafer exit having a distance therebetween that is less than the wafer diameter, the module adapted to treat a portion of the wafer with a process gas during travel of the wafer between the wafer entry and wafer exit and having a first vacuum manifold supported adjacent the wafer entry to minimize how much process gas escapes the module through the wafer entry and a second vacuum manifold supported adjacent the wafer exit to minimize how much process gas escapes the module through the wafer exit. 24. The pass-through module of claim 23 wherein the process gas comprises a plasma of reactive ions. 