Biological assay systems often involve suspending magnetically attractable particles in a liquid, and later bringing down the particles from suspension and separating the formed pellet from the supernatant liquid. The invention provides magnetic systems for this purpose, shaped to form an annular or part-annular pellet close to the bottom of the vessel. The systems are suitable for automation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnet system comprising: a back flow plate of magnetizable material, a plurality of pairs of permanent magnets each having opposed first and second ends, the first end of each said magnet being positioned on the back flow plate with a N-S axis oriented perpendicular to the back flow plate, the polarity of each permanent magnet of a pair being opposite to that of its neighbor, the permanent magnets of a pair being spaced apart to define between them a work station in the form of an upwardly-open hole for receiving a vessel. 2. The magnet system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each magnet of a pair has a channel extending axially of the magnet, the two magnets of a pair being positioned with their respective channels facing one another to define the upwardly-open hole for locating the vessel at the work station. 3. The magnet system as claimed in claim 2, wherein each channel is of part-circular section. 4. The magnet system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each permanent magnet is of cuboid shape. 5. Apparatus which comprises: an array of vessels each to contain a liquid suspension of magnetically attractable particles; a pipetting system for transferring liquid to and from the array of vessels; and a magnet system; and means for mounting the magnet system for vertical movement relative to the array of vessels, said means being adapted to bring the magnet system to either of two positions and hold the magnet system in that position, the positions being: (i) engaged with the array of vessels in an annular separation position; and (ii) free of the array of vessels; wherein the magnet system comprises: a back flow plate of magnetizable material, a plurality of pairs of permanent magnets each having opposed first and second ends, the first end of each said magnet being positioned on the back flow plate with a N-S axis oriented perpendicular to the back flow plate, the polarity of each permanent magnet of a pair being opposite to that of its neighbor, the permanent magnets of a pair being spaced apart to define between them a work station. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the said means for moving the magnet system relative to the array of vessels is adapted to bring the magnet system to any one of three positions and hold the magnet system in that position, the positions being i) and ii) and iii) engaged with the array of vessels in a pull-down position. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein each magnet of a pair has a channel extending axially of the magnet, the two magnets of a pair being positioned with their respective channels facing one another to define an upwardly-open hole for locating the vessel at the work station. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein each channel is of part-circular section. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein each permanent magnet is of cuboid shape. 