A method and apparatus is disclosed for cooling a substrate between high temperature thermal processing steps. In the disclosed embodiment, one or more cooling stations are located off-line within a wafer handling chamber, just outside the thermal processing chamber. After thermal processing, a hot wafer can be loaded on to the cooling station, where the wafer is subjected to forced convection cooling. In particular, the wafer is subjected to cooling gas from above and below through perforated upper and lower shower head assemblies. The wafer can thus be cooled rapidly on a cooling station while other wafers are transferred into and out of the processing chamber. Desirably, the wafer is cooled on the cooling station to a point at which it can be handled by a low temperature wafer handler and stored in a low temperature cassette.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cooling a substrate after a high temperature processing comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which a substrate may be moved to and from a storage area into a handling chamber, and having a port through which the substrate may be moved from the handling chamber into or out of a high temperature processing chamber; an automatic substrate handler in the handling chamber for transporting a substrate to and from the storage area into and out of the process chamber; and a cooling station in which a processed substrate may be moved by said handler to be cooled before being returned to the storage area, said station being located in a section of the handling chamber out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be withdrawn from the storage area by the handler and placed in the process chamber while the first substrate is being cooled in the cooling station. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said cooling station includes upper and lower gas showerheads spaced from each other, and including supports for supporting a substrate between the showerheads and spaced from the showerheads, each of said showerheads being adapted to be connected to a source of cooling gas to enable cooling gas to be projected through openings in said showerheads onto the upper and lower surface of a substrate to cool the substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, including a second cooling station accessible by the handler but located out of the path of the handler movement to enable the wafer handler to move a substrate from the storage area to the process chamber while a substrate is in said second cooling station. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said cooling stations are located one on each side of the port leading to the process chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the cooling stations are positioned about 100 degrees apart such that the wafer handler only needs to be rotated about 50 degrees from the process chamber port to alignment with one of the cooling stations. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said wafer handler includes a paddle for withdrawing a wafer from the storage area or placing a wafer into the storage cassette and includes a Bernoulli wand for lifting a substrate from above said paddle and said wand being movable and arranged so that a substrate may be transferred from the paddle to the Bernoulli wand or from the Bernoulli wand to the paddle, said paddle being sized such that it can fit between substrates stored in commonly available cassettes; and said process chamber port and said cooling station being constructed such that substrates may be moved into and out of said process chamber and into and out of said cooling station by said Bernoulli wand. 7. An apparatus for cooling a wafer substrate comprising: first and second shower heads spaced from each other and oriented towards each other so that fluid sprayed from the heads is sprayed towards each other; and a support for supporting said substrate between said shower heads, said support being configured to cause fluid from said shower heads to spray onto opposite flat sides of said substrate. 8. A method of cooling substrates that have been subjected to high temperature processing, comprising: providing a substrate handler capable of transporting substrates into and out of a high temperature process chamber; withdrawing a hot substrate from the process chamber with said substrate handler and transporting said hot substrate into a cooling station accessible by the handler; and inserting a second substrate into the process chamber with said handler while the first mentioned substrate is cooling in the cooling station. 9. An apparatus for cooling a substrate after a high temperature processing comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which a substrate may be moved to and from a storage area into a handling chamber, and having a port through which the substrate may be moved from the handling chamber into or out of a high temperature processing chamber; an automatic substrate handler for transporting a substrate to and from the storage area into and out of the process chamber; and a cooling station in which a processed substrate may be moved by said handler to be cooled before being returned to the storage area, said station being located out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be withdrawn from the storage area by the handler and placed in the process chamber while the first substrate is being cooled, said cooling station including upper and lower gas showerheads spaced from each other, and including a support for supporting a substrate between the shower heads and spaced from the showerheads, each of said shower heads being adapted to be connected to a source of cooling gas to enable cooling gas to be projected through openings in said shower heads onto the upper and lower surface of a substrate to cool the substrate. 10. An apparatus for cooling a substrate after a high temperature processing comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which a substrate may be moved to and from a storage area into a handling chamber, and having a port through which the substrate may be moved from the handling chamber into or out of a high temperature processing chamber; an automatic substrate handler for transporting a substrate to and from the storage area into and out of the process chamber; a cooling station in which a processed substrate may be moved by said handler to be cooled before being returned to the storage area, said station being located out of the path of the handler movement to enable a second substrate to be withdrawn from the storage area by the handler and placed in the process chamber while the first substrate is being cooled; and a second cooling station accessible by the handler but located out of the path of the handler movement to enable the wafer handler to move a substrate from the storage area to the process chamber while a substrate is in said second cooling station. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said cooling stations are located one on each side of the port leading to the process chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the cooling stations are positioned about 100.degree. apart such that the wafer handler only needs to be rotated about 50.degree. from the process chamber port to alignment with one of the cooling stations. 13. A method of cooling a thin, hot substrate that has been subjected to high temperatures in a chamber, comprising the steps of: removing the hot substrate from the chamber with a substrate handler; moving the handler and the hot substrate to a position between upper and lower showerheads; depositing the hot substrate on spaced supports configured to position the substrate between and spaced from the showerheads; withdrawing the handler from between the showerheads leaving the substrate on the supports; and spraying gaseous coolant from the showerheads onto generally flat upper and lower surfaces of the substrate. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said removing, moving, and depositing steps are performed with a Bernoulli wand which is positioned above the hot substrate and lifts the substrate without contacting said upper and lower surfaces of the substrate. 