A system for correcting eccentricity and rotational error of a substantially circular workpiece, in which the workpiece is moved to a workstation, using a translating device. The rotational position and position of the workpiece center is determined. There is a rotatable member at the workstation, having a home position and a center. The rotatable member is pre-rotated from its home position an amount sufficient to correct workpiece rotational error. The translating device is caused to place the workpiece on the rotatable member such that the workpiece center is at a known position relative to the center of the rotatable member, to correct eccentricity. The rotatable member is then rotated back to its home position, to correct rotational error.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for correcting eccentricity and rotational error of a substantially circular workpiece, in which the workpiece is moved to a workstation using a translating device, the system comprising: means for determining the rotational position and position of the workpiece center; a rotatable member at the workstation, having a home position and a center; means, responsive to said means for determining, for pre-rotating said rotatable member from its home position an amount sufficient to correct workpiece rotational error; means, responsive to said means for determining, for causing the translating device to place the workpiece on said rotatable member such that the workpiece center is at a known position relative to the center of said rotatable member, to correct eccentricity; and means for rotating said rotatable member back to its home position, to correct rotational error, wherein the eccentricity and rotational error of the workpiece are corrected without transferring the workpiece to an alignment station. 2. The system of claim 1 in which said means for determining the rotational position and position of the workpiece center includes a machine vision system which captures an image of the workpiece, and computes said rotational position and position of the workpiece center therefrom. 3. The system of claim 2 in which said machine vision system includes an image capture means on one side of the workpiece, and a light source on the other side of the workpiece, to better define the workpiece periphery. 4. The system of claim 2 in which said machine vision system includes an image capture means and a light source, both on the same side of the workpiece, in which said image capture means captures light from said light source reflected from said workpiece. 5. The system of claim 1 in which said rotatable member includes a multiple fingered pedestal. 6. The system of claim 5 in which said fingers of said pedestal are equally spaced about the center of said pedestal, and project radially therefrom. 7. The system of claim 6 in which the workstation includes a workpiece-receiving pad with a plurality of radial slots for receiving said fingers of said pedestal, to allow said pedestal to be withdrawn below the surface of said workpiece-receiving pad. 8. The system of claim 7 further including means for lifting said rotatable member above the pad surface before it is prerotated, and for withdrawing said rotatable member below the pad surface after said rotatable member is rotated back to its home position. 9. The system of claim 6 in which said pedestal includes three fingers. 10. The system of claim 1 in which said means for determining the rotational position and position of the workpiece center includes means for measuring the position of said workpiece center relative to the translating device, when said workpiece is on said translating device. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the workstation has a center, and in which said means for causing the translating device to place the workpiece includes means for moving said translating device over the workstation such that said workpiece center is over said workstation center. 12. The system of claim 10 in which said means for measuring the position of said workpiece includes means for capturing an image of the workpiece. 13. A system for correcting eccentricity and rotational error of a substantially circular workpiece, in which the workpiece is moved to a pad using a translating device with an end effector, the system comprising: means for determining the rotational position and position of the workpiece center, said means including a machine vision system which captures an image of the workpiece while it is on the end effector, and computes the rotational position and position of the workpiece center therefrom; a multiple-fingered pedestal rotatable member at the workstation, having a home position and a center; means for lifting said rotatable member above the pad surface before it is pre-rotated, and for withdrawing said rotatable member below the pad surface after said rotatable member is rotated back to its home position; means, responsive to said means for determining, for pre-rotating said rotatable member from its home position an amount sufficient to correct workpiece rotational error; means, responsive to said means for determining, for causing the translating device to place the workpiece on said rotatable member such that the workpiece center is at the center of said rotatable member, to correct eccentricity; and means for rotating said rotatable member back to its home position, to correct rotational error, wherein the eccentricity and rotational error of the workpiece are corrected without transferring the workpiece to an alignment station. 14. The system of claim 13 in which said pedestal includes three fingers equally spaced about the center of said pedestal, and projecting radially therefrom, and in which said pad has a plurality of radial slots for receiving said fingers of said pedestal, to allow said pedestal to be withdrawn below the surface of said workpiece-receiving pad. 15. The system of claim 13 in which said machine vision system includes an image capture means on one side of the workpiece, and a light source on the other side of the workpiece, to better define the workpiece periphery. 