A system and method for order packing forms a mixed pallet or a mixed multi-pack. In this system, a first embodiment utilizes a high volume module, a low volume module, a sorting and packing module, a prepackage module and a mixed palletizer module for picking, sorting, packaging and palletizing articles. In a second embodiment of the present invention, a bulk load can be fed via a carrousel to a bank of elevators. A transfer device will load different levels of the elevators which can then be moved adjacent a discharge conveyor. A lane is provided in this discharge conveyor for each of the elevators in the bank of elevators. The different levels of the elevators are positioned adjacent the lanes and can discharge articles onto the conveyor in order to form groups of the same or different types of articles. Many different types of articles including beverage containers such as cans, bottles or beverage boxes can use this system. A pallet is formed from the same or different sized package and different varieties of articles can be placed within a single package.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for order packing comprising: a supply of individual articles; a packaging subsystem for packaging the individual articles into different sized, containers, the different sized containers having a different number of individual articles therein, individual articles being singularly supplied to the packaging subsystem; a palletizer for palletizing the different sized containers, different sized containers being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer; and a conveyor system for at least transporting the articles from the supply to the packaging subsystem and for transporting the containers from the packaging subsystem to the palletizer. 2. The system for order packing as recited in claim 1, wherein the packaging subsystem comprises a plurality of wrappers for wrapping the individual articles into a container, each of the wrappers wrapping one size of containers, the conveyor system interconnects the plurality of wrappers. 3. The system for order packing as recited in claim 2, wherein the conveyor system supplies the articles from the supply and includes a plurality of different conveyors within the packaging subsystem and wherein the packaging subsystem further comprising at least one laner, the at least one laner diverts articles incoming from the supply on the conveyor system to one of the plurality of different conveyors in the packaging subsystem. 4. The system for order packing as recited in claim 3, wherein the conveyor system supplies the articles from the supply to the packaging subsystem along a single conveyor and wherein the single conveyor feeds the articles to the at least one laner. 5. The system for order packing as recited in claim 4, wherein the at least one laner includes a plurality of laners, the different conveyors in the packaging subsystem feed articles to and from the plurality of wrappers whereby each of the wrappers has an upstream and downstream side and wherein each of the plurality of wrappers has at least one laner on the upstream side thereof. 6. The system for order packing as recited in claim 5, further comprising a hi-cone packer upstream of at least one of the plurality of wrappers, one of the different conveyors in the packaging subsystem supplying articles to the hi-cone packer and another one of the different conveyors feeding articles from the hi-cone packer to the at least one downstream wrapper, the hi-cone packer placing a holder around a plurality of articles fed therethrough. 7. The system for order packing as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least one of a high volume module and a low volume module as the supply of individual articles. 8. The system for order packing as recited in claim 7, further comprising a prepackaged module for supplying preformed packs, the preformed packs containing a plurality of articles, the conveyor system interconnects both the packaging subsystem and the prepackaged module to the palletizer. 9. The system for order packing as recited in claim 1, further comprising a prepackaged module for supplying preformed packs, the preformed packs containing a plurality of articles, the conveyor system interconnects both the packaging subsystem and the prepackaged module to the palletizer. 10. A method for order packing comprising the steps of: supplying individual articles to a conveyor system; transporting the individual articles on the conveyor system to a packaging subsystem; singularly feeding the individual articles to the packaging subsystem; packaging the individual articles in the packaging subsystem into containers of different size, different sized containers having a different number of individual articles therein; transporting the different sized containers from the packaging subsystem to a palletizer; and placing the containers onto pallets in the palletizer, different sized containers being placeable on a same pallet by the palletizer. 11. The method for order packing as recited in claim 10, wherein the step of packaging comprises wrapping the individual articles into a container with a wrapper, a plurality of wrappers being provided and each of the wrappers wrapping one size of containers. 12. The method for order packing as recited in claim 11, further comprising the step of diverting articles during the step of transporting, the articles being supplied during the step of supplying being diverted to different downstream conveyors during the step of diverting by at least one laner. 13. The method for order packing as recited in claim 12, wherein the step of supplying individual articles includes the step of using a single conveyor to feed the articles to the at least one laner. 14. The method for order packing as recited in claim 13, wherein the at least one laner includes a plurality of laners, the method further includes the step of feeding articles to and from the plurality of wrappers with different conveyors whereby each of the wrappers has an upstream and downstream side and wherein each of the plurality of wrappers has at least one laner on the upstream side thereof. 15. The method for order packing as recited in claim 14, further comprising the step of placing a holder around a plurality of articles fed to at least one of the wrappers, a hi-cone packer being provided upstream of the at least one of the wrappers for placing the holder on the plurality of articles. 16. The method for order packing as recited in claim 10, further comprising the step of using at least one of a high volume module and a low volume module to supply the individual articles during the step of supplying. 17. The method for order packing as recited in claim 16, further comprising the step of supplying preformed packs from a prepackaged module, the preformed packs containing a plurality of articles, the step of transporting further comprises transporting both the different sized containers and the preformed packs from the prepackaged module to the palletizer. 18. The method for order packing as recited in claim 10, further comprising the step of supplying preformed packs from a prepackaged module, the preformed packs containing a plurality of articles, the step of transporting further comprises transporting both the different sized containers and the preformed packs from the prepackaged module to the palletizer. 