The invention concerns an automatic device and method for producing a hollow body from blanks obtained from a web of material, in particular, a textile material. The hollow body is intended to be used for an airbag or as a cover for a seat or cushion. The device includes a main part (16) in the form of a plate which is self-enclosed in a ring-like manner, two side plates (18, 19) matching the sides of the main part (16), and one or two sewing devices (48, 59). Suction openings (24) connecting to a suction device can be used for securing the blanks to the inner walls of the main part and the side plates, or the blanks can be drawn in electrostatically. A moving device guides the two side plates (18, 19) from the exterior into a position inside the two inner edges (32) of the main part (16) and back out again after the blanks have been sewn. Two guides per automatic sewing device (48,49) can be provided in the vicinity of the edges of the main part or of the side plates.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for fabricating a hollow body from blanks, obtained from at least one web of material comprising: a) a main part in the form of a ring-like, self-contained plate, b) two side plates, the contours of which match those of the main part, and c) suction orifices distributed over inner walls of the main part and the side plates, said suction orifices being connected to at least one suction device for firmly holding, by suction, blanks disposed on said inner walls. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein the inner walls of said main part and of said side plates are operatively coupled to an electrostatic generator for being electrostatically charged for attracting and firmly holding the blanks. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein a movement device is provided which is actuatable at least one of by hand and automatically and which serves to guide each of said side plates from a position disposed outwardly from said main part into a position in which outer edges thereof are disposed within an inner edge of a side rim of said main part and back outwardly again. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein a guide for an automatic stitcher is defined at least one of (1) along outer sides of and adjacent a periphery of said side plates and (2) at an outer side of and adjacent rims of said main part. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said guide is a dovetail-shaped groove. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said guide is a dovetail-shaped rail. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein a) a sewing machine having a stitching point is provided, and b) said main part and side plates are movable in common with respect to the stitching point in a direction of a seam to be produced by said sewing machine. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said sewing machine and said at least one suction device are operatively coupled to a control device for sequential operation. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein for precise registration of the blanks on the inner wall of the main part and on the inner walls of said side plates, registration indicia are provided on rims of at least one of the main part, the side plates and the blanks. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein a single automatic stitcher is attached to a robotic device arm mounted fixed in location such that for fabricating at least one seam, it is guided around a rim of one of said side plates and then around a rim of the other of said side plates. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein two automatic stitchers are attached to robotic parts guided horizontally and vertically such that for fabricating at least one seam, they are guided around a respective rim of each of said side plates. 12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein at least one automatic stitcher is attached to a respective robotic device that is guided reciprocatingly in a circle within a circular ring-shaped guide that is fixed in location. 13. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein a) said main part is fixed in location and provided with a first suction conduit, b) second and third suction conduits extend, respectively, outwards from said side plate and also serve for swiveling said side plates in and out of said main part, c) said suction conduits of said side plates each including a tube, which in the vicinity of a rim of said side plate includes a bulge section for accommodating a stitching device and d) said bulge section is rotatable through about 180.degree. such that said bulge section enables said stitching device to travel around along the entire side plate rim. 14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a sewing machine mounted so as to be shiftable in at least one plane with respect to said main part and said side plates, said sewing machine having a stitching point, said main part and said side plates being movable in common with respect to the stitching point, whereby the stitching point can follow side rims of said main part as said main part is turned relative to said sewing machine. 15. A method for fabricating a hollow body from blanks obtained from a web of material, comprising: providing an apparatus for fabricating a hollow body, said apparatus including a main part in the form of a ring-like, self-contained plate, and two side plates, the contours of which generally correspond to those of the main part, providing a main part blank generally corresponding in shape to an inner wall of said main part but wider than said inner wall to define a seam allowance, placing said main part blank on said inner wall of said main part and firmly holding said main part blank in place by at least one of a suction force and an electrostatic force, providing two side part blanks generally corresponding in shape to inner walls of said side plates but larger than said side plates by one seam allowance on all sides thereof, placing said side part blanks on said inner walls of said side parts and firmly holding said side plate blanks in place by at least one of a suction force an electrostatic force, guiding each of said side plates up to a rim of said main part so that said seam allowances of said side plate blanks firmly held in place at said side plates surroundingly locate at an inner side of said seam allowance of said main part blank firmly held at said main part, stitching said seam allowance of said main part blank to said seam allowances of said side port blanks to form a hollow body, and discontinuing said at least one of said suction force and electrostatic force and retracting at least one of said side plates from said main part and extracting the hollow body. 16. The method as set forth in claim 15, wherein said blanks are placed on said main part and said side plates using registration indicia provided thereon. 17. The method as set forth in claim 15, wherein after said stitching step to form said hollow body, compressed air is blown into the hollow body within the assembled main and side parts to test seams produced by said stitching step. 