A light source for generating a light beam which can be focused in many different directions or varied in intensity under control of a user's hand. A light sensor for detecting the focused light beam and generating a sensor signal based on either the light beam's area of coverage on the light sensor or the light beam's intensity. A modulation apparatus for receiving the sensor signal and in response modulating a computer variable and/or an electronic signal. A freeze circuit for inhibiting modulation when the sensor signal either exceeds or falls below a predetermined maximum or minimum level.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for optically modulating computer data and electronic signals, the apparatus comprising: a light source, for generating a light beam which can be focused in a plurality of directions; a light sensor, optically coupled to the light source, for generating a sensor signal directly proportional to each of the plurality of directions of the light beam; and a modulating means, coupled to the light sensor, for modulating a variable in response to the sensor signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein when the light beam is focused in one of the plurality of directions, the light beam is concentrated on one of a plurality of areas on the light sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the light source comprises a plurality of light sources each generating an individual light frequency; and the light sensor comprises a plurality of light sensors for receiving each individual light frequency. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the light sensor comprises a plurality of light sensors, each disposed to receive a portion of the light, for generating a plurality of sensor signals in response to the portion of the light detected from the light source; and the modulating means, modulates variables in response to the plurality of sensor signals. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a display, coupled to the modulating means, for displaying a representation of a three dimensional image; wherein variables represent an X-cursor-position, a Y-cursor-position, and a Z-cursor-position on the three dimensional image on the display. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a robotic device, coupled to the modulating means, operating in a three dimensional space; wherein variables represent a right/left motion, an up/down motion, and a forward/backward motion in the three dimensional space. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a virtual reality device, coupled to the modulating means, operating in a virtual space; wherein variables represent a plurality of data variables in the virtual space. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the modulating means further comprises a software module for modulating a magnitude of the variable based on a rate of change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the modulating means further comprises a software module for modulating a magnitude of the variable based on a change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the modulating means further comprises a software module for modulating a rate of change of the variable based on the change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a freeze unit, coupled to the modulating means, for preventing the modulating means from modulating the variable when changes in the sensor signal are greater than a predetermined maximum change. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a freeze unit, coupled to the modulating means, for preventing the modulating means from modulating the variable when changes in the sensor signal are less than a predetermined minimum change. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a reflector, optically coupling the light source to the light sensor, for modulating the light received by the light sensor in response to movement of the reflector. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a plurality of reflectors, each optically coupling the light source to the light sensor, for modulating the light received by the light sensor in response to movement of the reflectors. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a shell, flexibly coupling the reflector to the light sensor, so that the reflector may reflect light to different portions of the light sensor. 16. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: a movement means; and a strap, coupling the reflector to the movement means, so that the reflector may reflect light to different portions of the light sensor. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the variables are computer data values. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the variables are computer display parameters. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the variables are electronic signals. 20. An apparatus for optically modulating computer data and electronic signals, the apparatus comprising: a light source, for generating a light beam with a plurality of light energies; a light sensor, coupled to the light source, for generating a sensor signal directly proportional to each of the plurality of light energies of the light beam; and a modulating means, coupled to the light sensor, for modulating a variable in response to the sensor signal. 21. A computer-implemented method for optically modulating computer data and electronic signals, comprising the steps of: generating a light beam which can be focused in a plurality of directions; optically coupling the light beam to a light sensor; generating a sensor signal directly proportional to each of the plurality of directions of the light beam; and modulating a variable in response to the sensor signal. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the modulating step includes the step of modulating a magnitude of the variable based on a rate of change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the modulating step includes the step of modulating a magnitude of the variable based on a change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein the modulating step includes the step of modulating a rate of change of the variable based on the change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 25. The method of claim 21 further including the step of inhibiting modulation of the variable when changes in the sensor signal are greater than a predetermined maximum change. 26. The method of claim 21 further including the step of inhibiting modulation of the variable when changes in the sensor signal are less than a predetermined minimum change. 27. A computer-implemented method for optically modulating computer data and electronic signals, comprising the steps of: generating a light beam with a plurality of light energies; optically coupling the light beam to a light sensor; generating a sensor signal directly proportional to each of the plurality of light energies of the light beam; and modulating a variable in response to the sensor signal. 28. An apparatus for optically modulating computer data and electronic signals, the apparatus comprising: means for generating a light beam which can be focused in a plurality of directions; means for optically coupling the means for generating a light beam to a means for sensing the light beam; means for generating a sensor signal directly proportional to each of the plurality of directions of the light beam; and means for modulating a variable in response to the sensor signal. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the means for modulating includes means for modulating a magnitude of the variable based on a rate of change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 30. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the means for modulating includes means for modulating a magnitude of the variable based on a change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the means for modulating includes means for modulating a rate of change of the variable based on the change in a magnitude of the sensor signal. 32. The apparatus of claim 28 further including means for inhibiting modulation of the variable when changes in the sensor signal are greater than a predetermined maximum change. 33. The apparatus of claim 28 further including means for inhibiting modulation of the variable when changes in the sensor signal are less than a predetermined minimum change. 34. An apparatus for optically modulating computer data and electronic signals, the apparatus comprising: means for generating a light beam with a plurality of light energies; means for optically coupling the means for generating a light beam to a means for sensing the light beam; means for generating a sensor signal directly proportional to each of the plurality of light energies of the light beam; and means for modulating a variable in response to the sensor signal. 