A grasping apparatus (10) has multiple fingers (64) joined within slots (56) in the face of a moving piston (50) within a fluid cylinder (20). As the piston (50) moves, cams (62) joined to the fingers (64) are rotated so as to close or open the fingers (64) which are radially mounted. Once actuated the piston (50) is returned to its relaxed position by a spring (70) when fluid pressure is released.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid actuated, articulated grasping apparatus comprising: a fluid cylinder having a fluid conduit means for admitting fluid into a first side of the fluid cylinder; an actuating rod axially positioned within the fluid cylinder, an attachment portion at a proximal end of the actuating rod extending outwardly from an end wall of the fluid cylinder and held thereon by an engaging fluid inlet and securement means; a piston, adapted for fluid forced linear motion within the fluid cylinder, the position providing an axial aperture for tight-fitting sliding engagement along the actuating rod; a plurality of radially oriented grasping means, each of the grasping means providing a cam portion and a finger portion, the cam portion being pivotally joined with a distal end of the actuating rod and pivotally and slidingly joined with the piston in such manner that as the piston moves along the actuating rod away from the end wall of the fluid cylinder the finger portions of the plurality of grasping means converge, and conversely, when the piston moves toward the end wall of the fluid cylinder, the finger portions of the grasping means diverge; a spring biasing means fitted about the actuating rod and adapted for urging the piston toward the end wall of the fluid cylinder; such that fluid injected into the fluid cylinder through the fluid conduit means moves the piston away from the end wall of the fluid cylinder and compresses the spring biasing means, while when fluid is allowed to exit the fluid cylinder through the fluid conduit means, the spring biasing means forces the piston toward the end wall of the fluid cylinder. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cam portion and the finger portion of each of the grasping means are formed integrally. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the finger portion of each of the grasping means is adapted for positional adjustment on the respective cam portion of each of the grasping means so as to enable the grasping means to adapt to a required range of grasping articulation. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a cover plate adapted for engaging an open end of the fluid cylinder, the cover plate providing a radial slot means for accommodating movement of the grasping means therein and an annular shoulder for positioning the spring biasing means. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the proximal end of the actuating rod and the engaging fluid inlet and securement means are joined by a screw thread means. 6. A fluid actuated, articulated grasping apparatus comprising: a fluid cylinder having a fluid conduit means for admitting fluid into a first side of the fluid cylinder; an actuating rod axially positioned within the fluid cylinder; a piston, adapted for fluid forced linear motion within the fluid cylinder, the piston providing an axial aperture for tight-fitting sliding engagement along the actuating rod; a plurality of radially oriented grasping means, each of the grasping means providing a cam portion and a finger portion, the cam portion being pivotally joined with a distal end of the actuating rod and pivotally and slidingly joined with the piston in such manner that as the piston moves along the actuating rod away from the end wall of the fluid cylinder the finger portions of the plurality of grasping means converge, and conversely, when the piston moves toward the end wall of the fluid cylinder, the finger portions of the grasping means diverge; a spring biasing means positioned and adapted for urging the piston toward the end wall of the fluid cylinder; such that fluid injected into the fluid cylinder through the fluid conduit means moves the piston away from the end wall of the fluid cylinder and compresses the spring biasing means, while when fluid is allowed to exit the fluid cylinder through the fluid conduit means, the spring biasing means forces the piston toward the end wall of the fluid cylinder. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the cam portion and the finger portion of each of the grasping means are formed integrally. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the finger portion of each of the grasping means is adapted for positional adjustment on the respective cam portion of each of the grasping means so as to enable the grasping means to adapt to a required range of grasping articulation. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a cover plate adapted for engaging an open end of the fluid cylinder, the cover plate providing a radial slot means for accommodating movement of the grasping means therein. 