A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. The rotary indexing device includes two coaxial cam dials that provide rotation and reciprocation of the universal gripper, and an off-set drive is provided at two locations for laterally off setting the radial reciprocation of the universal gripper. This off set is necessary to enable the universal gripper to place and receive needles in a fixed jaw having a die opening or needle gripping opening formed therein. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a needle singulating apparatus for receiving a plurality of randomly arranged surgical needles, said apparatus including a sliding surface for assisting an operator in singulating surgical needles for transfer to a precise positioning apparatus; (b) a precise positioning apparatus for receiving singulated needles from said needle singulating apparatus and precisely positioning the singulated needle at a first predetermined location; (c) a universal gripper for receiving each precisely positioned and singulated needle at said first predetermined location and indexing said needle in a predetermined orientation from said first predetermined location through successive locations for sequential processing at subsequent predetermined locations, (d) a suture cutting station located at a second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle; (e) a swage station for swaging said surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly, whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a plurality of oriented surgical needle and suture assemblies. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said universal gripper means includes an indexing means for rotating the gripper to each of said successive stations and means to impart a compound reciprocal movement from a first retracted position to a second extended position at each of said successive stations. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said universal gripper means includes first and second jaws for engaging said surgical needle, said jaws having a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for releasing said surgical needle. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said universal gripper means is horizontally translated as it is reciprocated into a gripping position to enable said jaws to grip said surgical needle in said oriented position. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said indexing means conveys said needle to said second location with said universal gripping means engaging said needle in said oriented position. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said swage station includes first and second swaging die means, said first swaging die means having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die means having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said second swaging die means is positioned next to said first swaging die means to form a swage die opening for receiving said needle from said universal gripper. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said first swaging die means is fixed in position and said second swaging die means is laterally movable toward and away from said first fixed swage die means. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said first swaging die means is relatively fixed in position and adjustable in position between swaging to adjust the swage compression imparted to said needle during swaging. 9. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said swage station includes a spring biasing means to provide a force sufficient to move said second swage die toward said first swage die to grip the needle without deforming said suture receiving opening of said needle after receiving the needle from the universal gripper. 10. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said second means located at said second predetermined location comprises: (a) a drawing frame, said frame having at least one longitudinal member and defining a drawing axis parallel thereto; (b) means for feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (c) first and second gripping means for gripping said indefinite length suture strand and drawing it along said drawing axis, said first gripping means mounted for reciprocal movement on said at least one longitudinal member; (d) means for cutting said indefinite length suture strand; and (e) said second gripping means reciprocal to a start position along said drawing axis and below said cutting means, while said first drawing means is drawing said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutting means, whereby said indefinite length suture strand is inserted within said suture receiving opening of said needle and cut to a predetermined length by said cutting means after said second gripping means has gripped said indefinite length suture strand at said start position. 11. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 further comprising a computer control means for said first and second drive motors to draw said indefinite length suture strand to said predetermined distance beyond said cutting means. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 further comprising a moveable carrier mounted for selective movement along said drawing axis, said movable carrier having a heating means for tipping said suture mounted thereon. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said computer control means further comprises at least one sensor means for determining the position of said moveable carrier. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said feeding means further comprises means for automatically tensioning said indefinite length suture according to a predefined suture type during at least the drawing and cutting thereof. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein each of said first and second gripping means further include retractable gripping elements having a first engaged position and a second retracted position, wherein one of said first and second gripping means traverses the drawing axis on a draw stroke with gripping elements engaged, and the other of said first and second gripping means reciprocates along the same axis with the gripping elements retracted to avoid mechanical interference therewith. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said means for heat treating a portion of said indefinite length strand of suture material includes a means for imparting a predetermined tension to the indefinite length suture at said treatment zone to form a tipped portion in said indefinite length strand. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said heat treating means is mounted on said movable carrier remote from said cutting means. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said heat treating means is heating a portion of said strand at a position remote from said to allow for partial hardening of said suture prior to cutting thereof. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said cutting means cuts said stiffened strand remote from said treatment zone to create a suture strand of definite length supported by said first gripping means and a suture strand of indefinite length supported by said second gripping means, with stiffened portions above each gripping means. 20. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a universal gripper for receiving a surgical needle at a first predetermined location and gripping said needle in a predetermined orientation for transport through a plurality of successive locations for sequential processing at said successive locations, (b) a suture drawing and cutting station located at a second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said surgical needle; (c) a swage station for swaging said surgical needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly, said swaging station having a first swaging die fixed in position and a second swaging die which is laterally movable toward and away from said first fixed swage die to swage said surgical station; (d) an indexing means for rotating the universal gripper to each of said successive stations, said indexing means having first and second means which together impart a compound reciprocal movement from a first retracted transport position to a second extended processing position at each of said successive stations, whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are formed into a plurality of oriented surgical needle and suture assemblies. 21. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said first swaging die has an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die has an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said second swaging die means is positioned next to said first swaging die means to form a swage die opening for receiving said needle. 22. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said first swaging die means is relatively fixed in position and said second swaging die means is laterally movable toward and away from said first fixed swage die means to swage said surgical needle. 23. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said swage die opening is axially aligned with said drawing axis at said second predetermined position, with said universal gripper means in said retracted position at said predetermined position prior to positioning said surgical needle within said swage die opening, and is extended and translated in said compound movement to position said suture receiving opening of said needle in said swage die opening prior to swaging. 24. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said third means for swaging further includes a funnel guide positioned at an insertion zone between a free end of said definite length suture strand and said suture receiving opening of said needle, said funnel die means including a tapered opening axially aligned with said swage die opening for directing said free end of said suture strand into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned therein. 25. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said funnel guide means further includes a registration means for resiliently aligning it with at least one of said first and second swaging dies. 26. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 25 wherein said funnel guide means includes a first fixed suture alignment die having an end thereof defining a portion of said tapered opening, and a second movable suture alignment die having an end thereof defining another portion of said tapered opening, wherein said second movable suture alignment die is positioned next to said first fixed suture alignment die to form said tapered opening. 27. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said tapered opening has a suture exit diameter that is larger than the diameter of said suture strand and smaller than the diameter of said suture receiving opening defined in the needle. 28. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 27 wherein said first gripping means is advanced along said suture drawing axis to direct said free end of said suture strand through said funnel guide means and into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned in said swage die opening. 29. The suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 28 wherein said swaging station includes a drive means for moving said second swage die means laterally away from said first swage die means prior to positioning said needle within said swage die opening. 30. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 29 wherein said drive means includes a spring biasing means to provide a force sufficient to move said second swage die toward said first swage die to grip the needle without deforming said suture receiving opening of said needle when said surgical needle is positioned in said swage die opening. 31. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 30, wherein said drive means includes an air cylinder means for supplying adequate force to thrust said movable swage die toward said first swage die to accomplish swaging of said needle gripped therebetween. 32. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 31, wherein said second swage die means is thrust towards said first die means for a swaging stroke of a predetermined distance to accomplish said swaging. 33. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 32, wherein said drive means includes a stop for terminating the motion of said second swage die during said swaging stroke. 34. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein universal gripper further includes first and second jaws for gripping the surgical needle, wherein the jaws of the universal gripper are opened to a non-engaging position for relaxing said surgical needle in said swage die opening after gripping but before swaging thereof. 35. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said swaging station further includes means for adjusting the position of said first swaging die to change the amount of swage deformation occurring to said suture receiving opening during swaging thereof. 36. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 35 wherein said first fixed swaging die includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof, said means for changing the position of said first fixed swaging die means including a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower to laterally move said wedge follower and said first fixed swaging die means in accordance with transverse movement of said wedge assembly. 37. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 36 wherein said transverse movement of said wedge assembly is controllable by a servomotor means for rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch, said rotation of said swage adjust screw being translated into linear motion of said wedge assembly. 38. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 35 wherein a computer control means determines and controls the optimum positioning of said first swaging die to avoid over-swaging and under-swaging said needle. 