A system and method for controlling the navigation of surface based vehicle uses a route that is obtained by manually driving the vehicle over the route to collect data defining the absolute position of the vehicle at various positions along the route. The collected data is smoothed to provide a consistent route to be followed. The smoothed data is subsequently used to automatically guide the vehicle over the route.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling the navigation of a surface based vehicle over a route, the method including: manually driving the vehicle over the route to collect driven data comprising the absolute position of the vehicle along the route relative to the earth's surface; smoothing out said driven data to produce smoothed data comprising a consistent path; and using said smoothed data to automatically navigate the vehicle over the route. 2. The navigation method of claim 1, wherein said step of smoothing out said driven data includes the step of: integrating said driven data to smooth said driven data so that measured vehicle position, heading and curvature are consistent along the route. 3. A system for controlling the navigation of a surface based vehicle of the type having an instantaneous center to which all motions can be referenced, exhibiting either oversteer or understeer characteristics over a route, comprising: means for manually driving the vehicle over the route to collect driven data comprising the absolute position of the vehicle along the route relative to the earth's surface; means for smoothing out said driven data to produce smoothed data comprising a consistent path; and means for using said smoothed data to automatically navigate the vehicle over the route. 4. The navigation system of claim 3, wherein said means for smoothing out said driven data further comprises: means for integrating said driven data to smooth said driven data so that measured vehicle position, heading and curvature are consistent along the route. 