A device including a cavity defined by walls (17) having a feed opening (18) and an outlet (19) for the fluid material (m). The outlet (19) is connected to a nozzle (20). The device is suitable for measuring, controlling and depositing the material (m).
Claims I claim: 1. A device for measuring and regulating the flow rate of a viscous fluid material (m), said device comprising: a) gun equipped with a cavity delimited by at least one wall (17), said cavity incorporating a fluid-feed opening (18) and an outlet orifice (19) emptying into a deposition nozzle (20) integral with said at least one wall, and b) a mechanism for transporting the material to the nozzle, c) wherein the mechanism for transporting the material is capable of regulating the flow rate of the material and is a gear mechanism disposed in said cavity. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the gear mechanism comprises pinions (33, 34) having axes substantially perpendicular to an axis of the outlet orifice of the cavity. 3. A device according to claim 1, wherein the gear mechanism is driven by an electric motor (21). 4. A device according to claim 1, further comprising two pressure bleeds (27, 28) disposed upstream and downstream from the cavity. 5. A device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one wall of the cavity produces heat using cartridges (23, 24) housed in holes. 6. A device according to claim 1, further comprising a heating plate (22a) disposed on the gun. 7. A device according to claim 3, further comprising a heating element (22) attached to one of the nozzle and the motor. 8. A device according to claim 1, wherein the nozzle comprises an extrusion orifice incorporating, at an end thereof (29), an adjustable closing/opening valve (30). 9. A robot manipulator, comprising, a) a mobile body (11), b) a jointed arm (10) mounted on said body, and incorporating, at an end thereof, a revolving wrist (9), and c) a device for measuring and regulating the flow rate of a viscous fluid material, as defined in claim 1, attached to said wrist. 