The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing residues from an interior surface of a processing chamber, said method comprising the steps of: introducing fluorine from a first cleaning gas into said processing chamber during a first time period, wherein said first introducing step cleans the residues from an interior surface of said processing chamber; introducing a second cleaning gas into said processing chamber during a second time period to form clean reactants by a heat-induced chemical reaction between said fluorine and material from said second cleaning gas without in situ plasma excitation; maintaining a temperature of greater than about 550.degree. C. and less than about 600.degree. C. with a heater in said processing chamber during said first and second introducing steps; and evacuating said residues from said processing chamber during said first time period and said clean reactants during said second time period. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said processing chamber is coupled to a remote plasma system. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said remote plasma system is a remote microwave plasma system. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said second cleaning gas introducing step includes steps of: introducing the second cleaning gas into the remote microwave plasma system; and radiating the second cleaning gas with microwave energy to form a plasma containing said material in said remote microwave plasma system to said processing chamber. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said second cleaning gas comprises NH.sub.3 and said clean reactants include HF and an ammonium fluoride compound. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said second cleaning gas comprises H.sub.2 and said clean reactants include HF. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein said first cleaning gas includes NF.sub.3 and said interior surface comprises. 8. The method of claim 2 wherein said second cleaning gas comprises SiH.sub.4 and said clean reactants include SiF.sub.4. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein said first cleaning gas introducing step includes steps of: introducing the first cleaning gas into the remote plasma system; radiating the first cleaning gas with microwave energy to decompose the first cleaning gas into fluorine; and providing the fluorine to said processing chamber. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said second cleaning gas introducing step includes steps of: introducing the second cleaning gas into the remote microwave plasma system; and radiating the second cleaning gas with microwave energy to form a plasma containing said material in said remote microwave plasma system. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said second time period occurs substantially immediately after said first time period. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said first introducing step cleans the residues from said interior surface of said processing chamber without an in-situ plasma in said processing chamber. 