A dual-arm wafer hand-off assembly includes a pair of pickup arms for transferring wafers within a wafer processing system. The two pickup arms are adapted to move such that the wafer on one of the arms can be positioned over the other arm and handed off. In one version, a Bernoulli-style wand translates along a linear guideway and may be positioned over a paddle-style pickup arm. The wafer carried by the Bernoulli wand can be handed off to the paddle by shutting off the flow of gas from the Bernoulli wand jets. The two pickup arms may be mounted on linear slides and adapted to translate between a load/unload chamber and a processing chamber, or the guideway may be adapted to rotate to allow transfer of wafers to multiple processing chambers in a cluster system. One of the pickup arms is preferably an all-quartz Bernoulli-style pickup arm having a proximal arm portion and a distal wand. The arm portion is formed by a pair of juxtaposed plates with a gas passage therethrough, and the distal wand is also formed by a pair of juxtaposed plates with a plurality of gas passages therethrough. The arm portion and the wand are fused together at their junction region. A wafer stop element is formed by a single quartz rod and is clipped to the arm portion to present a plurality of wafer stop pegs at a proximal periphery of the wand. The wafer stop element may be rapidly installed or removed without fasteners or bonding.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer processing apparatus comprising: walls defining an input chamber to receive a wafer from an external source; walls defining a handling chamber adjacent the input chamber; a first port between the input chamber and handling chamber; walls defining a processing chamber adjacent the handling chamber; a second port between the processing chamber and handling chamber; and a wafer transfer assembly located in the handling chamber having a guideway and two wafer transfer arms moveable in a linear path on said guideway, a first arm being extensible on said guideway from a retracted position in the handling chamber through the first port into the input chamber and retractable into the handling chamber into said retracted position, and a second arm being extensible on said guideway from a retracted position in the handling chamber through the second port into the processing chamber, the arms including end portions configured to carry a wafer, with the end portions being in overlapping position when said arms are in their retracted positions so as to enable the end portions to transfer a wafer from the end portion of one arm to the end portion of the other arm in the handling chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said end portion of the first arm includes a paddle adapted to move beneath a wafer in the input chamber and physically lift and transfer it into the handling chamber, and said end portion of the second arm includes a pickup head which is aligned above the paddle when the second arm is in its retracted position in the handling chamber, the pickup head being adapted to lift a wafer from the paddle utilizing gas flow and a Bernoulli principle. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the end portion of the second arm includes a pickup head supported in cantilevered fashion on a distal end of the second arm, the pickup head and the portion of the second arm which extends into the processing chamber being made of quartz. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the second arm is formed by a pair of elongated quartz plates and the pickup head comprises an upper and lower quartz plate connected to the distal end of the arm plates, the lower head plate having a plurality of outlets therefrom, and the arm plates and the head plates defining gas passages for ducting gas into the head to flow out of the outlets to provide a gas flow for lifting a wafer from the first arm. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the second arm includes a wafer stop removably mounted to the forward end of the second arm, the stop including forward curved elements adjacent to the wand head and located to limit rearward movement of a wafer towards the second arm when it is being lifted or transported by the pickup head. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the wafer stop includes resilient quartz mounting elements that help retain the stop on the second pickup arm without fasteners or solid bonds. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said guideway is rotatably mounted so as to permit the wafer transfer assembly to be utilized in transferring wafers to and from additional chambers that are aligned to accommodate the linear movement of the transfer arms on the guideway. 8. A semiconductor wafer processing apparatus comprising: walls defining a first chamber for receiving a wafer; walls defining a second chamber for receiving a wafer; a guideway defining a linear path between said chambers; a first wafer transfer arm having a rear end mounted on said guideway in a manner to enable the first transfer arm to move in a linear path from a retracted position to an extended position in which a forward end of said first transfer arm is positioned within said first chamber and is adapted to transfer a wafer into or out of the first chamber; a second transfer arm having a rear end mounted on said guideway to enable the second arm to move from a retracted position into an extended position in which a forward end of the second arm extends into said second chamber, said forward end of the second transfer arm being adapted to transfer a wafer into or out of the second chamber; and said arms being arranged such that when the arms are in their retracted positions, the forward ends of the arms are in closely spaced vertical relation to enable a wafer to be transferred from the forward end of one arm to the forward end of the other arm. 