The invention is directed to a remote center positioner used to support an instrument and provide a center of spherical rotation, remote from any bearings or mechanical supports, at a desired location of the instrument. The remote center positioner is particularly useful in laparoscopic surgery to constrain a surgical instrument to move around a fixed center of rotation remote from any bearings or mechanical supports and coincident with an entry incision in the abdominal wall.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing a surgical procedure on a target site of a patient comprising: providing a first linkage pivotally mounted to an established base about a first axis; introducing an end effector on a distal portion of a surgical instrument to a position adjacent the target site of the patient; holding a proximal portion of the surgical instrument in a predetermined position with a second linkage such that a desired remote spherical center of rotation on the proximal portion of the instrument is centered on a portion of the instrument and lies on a second axis perpendicular to and intersecting the first axis; pivotally connecting the second linkage to the first linkage to constrain movement of the instrument such that the instrument moves in a parallel-plane relationship to the first linkage; manipulating the instrument to perform the surgical procedure, the first and second linkages maintaining the remote center of spherical rotation on the instrument in a fixed position relative to the established base; and pivoting the end effector about first and second internal axes located along the distal portion of the instrument within the patient body while manipulating tissue with the end effector, the end effector having a first degree of freedom about the first internal axis relative to the proximal portion of the surgical instrument, the end effector also having a second degree of freedom about the second internal axis relative to the proximal portion of the surgical instrument. 2. The method according to claim 1 further including translating the surgical instrument along the instrument axis. 3. The method according to claim 1 further including rotating the surgical instrument about the instrument axis. 4. The method according to claim 1 further including actuating an end effector on the distal portion of the surgical instrument. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the actuating step comprises opening and closing jaws on the end effector of the instrument. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a proximal drive motor pivots the end effector about a pivotal joint, the pivotal joint defining the first internal axis. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein pivoting of the end effector about the first internal axis moves an intermediate link relative to the proximal portion of the surgical instrument about the pivotal joint, and wherein pivoting the end effector about the second internal axis moves the end effector relative to the intermediate link, the intermediate link coupling the end effector to the proximal portion of the surgical instrument. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein pivoting the end effector about the second internal axis rotates the end effector axially about the second internal axis, the second internal axis extending from the pivotal joint distally toward the end effector. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second internal axes are defined by rotational joints between engaging rigid instrument elements. 10. A method for performing an endoscopic surgical procedure on a target site within a body cavity of a patient comprising: providing a first linkage fixed to an established base; pivotally mounting the first linkage for rotation about a first axis; introducing a distal portion of a surgical instrument through a percutaneous penetration into a body cavity within the patient; holding a proximal portion of the surgical instrument in a predetermined position with a second linkage such that a desired remote spherical center of rotation on the proximal portion of the instrument is centered on a portion of the instrument, lies on a second axis perpendicular to and intersecting the first axis and is coincident with the percutaneous penetration in the patient; and pivotally connecting the second linkage to the first linkage to maintain the remote center of spherical rotation in the desired location upon movement of the first linkage and the second linkage in the course of manipulation of tissue by a surgeon performing the endoscopic surgical procedure; wherein said manipulation includes movement of the distal portion of the surgical instrument about first and second rotational axes relative to the proximal portion of the instrument shaft within the body cavity of the patient, and wherein a drive motor system effects said movement of the end effector about the first and second axes from proximally of the remote center of spherical rotation. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein said manipulation includes actuating an end effector on the distal portion of the surgical instrument. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the actuating step comprises opening and closing jaws on the end effector of the instrument. 13. The method according to claim 10 wherein said manipulation includes pivoting the distal portion of the instrument about a wrist located along the instrument shaft. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the first and second rotational axes are defined by joints between engaging rigid instrument elements. 15. A method for performing an endoscopic surgical procedure on a target site within a body cavity of a patient comprising: introducing a distal portion of a surgical instrument through a percutaneous penetration into a body cavity within the patient; establishing a remote spherical center of rotation at a desired location of the instrument; constraining movement of the instrument to maintain the remote center of spherical rotation at the desired location on the instrument in the course of manipulation of tissue with the instrument by a surgeon performing the endoscopic surgical procedure; and wherein said manipulation includes movement of a distal portion of the surgical instrument with a plurality of degrees of freedom relative to the instrument shaft within the body cavity of the patient. 16. The method according to claim 15 further including rotating and translating first and second linkages to constrain movement of the instrument such that the remote spherical center of rotation on the instrument remains at a fixed position relative to a base. 17. The method according to claim 15 wherein said manipulation includes actuating an end effector on the distal portion of the surgical instrument. 18. The method according to claim 17 wherein the actuating step comprises opening and closing jaws on the end effector of the instrument. 19. The method according to claim 15 wherein said manipulation includes pivoting the distal portion of the instrument about a wrist located along the instrument shaft. 20. The method of claim 15 further comprising detecting forces and torques applied to the instrument during the manipulation step. 21. The method of claim 15 further comprising remotely controlling movement of the first and second linkages and the surgical instrument with an input control device and transmitting feedback signals to the input control device based on the forces and torques applied to the instrument. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein the movement of the distal portion comprises articulation of a plurality of rotational joints coupling rigid shaft elements. 23. A method of performing surgery at an internal workaday within a patient by an operator at a remote location, the method comprising: providing an input control device located remotely from the internal workaday, and a surgical instrument having proximal and distal ends and an end effector at the distal end; introducing the distal end of the surgical instrument through a small incision in the patient to the internal workaday; pivoting the input control device about first and second axes; controlling the surgical instrument such that movement of the input control device relative to the first and second axes corresponds to movement of the surgical instrument about third and fourth axes that intersect at a center of rotation located at a fixed point in space between the distal and proximal ends of the surgical instrument; constraining the pivotal movement of the surgical instrument such that the fixed center of rotation remains at the fixed point in space as the instrument is pivoted about the third and fourth axes; and pivoting the distal end of the surgical instrument with a proximal drive motor so that the distal end of the surgical instrument rotates about first and second internal axes within the patient, the second internal axis being normal to the first internal axis. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the fixed point in space is located at the small incision in the patient. 25. The method of claim 23 further comprising actuating an end effector on the distal portion of the surgical instrument with the input control device. 26. The method according to claim 23 further comprising pivoting a portion of the input control device to cause corresponding pivotal movement of a distal portion of the instrument about a wrist located along the instrument shaft. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the pivoting step is performed while the distal end of the surgical instrument is supported relative to the proximal end of the surgical instrument by rigid instrument links, joints between engaging rigid links defining the first and second internal axes. 28. A method for performing an endoscopic surgical procedure on a target site within a body cavity of a patient comprising: introducing a distal end of a shaft through a penetration into a body cavity within the patient, the shaft defining a shaft axis; moving a proximal end of the shaft along first and second lateral axes while the shaft pivots about the penetration so as to position the distal end of the shaft within the patient body; orienting an end effector relative to the target site by articulating the distal end of the shaft about first and second internal axes within the patient body; and actuating the end effector within the body cavity so as to manipulate tissue while articulating the distal end about the first and second internal axes. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the moving step comprises actuating a linkage, the linkage constraining lateral movement of the proximal end of the shaft to pivotal movement about a remote spherical center of rotation along the shaft at the penetration. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising sliding the shaft axially through the penetration to position the end of the shaft axially within the body cavity. 31. The method of claim 28, further comprising rotating the shaft about the axis of the shaft. 32. The method of claim 28, wherein orienting step comprises pivoting the end effector about a pivotal joint with a proxmial drive motor, the pivotal joint coupling the end effector to the shaft. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the orienting step further comprises rotating the end effector about an end effector axis between the end effector and the pivotal joint. 34. The method of claim 28, wherein the orienting step comprises pivoting first and second internal rotational joints within the patient body, the internal rotational joints coupling engaging ends of rigid links so as to define the internal axes. 