The invention relates to a four-step automated system for the transportation, through an automated guidance vehicle ("AGV"), of products such as pharmaceuticals to any location within a hospital. The system comprises an input queue, a dispensing apparatus comprising a robot device and a number of stations from which the robot device works, an inspection station, and an AGV transportation system. A computer interface provides bi-directional communication between analytical instruments, robots and peripheral devices. The robot and AGV employed by the system are responsive to computer commands and capable of performing mechanical functions including selection and retrieval of necessary item, and manipulation of retrieved items and delivery of said items, all without human intervention.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for automatically transporting products by combining a pneumatic tube carrier system and an automated guidance vehicle, said system comprising: at least one computer having a database capable of receiving information, transmitting said information within said system, and maintaining control within said system; a delivery means for transporting a product from a storage location to a pneumatic tube carrier; a first loading means for automatically inserting product into said carrier; a second loading means for automatically inserting said carrier into said pneumatic tube system; a third loading means for automatically inserting said carrier into said automated guidance vehicle; a control means for coordinating transportation of said carrier through said pneumatic tube system to said automated guidance vehicle, and for controlling the movement of said automated guidance vehicle to appropriate locations. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein a visual inspection station is located midway between said robot and said automated guidance vehicle. 3. A system as claimed in claim 2 in which the inspection station comprises barcode scanning. 4. A system for automatically transporting products by combining a pneumatic tube carrier system, a computerized robotics device, and an automated guidance vehicle, said system comprising: at least one computer having a database capable of receiving information and transmitting said information within said system, maintaining control within said system; at least one robot, said robot having: at least one movable arm; at least one pair of gripping means wherein said gripping means are attached to at least one of said movable arms having sensors wherein said sensors indicate the presence or absence of an object; a delivery means for transporting a product from a storage location to a pneumatic tube carrier; a first loading station comprising means for loading said product into said carrier; a second loading station comprising means for loading said carrier onto said automated guidance vehicle; and a control means for coordinating transportation of said automated guidance vehicle to appropriate locations. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4 wherein a visual inspection station is located midway between said robot and said automated guidance vehicle. 6. A device as claimed in claim 5 in which the inspection station comprises barcode scanning. 7. A system for automatically delivering products from a storage location to a predetermined location, said system comprising: at least one computer; at least one robot device; at least one automated guidance vehicle; and a transporter for moving said products between said robot and said automated guidance vehicle; wherein said automated guidance vehicles may be moved in accordance with signals generated from said computer. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7 wherein a visual inspection station is located midway between said robot and said automated guidance vehicle. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8 in which the inspection station comprises barcode scanning. 10. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transporter is a pneumatic tube carrier system. 