A system for applying adhesive to the peripheral edge of a window glass includes a brush which is held stationary while the window glass is moved with respect to the brush to apply the adhesive. The brush includes a plastic sleeve which exposes only a specified portion of the bristles of the brush. After the bristles have worn, the brush is moved to a cutting station where a portion of the sleeve is removed to expose another portion of the bristles. This operation continues until there is no material left on the sleeve to trim. At this point, the brush is discarded and replaced with a new brush automatically. Rather than have the window glass move with respect to the brush, the brush can be moved with respect to the window glass if desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for applying material to a window glass, said apparatus comprising: a brush comprising a housing, a plurality of bristles secured to said housing and a sleeve supported by said housing, said bristles being disposed within said sleeve; means for supporting said brush; a supporting structure for said window glass, said supporting structure positioning said window glass at a specified location with respect to said brush; means for moving one of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure with respect to the other of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure; and a brush supply system disposed adjacent to said supporting structure, said brush supply system including a plurality of replacement brushes, said means for supporting said brush being operable to discard said brush and replace said brush with one of said replacement brushed of said brush supply system. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for supporting said brush comprises a supporting rail and a carriage movably connected to said support rail, said brush being attached to said carriage. 3. The apparatus according to claim I wherein said supporting structure comprises a movable table. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said brush supply system comprises a cutting station, said cutting station being operable to trim said brush. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said brush supply system comprises a cutting station, said cutting station being operable to trim one end of said sleeve to expose a portion of said bristles. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing defines a plurality of grooves and said brush supply system comprises a cutting station, said cutting station being operable to cut said housing at one of said plurality of grooves. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sleeve defines an arcuate extension to support said bristles. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for supporting said brush includes a nozzle and a clamp, said clamp being operable to secure said brush to said nozzle. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for supporting said brush includes a nozzle having a retaining groove and said brush includes a snap ring disposed within a snap ring groove, said snap ring engaging said retaining groove to secure said brush to said nozzle. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for supporting said brush includes a nozzle having a retaining groove and said brush defines a bore within which is disposed a spring and a ball, said ball being urged into said retaining groove by said spring to secure said brush to said nozzle. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said brush supply system includes a magazine for holding said plurality of replacement brushes. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said magazine includes a spring for biasing said plurality of replacement brushes in a specified direction. 13. An apparatus for applying material to a window glass, said apparatus comprising: a brush; means for supporting said brush, said means for supporting said brush including a nozzle having a retaining groove and said brush includes a snap ring disposed within a snap ring groove, said snap ring engaging said retaining groove to secure said brush to said nozzle; a supporting structure for said window glass, said supporting structure positioning said window glass at a specified location with respect to said brush; means for moving one of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure with respect to the other of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure; and a brush supply system disposed adjacent to said supporting structure, said brush supply system including a plurality of replacement brushes, said means for supporting said brush being operable to discard said brush and replace said brush with one of said replacement brushed of said brush supply system. 14. An apparatus for applying material to a window glass, said apparatus comprising: a brush; means for supporting said brush, said means for supporting said brush including a nozzle having a retaining groove and said brush defines a bore within which is disposed a spring and a ball, said ball urged into said retaining groove by said spring to secure said brush to said nozzle; a supporting structure for said window glass, said supporting structure positioning said window glass at a specified location with respect to said brush; means for moving one of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure with respect to the other of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure; and a brush supply system disposed adjacent to said supporting structure, said brush supply system including a plurality of replacement brushes, said means for supporting said brush being operable to discard said brush and replace said brush with one of said replacement brushed of said brush supply system. 15. An apparatus for applying material to a window glass, said apparatus comprising: a brush; means for supporting said brush; a supporting structure for said window glass, said supporting structure positioning said window glass at a specified location with respect to said brush; means for moving one of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure with respect to the other of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure; and a brush supply system disposed adjacent to said supporting structure, said brush supply system including a magazine for holding a plurality of replacement brushes, said means for supporting said brush being operable to discard said brush and replace said brush with one of said replacement brushed of said brush supply system. 16. An apparatus for applying material to a window glass, said apparatus comprising: a brush comprising a housing having a bore and a plurality of bristles secured to said housing, said material being supplied to said bristles through said bore in said housing; means for supporting said brush; a supporting structure for said window glass, said supporting structure positioning said window glass at a specified location with respect to said brush; means for moving one of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure with respect to the other of said means for supporting said brush and said supporting structure; and a brush supply system disposed adjacent to said supporting structure, said brush supply system including a plurality of replacement brushes, said means for supporting said brush being operable to discard said brush and replace said brush with one of said replacement brushed of said brush supply system. 