An apparatus which allows one to maintain precision placement of a manipulator which undergoes repeated controlled motions or trajectories is provided. The structure of the apparatus is compliant such that the manipulator may be displaced by forces applied to the mechanical structure. This compliance is due to a lack of precision in the fabrication of the component parts of the machine, and to a lack of rigidity due to a lightweight design. This displacement is of a greater magnitude than the precision positioning tolerance of the apparatus. Consequently, the manipulator may then be displaced outside of the positioning tolerance due to applied forces. However, it is a characteristic of the present invention, that despite the compliance of the mechanical structure of the apparatus, the positioning tolerance will be maintained. The controlled motion is accomplished by the generation of control signals by computer software running on a computer control system. The control software enables the system to run at much greater speeds while not exciting unwanted movement or vibration in the compliant mechanical structure.
Claims Therefore, the following is claimed: 1. An apparatus for achieving precision motion, comprising: a support structure capable of a degree of compliance; a manipulator included within said support structure, said manipulator capable of a controlled motion relative to a fixed point, said degree of compliance capable of causing extraneous displacement of said manipulator relative to said fixed point; a force generating element responsive to a control signal which causes said controlled movement of said manipulator; and a control system which generates said control signal thereby positioning said manipulator within a predetermined position tolerance, wherein said extraneous displacement may be greater in magnitude than said predetermined tolerance. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support structure is made of component parts which are constructed to dimensional tolerances that are greater than said predetermined position tolerance. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support structure is non-rigid, capable of deformation. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support structure includes moving parts, said moving parts being substantially equal in weight to a payload. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the maximum position error of said manipulator experienced during said controlled motion caused by said control signal generated by said control system is substantially ten times less than the maximum position error of said manipulator as controlled by a well tuned standard PID controller. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controlled motion is repetitive. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control system further comprises a filter to minimize the generation of unwanted dynamics in said support structure created by said control signal. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said controlled motion is repetitive; and said control system further comprises a learned effort signal generator generating a learned effort signal that compensates for repeated errors experienced in said controlled motion. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control system further comprises a position feedback generator creating a position feedback signal from a plurality of feedback sensors. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control system further comprises a trajectory generator creating a desired position trajectory by altering a predetermined trajectory to achieve said desired position trajectory, said desired position trajectory determined by at least one position sensing device, wherein said control signal is generated from said desired position trajectory. 11. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said control system further comprises: a filter to minimize the generation of unwanted dynamics in said support structure created by said control signal; and a learned effort signal generator generating a learned effort signal that compensates for repeated errors experienced in said controlled motion. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said control signal and said learned effort signals are digital signals with a first sample rate. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said learned effort signal generator further includes: a sample rate reducer producing a reduced control signal at a second sample rate, said second sample rate being a predetermined value lower than said first sample rate; a reduced learned effort signal generator, said generator creating a reduced learned effort signal at said second sample rate from said reduced control signal and a filtered effort signal; a low pass filter creating said filtered effort signal by filtering said reduced learned effort signal; and a signal restorer generating said learned effort signal at said first sample rate from said reduced learned effort signal. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said sample rate reducer produces said reduced control signal by taking the weighted average of said control signal. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said signal restorer generates said learned effort signal through the linear interpolation of said reduced learned effort signal. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said control system further comprises a position feedback generator creating a position feedback signal from a plurality of feedback sensors. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said control system further comprises a trajectory generator creating a desired position trajectory by altering a predetermined trajectory to achieve said desired position trajectory, said desired position trajectory determined by at least one position sensing device, wherein said control signal is generated from said desired position trajectory. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said position sensing device further comprises a vision device. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said position sensing device further comprises an encoder. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said plurality of feedback sensors further includes a vision unit and an encoder. 21. An apparatus for achieving precision motion, comprising: a support structure capable of a degree of compliance; a manipulator included within said support structure, said manipulator capable of a repetitive controlled motion relative to a fixed point, said degree of compliance capable of causing extraneous displacement of said manipulator relative to said fixed point; a force generating means for causing said controlled movement of said manipulator in response to a control signal; and a control means for generating said control signal thereby positioning said manipulator within a predetermined position tolerance, wherein said extraneous displacement may be greater in magnitude than said predetermined tolerance. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said control means further comprises: a first filter means for processing said control signal, thereby minimizing the generation of unwanted dynamics in said support structure; and a learning means for creating a learned effort signal that compensates for repeated errors experienced in said controlled motion. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said control means further comprises a trajectory generating means for creating a desired position trajectory by altering a predetermined trajectory to achieve said desired position trajectory, said desired position trajectory determined by a position sensing means, wherein said control signal is generated from said desired position trajectory. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said control signal and said learned effort signal are digital signals with a first sample rate. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said learning means further includes: a first means for producing a reduced control signal at second sample rate, said second sample rate being a predetermined level lower than said first sample rate; a second means for creating a reduced learned effort signal at said second sample rate from said reduced control signal and a filtered effort signal; a second filter means for creating said filtered effort signal by filtering said reduced learned effort signal; and a third means for generating said learned effort signal at said first sample rate from said reduced learned effort signal. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said first means produces said reduced control signal by taking the weighted average of said control signal. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said third means generates said learned effort signal through the linear interpolation of said reduced learned effort signal. 28. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said control system further comprises feedback means for generating a position feedback signal from a plurality of position feedback sensors. 29. The method of controlling the repeated movement of a manipulator, comprising the steps of: connecting the manipulator to a support structure, the manipulator capable of repeated movement, the support structure capable of a degree of compliance; generating a control signal; controlling an actuator based on said control signal, said actuator causing the controlled motion of said manipulator; and positioning said manipulator within a predetermined positioning tolerance, said degree of compliance being greater in magnitude than the predetermined positioning tolerance. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of generating said control signal further comprises the steps of: generating a desired position trajectory from which said control signal is generated; minimizing the generation of unwanted dynamics in said support structure by filtering said desired position trajectory; and compensating for repeated errors in the controlled movement of said manipulator by creating a learned effort signal based on said control signal, said learned effort signal being used to control the movement of said manipulator in addition to said control signal. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the step of compensating for repeated errors further comprises the steps of: reducing the original sample rate of said control signal to a predetermined sample rate, thereby generating a reduced control signal; generating a reduced learned effort signal based on a previously stored, filtered learned effort signal and said reduced control signal; generating a filtered learned effort signal based on said reduced learned effort signal, and storing said filtered learned effort signal in memory; and generating a learned effort signal with a sample rate equal to that of the original sample rate of said control signal by restoring the sample rate of said reduced learned effort signal. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the step of reducing the original sample rate of said control signal further comprises the step of taking the weighted average of said control signal at said original sample rate. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the step of generating a learned effort signal with a sample rate equal to that of the original sample rate of said control signal further comprises the step of generating said learned effort signal through the linear interpolation of said reduced learned effort signal. 34. The method of claim 30, wherein the step of minimizing the generation of unwanted dynamics in said support structure by filtering said desired position trajectory further comprises the steps of: calculating a first coefficient C.sub.1 where C.sub.1 =1/M, where M is a scaling factor; calculating a second coefficient C.sub.2, where ##EQU5## .omega..sub.n equals the natural frequency of said support structure, .zeta. equals the damping ratio of said support structure, and T equals a arbitrary time-delay not equal to zero; calculating a third coefficient C.sub.3 where ##EQU6## and filtering said desired position trajectory u(t) using a digital filter in the form x(t)=C.sub.1 u(t)+C.sub.2 u(t-T)+C.sub.3 u(t-2T), where x(t) is the filtered position trajectory output. 35. The method of claim 30, further including the step of generating actual position information from a plurality of position feedback sensors from which said desired position trajectory is determined. 36. The method of claim 34, wherein the step of generating actual position information further comprises the steps of: generating position information with the use of vision units; and generating position information with the use of an encoder. 