In one aspect, foreign material on the surface of a substrate is processed to form a reaction product by: providing a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant, to the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed; and delivering an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles continuously or intermittently to the foreign material to aid the reactant react with the foreign material to form the reaction product. In another aspect, foreign material is processed by: providing a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant, to the foreign material to be processed in a limited area reaction region corresponding to a minor fraction of the total area of the substrate; agitating the foreign material in the limited area reaction region to aid the reactant react with the foreign material to form the reaction product; and providing relative motion between the substrate and the directed flow of fluid to achieve a substantially uniform exposure of the foreign material to fluid flow and the agitation. Infrared or ultraviolet radiation may also be delivered to the foreign material. Specific methods for processing oxide layers, organic layers and metal contamination are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing foreign material on the surface of a substrate comprising the steps of at any given time, providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant, only to foreign material in a limited area reaction region corresponding to a minor fraction of the total area of the substrate, simultaneously delivering from a second source an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to said foreign material in said limited area reaction region to aid the reaction of the reactant with the foreign material to form a reaction product, and scanning said substrate to achieve a substantially uniform exposure of the foreign material to said fluid flow and said aerosol of at least partially frozen particles. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said aerosol of at least partially frozen particles that is delivered aids the reactant react by transferring momentum to the foreign material or to the reaction product sufficient for removal thereof from the substrate surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said limited area reaction region has an elongated length dimension and a width dimension that is narrow relative to the length dimension. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of delivering an aerosol comprises at any given time delivering said aerosol particles only to said limited area reaction region. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of scanning comprises the step of moving said substrate while maintaining the orientation of said directed flow of fluid stationary. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of moving said substrate comprises linearly translating said substrate relative to said directed flow of fluid. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of moving said substrate comprises rotating said substrate about an axis. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of moving said substrate comprises translating said substrate in two orthogonal directions. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said directed flow of fluid is applied to a limited area reaction region and said substrate is scanned relative to said directed flow of fluid to achieve a substantially uniform exposure of the entire surface of the substrate to the directed flow of fluid in multiple passes, and after each of said passes said aerosol is applied to the entire surface of the substrate to aid the reactant react with the foreign material. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a directed flow of fluid comprises providing a gaseous flow of hydrogen fluoride to the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a directed flow of a fluid comprises providing a gaseous flow of nitrogen or water vapor to the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a directed flow of a fluid comprises providing a flow of isopropyl alcohol vapor to the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a directed flow of a fluid comprises providing a flow of a gaseous mixture of water vapor, nitrogen gas and hydrogen fluoride to the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of providing a flow of a fluid comprises providing a flow of a fluid at a flow rate selected to provide sufficient quantity of reactant to the vicinity of the foreign material for efficient processing. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said fluid is delivered at a flow rate of at least 1 SCFM. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the average energy of the particles of said aerosol are selected to achieve efficient cleaning. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the average size of the aerosol particles is selected to include between 10.sup.7 and 10.sup.10 atoms per aerosol particle. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the average energy of the atoms of each aerosol particle is selected to be between 0.0001 eV and 0.01 eV. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the particles of said aerosol impact said foreign material with an average velocity between 2,000 cm/sec and 30,000 cm/sec. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the particles of said aerosol impact said foreign material with an average velocity between 5,000 cm/sec and 10,000 cm/sec. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least partially frozen aerosol particles comprise carbon dioxide. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least partially frozen aerosol particles comprise argon. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least partially frozen aerosol particles comprise water. 24. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least partially frozen aerosol particles comprise ammonia. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of delivering an aerosol comprises delivering at least two different aerosols of at least partially frozen particles to the foreign material on the substrate. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said step of delivering at least two different aerosols comprises delivering an aerosol of at least partially frozen carbon dioxide to the foreign material until said foreign material is processed, and further comprising the step of delivering an aerosol of at least partially frozen argon particles to the surface of the substrate, after said foreign material has been processed. 27. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of removing said reaction product from the vicinity of the wafer surface. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said step of removing said reaction product comprises delivering a purge gas to the surface of the substrate. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein said purge gas is delivered is delivered as a laminar flow over the region of the substrate surface where the reaction product forms. 30. The method of claim 27 wherein said step of removing said reaction product comprises the step of providing a process chamber that is aerodynamically shaped to reduce turbulence therein. 31. The method of claim 27 wherein the step of removing said reaction product comprises providing a vacuum exhaust in the vicinity of said substrate. 32. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of delivering said aerosol of at least partially frozen particles comprises transferring to said foreign material by impact momentum sufficient energy to dislodge at least a portion of said foreign material from the substrate surface. 33. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of delivering an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles comprises at any given time delivering said aerosol particles only to said limited area reaction region. 34. The method of claim 1 wherein said limited area reaction region is approximately 0.1 cm.sup.2 to 4 cm.sup.2 in area. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein said step of delivering an aerosol comprises delivering said aerosol particles to said limited area reaction region. 36. The method of claim 34 further comprising the step of scanning said substrate with said directed flow of fluid to achieve a substantially uniform exposure of said foreign material to said fluid and said aerosol. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein said step of scanning comprises the step of moving said substrate while maintaining said directed flow of fluid stationary. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of moving said substrate comprises linearly translating said substrate relative to said directed flow of fluid. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of moving said substrate comprises rotating said substrate about an axis. 40. The method according to claim 1 for processing metal contamination on a substrate surface wherein the directed flow of fluid comprises a reactant selected to react with the metal contamination to form a volatile reaction product. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein said reactant that is provided comprises a mixture of a carrier gas, hydrogen fluoride and water vapor. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the reactant that is provided further comprises a mixture of a carrier gas, chlorine and water vapor. 43. The method of claim 40 further comprising the step of flowing a purge gas over the metallic contamination being processed to aid the removal of the reaction product from the vicinity of the substrate surface. 44. The method according to claim 1 for processing organic contamination on a substrate surface wherein the directed flow of fluid comprises a reactant selected to react with the organic contamination to form a volatile reaction product. 45. The method of claim 44 further comprising the step of delivering infrared radiation to the substrate to heat the substrate to a temperature of about 100.degree. C. 46. A method for processing foreign material on the surface of a substrate comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed, and simultaneously delivering from a second source to the foreign material to be processed an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to aid the reaction of the reactant with the foreign material to form a reaction product; wherein said aerosol is applied to the foreign material as a series of intermittent pulses. 47. A method for processing foreign material on the surface of a substrate comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed, and simultaneously delivering from a second source to the foreign material to be processed an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to aid the reaction of the reactant with the foreign material to form a reaction product; wherein said aerosol is delivered from an aerosol generating nozzle and through an orifice in a heat shield to prevent condensation of said reactant in the vicinity of said nozzle. 48. The method of claim 47 further comprising the step of providing a flow of a flush gas around said nozzle and through said orifice. 49. The method of claim 48 wherein the orifice of said heat shield has a converging and diverging shape for accelerating said flush gas therethrough. 50. A method for processing foreign material on the surface of a substrate comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the foreign material to be processed, and simultaneously delivering from a second source to the foreign material to be processed an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to aid the reaction of the reactant with the foreign material to form a reaction product; wherein further comprising the step of delivering light to the foreign material to be processed to aid the reactant react with the foreign material. 51. The method of claim 50 wherein said step of delivering light comprises delivering ultraviolet light to the foreign material to be processed. 52. The method of claim 50 wherein said step of delivering light comprises delivering infrared light to the foreign material to be processed. 53. The method of claim 50 wherein said step of delivering light comprises delivering light having a wavelength that is absorbed by said reactant in a manner increasing the reactivity of the reactant. 54. The method of claim 20 wherein said reactant comprises HF and the light that is delivered to the foreign material to be processed comprises light having a wavelength of about 248 nm. 55. A method for processing an oxide layer on a substrate surface comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant selected to react with the oxide layer to form a reaction product, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the oxide layer to be processed, and simultaneously delivering from-a second source an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to the oxide layer to aid the reactant react with the oxide layer to form a reaction product. 56. The method of claim 55 wherein said reactant that is provided comprises a mixture of a carrier gas, hydrogen fluoride and CH.sub.3 OH. 57. The method of claim 56 wherein said mixture is provided at a temperature of about 60.degree. C. 58. The method of claim 55 wherein said at least partially frozen aerosol particles that are delivered comprise argon particles. 59. The method of claim 55 further comprising the step of applying light to the oxide layer to be processed. 60. The method of claim 59 wherein said light that is applied comprises infrared light selected to maintain the temperature of the oxide layer to be processed between 90.degree. C. and 110.degree. C. 61. The method of claim 55 further comprising the step of providing, after said oxide layer has been processed, a pacification gas to the vicinity of the processed oxide layer. 62. The method of claim 61 wherein said pacification gas that is provided comprises hydrogen. 63. A method for processing metal contamination on a substrate surface comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant selected to react with the metal contamination to form a volatile reaction product, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the metal contamination to be processed, simultaneously delivering from a second source an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to the metal contamination to aid the reactant react with the metal contamination to form a reaction product, and applying ultraviolet light to the metal contamination to be processed. 64. A method for processing metal contamination on a substrate surface comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant selected to react with the metal contamination to form a volatile reaction product, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the metal contamination to be processed, simultaneously delivering from a second source an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to the metal contamination to aid the reactant react with the metal contamination to form a reaction product, and providing, after processing, a flow of ozone in the vicinity of the substrate surface, and applying ultraviolet light to the substrate surface, whereby an oxide layer is formed on the surface of the substrate. 65. A method for processing organic contamination on a substrate surface comprising the steps of providing from a first source a directed flow of a fluid, comprising a reactant selected to react with the organic contamination to form a volatile reaction product, to the surface of the substrate in the vicinity of the metal contamination to be processed, simultaneously delivering from a second source an aerosol of at least partially frozen particles to the organic contamination to aid the reactant react with the organic contamination to form a reaction product, and delivering to the organic contamination ultraviolet light having a wavelength greater than 150 nm. 