A contact tip for use with a welding gun includes a tapered portion, a threaded portion, an extension portion and a gripping feature. The tip is elongated and has a first end and a second end. The tip also has a wire feed axis extending therethrough and an axial wire feed aperture extending therethrough. The tapered portion of the tip is at a second end of the tip and has a frustoconical shape. The threaded portion of the tip includes double threads and is adjacent the tapered portion. The extension portion of the tip is adjacent the threaded portion and extends to the first end of the tip. The gripping feature is disposed on the extension portion. The tapered portion serves as a retaining feature. The double threads provide additional thread length while allowing the tip to be quickly unthreaded for quick tip changes in use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A contact tip for use with a welding gun, the tip comprising: the tip being elongated in shape and including a first end and a second end having a wire feed axis extending therethrough, and including a wire feed aperture axially passing therethrough; a tapered portion at the second end of the tip having a frustoconical shape; a threaded portion of the tip adjacent the tapered portion; said threaded portion comprising double threads; and an extension portion of the tip adjacent the threaded portion and extending to the first end; wherein the tapered portion serves as a retaining feature and the threaded portion has an axial length greater than 3 times a pitch of the double threads enabling the tip to be quickly unthreaded while providing increased thread length. 2. A welding gun contact tip as claimed in claim 1 wherein the included angle of the tapered portion is not more that approximately 20.degree.. 3. A welding gun contact tip as claimed in claim 1 including a gripping feature having at least one flat surface. 4. A combination of a retaining head nozzle and a welding gun, the combination comprising: a tip including a first end and a second end having a wire feed axis extending therethrough, and including a wire feed aperture axially passing therethrough, a tapered portion at the second end of the tip having a frustoconical shape; a threaded portion of the tip adjacent the tapered portion, said threaded portion comprising double threads; an extension portion disposed at the first end; and a tip retaining member having an end and having a wire feed aperture aligned with the wire feed aperture of the tip, the wire feed aperture at the end of the tip retaining member receiving the second end of the tip and having internal double threads engaged by the threaded portion of the tip and a tapered seat engaged by and complementary in shape to the tapered portion of the tip, wherein, when the tip is subjected to torque in a tightening direction, the tip will resist removal from the tip retaining member because of locking engagement between the tapered portion and the seat, but the threaded portion has an axial length greater than 3 times a pitch of the double threads enabling the tip to be quickly unthreaded while providing increased thread length. 5. A combination of a contact tip and a tip retaining member as claimed in claim 4 wherein the included angle of the tapered portion and the seat is not more than approximately 20.degree.. 6. A combination of a contact tip and a tip retaining member as claimed in claim 4 including a gripping feature having at least one flat surface. 