A modular rail system for positioning a six axis robot about an auxiliary axis includes a plurality of rail sections which are selectively interconnected in order to provide a reconfigurable length about the auxiliary axis, and the six axis robot for movement with respect to the rail sections about the auxiliary axis. The rail sections may include a first end section positioned toward a first end of the auxiliary axis, a second end section positioned toward a second end of the auxiliary axis, and one or more intermediate sections positioned between the first and second end sections. The first end section, the intermediate sections and the second end section are interconnected along the auxiliary axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a modular rail system for supporting a painting robot for in-booth or clean wall painting operations, comprising the steps of: connecting a plurality of modular intermediate rail sections together to form a desired length of intermediate rail sections for a painting task, wherein the desired length of the intermediate rail sections is variable for different painting tasks by adding or removing intermediate rail sections; connecting a first end rail section to one end of the length of intermediate rail sections; connecting a second end rail section to the other end of the length of intermediate rail sections; mounting at least one carriage assembly on the rail sections such that the at least one carriage assembly is movable along the rail sections; and removably mounting a painting robot to the at least one carriage assembly. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, including placing the modular rail system on one side of a wall in a clean wall paint system; connecting a cantilevered adapter mechanism to the at least one carriage, the cantilevered adapter mechanism configured to extend through the wall into a paint booth; and removably mounting the painting robot on the cantilevered adapter mechanism in the paint booth. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, including placing the modular rail system inside a paint booth; connecting a support mechanism to the at least one carriage; removably mounting the painting robot to the support mechanism; and attaching a cover to the rail system. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, including connecting one end of a modular cable carrier to the at least one carriage assembly to supply power to a drive assembly mounted on the carriage assembly. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein each rail system includes a pair of spaced-apart bearing ways and the method includes connecting a portion of the bearing ways from one rail section to an adjacent rail section to connect the plurality of intermediate rail sections. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, including connecting a plurality of hollow support tubes together to form each of the rail sections. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, including: removing the painting robot from the at least one carriage assembly; attaching an adaptor mechanism to the at least one carriage assembly; and mounting the painting robot on the adaptor mechanism to convert from an in-booth to a clean wall configuration. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, including attaching at least one leveling mechanism to at least one of the rail sections to raise and lower the at least one rail section. 9. The method as claimed in claim 6, including: positioning one of the hollow support tubes to form a forward wall; positioning another of the hollow tubes to form a rearward wall; mounting a first bearing way on the forward wall; and mounting a second bearing way on the rearward wall, wherein the at least one carriage assembly is movable along the bearing ways. 10. The method as claimed in claim 6, including attaching a pair of transverse members to the hollow support tubes. 11. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the tubes are generally rectangular and the method includes welding adjacent tubes together. 12. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein a longitudinal channel is located between the forward wall and the rearward wall and the method includes mounting a longitudinal rack mechanism in the longitudinal channel. 13. The method as claimed in claim 9, including moving one of the first or second bearing ways with respect to the other of the first or second bearing ways to adjust a distance between the first and second bearing ways. 14. A method of forming a modular rail system for supporting a painting robot for in-booth or clean wall painting operations, comprising the steps of: connecting a plurality of modular intermediate rail sections together to form a desired length of intermediate rail sections for a painting task, wherein the desired length of the intermediate rail sections is variable for different painting tasks by adding or removing intermediate rail sections; connecting a first end rail section to one end of the length of intermediate rail sections; connecting a second end rail section to the other end of the length of intermediate rail sections; mounting at least one carriage assembly on the rail sections such that the at least one carriage assembly is movable along the rail sections; removably mounting a painting robot to the at least one carriage assembly; and coupling different sized rail sections for different sized painting operations. 