This invention comprises a general redundant spherical linkage capable of producing a hemisphere or greater of singularity-free, relative motion of two arms which intersect at a fixed point. All points of all links of the invention move on spheres that are concentric about this fixed point of intersection of the two arms. In a general way, the invention can be considered as a sphere which is divided by a central link that supports two pairs of scissoring and intersecting axes of rotation for four semicircular links that are 180.degree. arcs. The semicircular links maintain a constant angle at their point of overlap and support radial arms having axes which pass through the center of the sphere. Each pair of pivoted links controls the spherical motion of one arm within one hemisphere. By simultaneously controlling all four pivoted links, arbitrary relative motion of the two arms can be achieved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanical joint, comprising: a center linkage including a first and second center link, each rotatable about a rotation point; a first link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a first axis passing through the rotation point; a second link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the second center link to pivot about a second axis passing through the rotation point; a third link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a third axis passing through the rotation point; a fourth link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the second center link to pivot about a fourth axis passing through the rotation point; a first carriage unit interconnecting the first and second links at a fixed angle at a first point of overlap; and a second carriage unit interconnecting the third and fourth links at a fixed angle at a second point of overlap. 2. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first and third axes are coaxial, thereby defining a first common axis, and the second and fourth axes are coaxial, thereby defining a second common axis. 3. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first and second center links are concentric circular links. 4. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first and second center links intersect at the rotation point. 5. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first and third axes are non-coaxial and the second and fourth axes are non-coaxial. 6. The joint of claim 1 further comprising a first arm supported by the first carriage unit having an axis passing through the rotation point, and a second arm supported by the second carriage unit having an axis passing through the rotation point. 7. The joint of claim 1 wherein the fixed angle between the first and second links is ninety degrees and the fixed angle between the third and fourth links is ninety degrees. 8. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first, second, third, and fourth links are semicircular hoops, each having a substantially constant radius from the rotation point. 9. The joint of claim 1 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth links is pivotable through an adjustment hemisphere. 10. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first and second links are pivotable through a first adjustment hemisphere and the third and fourth links are pivotable through a second adjustment hemisphere. 11. The joint of claim 1 wherein the rotation point is disposed at the center of the center linkage. 12. The joint of claim 1 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth links has a quadrilateral cross-section between its ends. 13. The joint of claim 1 wherein each of the first and fourth links has a pair of opposed sides which converge with distance from the rotation point and each of the second and fourth links has a pair of opposed sides which diverge with distance from the rotation point. 14. The joint of claim 1 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth links includes a slot between parallel rails extending between the ends of the links, each of the parallel rails having a quadrilateral cross-section. 15. The joint of claim 6 further comprising a double universal joint having one end connected to the first arm and another end connected to the second arm. 16. The joint of claim 6 wherein the first arm axis is offset from the first point of overlap and the second arm axis is offset from the second point of overlap. 17. The joint of claim 6 wherein the first arm axis passes through the first point of overlap and the second arm axis passes through the second point of overlap. 18. The joint of claim 8 wherein the first link is radially larger than the second link, and the fourth link is radially larger than the third link. 19. The joint of claim 8 wherein the first link is radially larger than the second link, and the third link is radially larger than the fourth link. 20. The joint of claim 2 further comprising an actuator in operable association with the center linkage and the first, second, third, and fourth links for controllably rotating the first and second center links about the rotation point, and controllably pivoting the first and third links about the first common axis, and the second and fourth links about the second common axis. 21. The joint of claim 2 further comprising a first gear constraint connected to the first and third links to constrain the pivotal movement of the links about the first common axis so that the first and third links pivot in mirror image relationship to one another, and a second gear constraint connected to the second and fourth links to constrain the pivotal movement of the links about the second common axis so that the second and fourth links pivot in mirror image relationship to one another. 22. The joint of claim 21 wherein the first gear constraint includes a first gear pack connected to one end of the first link and one end of the third link and a second gear pack connected to the other end of the first link and the other end of the third link, and the second gear constraint includes a third gear pack connected to one end of the second link and one end of the fourth link and a fourth gear pack connected to the other end of the second link and the other end of the fourth link. 23. The joint of claim 2 further comprising a first kite linkage for constraining the movement of the first and third links so that the first and third links pivot in mirror image relationship relative to one another about the first common axis, and a second kite linkage for constraining the movement of the second and fourth links so that the second and fourth links pivot in mirror image relationship relative to one another about the second common axis. 24. The joint of claim 13 wherein the first carriage unit includes a first carriage which bears upon a convergent side of the first link and a second carriage which bears upon a divergent side of the second link, and the second carriage unit includes a third carriage which bears upon a convergent side of the fourth link and a second carriage which bears upon a divergent side of the third link. 25. The joint of claim 14 further comprising a first arm supported by the first carriage unit extending through the slots of the first and second links, the first arm having an axis passing through the rotation point, and a second arm supported by the second carriage unit extending through the slots of the third and fourth links, the second arm having an axis passing through the rotation point. 26. The joint of claim 20 wherein the actuator includes a first push/pull rod connected to the first center link and a second push/pull rod connected to the second center link. 27. The joint of claim 23 wherein the first kite linkage includes a first slip ring supported by the center linkage for rotation about the rotation point, and a first pair of coupler links connected between the first slip ring and the first and third links, and the second kite linkage includes a second slip ring supported by the center linkage for rotation about the rotation point, and a second pair of coupler links connected between the second slip ring and the second and fourth links. 28. The joint of claim 27 wherein the first pair of coupler links are pivotally connected at one end to the first slip ring, one coupler link of the first pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the first link, the other coupler link of the first pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the third link, and the second pair of coupler links are pivotally connected at one end to the second slip ring, one coupler link of the second pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the second link, the other coupler link of the second pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the fourth link. 29. A mechanical joint, comprising: a first center link being rotatable about a rotation point; a second center link coupled to the first center link being rotatable about the rotation point and relative to the first center link; a first hoop pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a first axis passing through the rotation point; and a second hoop pivotally coupled to the second center link at a fixed angle relative to the first hoop to pivot about a second axis passing through the rotation point. 30. The joint of claim 29 further comprising a third hoop pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a third axis passing through the rotation point. 31. The joint of claim 29 further comprising a first carriage unit interconnecting the first and second hoops at the fixed angle, the first carriage unit supporting a first arm having an axis passing through the rotation point. 32. The joint of claim 30 further comprising a fourth hoop pivotally coupled to the second center link at a fixed angle relative to the third hoop to pivot about a fourth axis passing through the rotation point. 33. The joint of claim 31 wherein each of the first and second hoops includes a slot, the first arm passing through the first hoop slot and the second hoop slot. 34. The joint of claim 32 wherein the first axis is coaxial with the third axis thereby defining a first common axis and the second axis is coaxial with the fourth axis, thereby defining a second common axis. 35. The joint of claim 34 further comprising a first kite linkage constraining the first and third hoops to pivot about the first common axis in mirror image relationship to one another, and a second kite linkage constraining the second and fourth hoops to pivot about the second common axis in mirror image relationship to one another. 36. The joint of claim 35 wherein the first kite linkage includes a first slip ring coupled to the first center link for rotation about the rotation point and the second kite linkage includes a second slip ring coupled to the first center link for rotation about the rotation point. 37. A joint, comprising: first and second interconnected, circular equator links lying substantially in an equator plane, each equator link being rotatable relative to the other equator link within the equator plane about a center point, the first equator link carrying a pair of pivot blocks aligned on a first axis bisecting the first equator link and passing through the center point, the second equator link carrying a pair of pivot blocks aligned on a second axis bisecting the second equator link and passing through the center point; a first pair of semicircular links pivotally connected between the pivot blocks of the first equator link disposed on opposite sides of the equator plane; a second pair of semicircular links pivotally connected between the pivot blocks of the second equator link disposed on opposite sides of the plane; a first carriage unit interconnecting one of the semicircular links of the first pair of semicircular links to one of the semicircular links of the second pair of semicircular links in a fixed angular relationship; a second carriage unit interconnecting the other of the semicircular links of the first pair of semicircular links to the other of the semicircular links of the second pair of semicircular links in a fixed angular relationship. 38. The joint of claim 37 further comprising a mechanical constraint apparatus coupled to the first and second pairs of semicircular links, the mechanical constraint apparatus imposing a mirror image relationship about the equator plane between the semicircular links of the first pair of semicircular links and between the semicircular links of the second pair of semicircular links. 39. The joint of claim 37 wherein the fixed angular relationship between the one semicircular links is ninety degrees and the fixed angular relationship between the other semicircular links is ninety degrees. 40. The joint of claim 37 wherein the one semicircular link of the first pair of semicircular links is radially larger than the one semicircular link of the second pair of semicircular links, and the other semicircular link of the first pair of semicircular links is radially smaller than the other semicircular link of the second pair of semicircular links. 41. The joint of claim 37 wherein the first carriage unit interconnects the one semicircular links in overlapping relationship at a first overlap point and the second carriage unit interconnects the other semicircular links in overlapping relationship at a second overlap point. 42. The joint of claim 37 wherein the mechanical constraint apparatus includes a first pair of gear packs disposed within the first equator link pivot blocks in operable association with the first pair of semicircular links, and a second pair of gear packs disposed within the second equator link pivot blocks in operable association with the second pair of semicircular links. 43. The joint of claim 37 wherein the mechanical constraint apparatus includes first and second slip rings disposed in bearing relationship with the first equator link, a first pair of coupler links pivotally connected between the first slip ring and the first pair of semicircular links for moving the first pair of semicircular links according to a mirror image relationship about the equator plane, and a second pair of coupler links pivotally connected between the second slip ring and the second pair of semicircular links for moving the second pair of semicircular links according to a mirror image relationship about the equator plane. 44. The joint of claim 41 wherein the first carriage unit supports a first arm in fixed, offset relationship to the first overlap point, and the second carriage unit supports a second arm in fixed, offset relationship to the second overlap point. 45. The joint of claim 44 wherein the first arm has an axis passing through the center point and the first overlap point, and the second arm has an axis passing through the center point and the second overlap point. 46. The joint of claim 45 wherein each of the semicircular links includes a slot, the first overlap point being within the slots of the semicircular links coupled to the first carriage unit, the second overlap point being within the slots of the semicircular links coupled to the second carriage unit. 47. A linkage for constraining the movement of a pair of adjustable links disposed in adjacent hemispheres of a mechanical joint having an equator, comprising: a slip ring adapted for rotation about the equator; and a pair of coupler links movably connected at one end to the slip ring, one of the coupler links being movably connected at the other end to one of the adjustable links, the other of the coupler links being movably connected at the other end to the other of the adjustable links. 48. A mechanical joint, comprising: a center linkage including a first and second center link, each rotatable about a rotation point; a first link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a first axis passing through the rotation point; a second link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the second center link to pivot about a second axis passing through the rotation point; a third link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a third axis passing through the rotation point; a fourth link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the second center link to pivot about a fourth axis passing through the rotation point; a first carriage unit interconnecting the first and second links at a fixed angle at a first point of overlap; a second carriage unit interconnecting the third and fourth links at a fixed angle at a second point of overlap; wherein the first and third axes are coaxial, thereby defining a first common axis, and the second and fourth axes are coaxial, thereby defining a second common axis; an actuator in operable association with the center linkage and the first, second, third, and fourth links for controllably rotating the first and second center links about the rotation point, and controllably pivoting the first and third links about the first common axis, and the second and fourth links about the second common axis; and wherein the actuator includes a first push/pull rod connected to the first center link and a second push/pull rod connected to the second center link. 49. A mechanical joint, comprising: a center linkage including a first and second center link, each rotatable about a rotation point; a first link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a first axis passing through the rotation point; a second link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the second center link to pivot about a second axis passing through the rotation point; a third link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a third axis passing through the rotation point; a fourth link having a pair of ends pivotally coupled to the second center link to pivot about a fourth axis passing through the rotation point; a first carriage unit interconnecting the first and second links at a fixed angle at a first point of overlap; a second carriage unit interconnecting the third and fourth links at a fixed angle at a second point of overlap; wherein the first and third axes are coaxial, thereby defining a first common axis, and the second and fourth axes are coaxial, thereby defining a second common axis; and a first kite linkage for constraining the movement of the first and third links so that the first and third links pivot in mirror image relationship relative to one another about the first common axis, and a second kite linkage for constraining the movement of the second and fourth links so that the second and fourth links pivot in mirror image relationship relative to one another about the second common axis. 50. The joint of claim 49 wherein the first kite linkage includes a first slip ring supported by the center linkage for rotation about the rotation point, and a first pair of coupler links connected between the first slip ring and the first and third links, and the second kite linkage includes a second slip ring supported by the center linkage for rotation about the rotation point, and a second pair of coupler links connected between the second slip ring and the second and fourth links. 51. The joint of claim 50 wherein the first pair of coupler links are pivotally connected at one end to the first slip ring, one coupler link of the first pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the first link, the other coupler link of the first pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the third link, and the second pair of coupler links are pivotally connected at one end to the second slip ring, one coupler link of the second pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the second link, the other coupler link of the second pair of coupler links being pivotally connected at the other end to the fourth link. 52. A mechanical joint, comprising: a first center link being rotatable about a rotation point; a second center link coupled to the first center link being rotatable about the rotation point and relative to the first center link; a first hoop pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a first axis passing through the rotation point; a second hoop pivotally coupled to the second center link at a fixed angle relative to the first hoop to pivot about a second axis passing through the rotation point; a third hoop pivotally coupled to the first center link to pivot about a third axis passing through the rotation point; a fourth hoop pivotally coupled to the second center link at a fixed angle relative to the third hoop to pivot about a fourth axis passing through the rotation point; wherein the first axis is coaxial with the third axis thereby defining a first common axis and the second axis is coaxial with the fourth axis, thereby defining a second common axis; and a first kite linkage constraining the first and third hoops to pivot about the first common axis in mirror image relationship to one another, and a second kite linkage constraining the second and fourth hoops to pivot about the second common axis in mirror image relationship to one another. 53. The joint of claim 52 wherein the first kite linkage includes a first slip ring coupled to the first center link for rotation about the rotation point and the second kite linkage includes a second slip ring coupled to the first center link for rotation about the rotation point. 54. A joint, comprising: first and second interconnected, circular equator links lying substantially in an equator plane, each equator link being rotatable relative to the other equator link within the equator plane about a center point, the first equator link carrying a pair of pivot blocks aligned on a first axis bisecting the first equator link and passing through the center point, the second equator link carrying a pair of pivot blocks aligned on a second axis bisecting the second equator link and passing through the center point; a first pair of semicircular links pivotally connected between the pivot blocks of the first equator link disposed on opposite sides of the equator plane; a second pair of semicircular links pivotally connected between the pivot blocks of the second equator link disposed on opposite sides of the plane; a first carriage unit interconnecting one of the semicircular links of the first pair of semicircular links to one of the semicircular links of the second pair of semicircular links in a fixed angular relationship; a second carriage unit interconnecting the other of the semicircular links of the first pair of semicircular links to the other of the semicircular links of the second pair of semicircular links in a fixed angular relationship; and wherein the mechanical constraint apparatus includes first and second slip rings disposed in bearing relationship with the first equator link, a first pair of coupler links pivotally connected between the first slip ring and the first pair of semicircular links for moving the first pair of semicircular links according to a mirror image relationship about the equator plane, and a second pair of coupler links pivotally connected between the second slip ring and the second pair of semicircular links for moving the second pair of semicircular links according to a mirror image relationship about the equator plane. 