A self-aligning end effector is mounted to a robot for transferring a magnetic read/write head from a feeder to an assembly fixture. The robot positions the end effector above the head. A hollow needle extends from the end effector adjacent to the head. A vacuum is applied through the needle to draw the head to the end of the needle and the end effector is lifted away from the feeder. As the robot moves the end effector toward the assembly fixture, a nest with an alignment locator is lowered onto the head. The locator has tapered sides for orienting the head in a precise alignment. An upper surface of the head seats against a flat surface when it is aligned. The vacuum holds the head on the end effector throughout this operation. The nest is then withdrawn from the head so that it is again located on the end of the needle. When the end effector is located above the assembly fixture, the head is released into the assembly fixture by turning off the vacuum.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for aligning a component during an automated assembly process, comprising: (a) providing a base with an alignment member having a recess and a hole in the recess for accommodating an engagement member extending therethrough; (b) moving the base so that the engagement member is adjacent to the component; (c) picking up the component with an end of the engagement member; (d) moving one of the alignment member and the engagement member relative to the other such that the component enters the recess and aligns relative to the engagement member; (e) moving said one of the alignment member and the engagement member such that the end of the engagement member detaches from the component while the component is maintained in the recess and the alignment member extends beyond the end of the engagement member; (f) moving the base such that the component is adjacent to an assembly fixture; and then (g) releasing the component into the assembly fixture. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of tapering the recess to facilitate entry and alignment of the component relative to the engagement member. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein step (d) comprises moving the alignment member relative to the engagement member. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of forming tapered sidewalls and a backstop in the recess for orienting the component relative to the engagement member so that an upper surface of the component seats against the backstop when the component is aligned. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein step (c) comprises evacuating the engagement member to pick up the component, and wherein step (g) comprises terminating the vacuum in the engagement member to release the component. 