The invention provides an elastic actuator consisting of a motor and a motor drive transmission connected at an output of the motor. An elastic element is connected in series with the motor drive transmission, and this elastic element is positioned to alone support the full weight of any load connected at an output of the actuator. A single force transducer is positioned at a point between a mount for the motor and an output of the actuator. This force transducer generates a force signal, based on deflection of the elastic element, that indicates force applied by the elastic element to an output of the actuator. An active feedback force control loop is connected between the force transducer and the motor for controlling the motor. This motor control is based on the force signal to deflect the elastic element an amount that produces a desired actuator output force. The produced output force is substantially independent of load motion. The invention also provides a torsional spring consisting of a flexible structure having at least three flat sections each connected integrally with and extending radially from a central section. Each flat section extends axially along the central section from a distal end of the central section to a proximal end of the central section.
Claims We claim: 1. An elastic actuator having force control, the actuator comprising: a motor; a motor drive transmission connected at an output of the motor; at least one torsional spring connected in series with the motor drive transmission, the at least one torsional spring positioned to fully support along either direction of an actuation axis, a load connected at least one output of the actuator, as the load is actuated along either direction the actuation axis, the torsional spring comprising a flexible structure having at least three flat segments, each segment connected integrally with and extending radially from a central section, and each segment extending axially along the central section from a distal end of the central section to a proximal end of the central section; a single force transducer positioned at a point between a mount for the motor and at least one output of the actuator, the force transducer generating a force signal indicating force applied by the torsional spring to at least one output of the actuator; and an active feedback force controller connected between the torsional spring and the motor for controlling the motor, based on the force signal, to twist the torsional spring an amount that produces a desired actuator output force, the output force being substantially independent of load motion. 2. A torsional spring comprising a flexible structure having at least three flat segments, each segment connected integrally with and extending radially from a central section and each segment extending axially along the central section from a distal end of the central section to a proximal end of the central section, the connection of each segment to the central section having a fillet radius that is less than about a maximum radius, r.sub.max, which is inversely proportional to a maximum sustainable spring torque that is about the same as that maximum sustainable torque corresponding to a flat plate torsional spring having a width about equal to a sum of radial lengths of the flat segments. 3. The torsional spring of claim 2 wherein the flexible structure comprises steel. 4. The torsional spring of claim 2 wherein the flexible structure has four flat segments each connected integrally with the central section at a right angle with respect to adjacent flat segments. 5. The torsional spring of claim 4 further comprising a first mounting block integrally connected with the distal end of the central section and a second mounting block integrally connected with the proximal end of the central section. 6. The torsional spring of claim 5 wherein the first and second mounting blocks each comprise a central annulus. 7. The torsional spring of claim 4 further comprising a cylindrical section extending from the central section proximal end to the central section distal end and integrally connected with a radial edge of each flat segment. 8. The torsional spring of claim 2 wherein the connection of each segment to the central section has a fillet radius that is less than about a maximum radius, r.sub.max, which is inversely proportional to a maximum sustainable spring torque that is about 1.25 times the maximum sustainable torque corresponding to a flat plate torsional spring having a width about equal to a sum of radial lengths of the flat segments. 9. The torsional spring of claim 8 wherein the connection of each segment to the central section has a fillet radius that is less than about a maximum radius, r.sub.max, which is inversely proportional to a maximum sustainable spring torque that is about 1.4 times the maximum sustainable torque corresponding to a flat plate torsional spring having a width about equal to a sum of radial lengths of the flat segments. 10. The torsional spring of claim 2 further comprising at least one strain gauge element mounted on at least one of the flat segments. 11. The torsional spring of claim 10 wherein the at least one strain gauge element comprises at least two strain gauge elements, configured in a half-bridge circuit. 12. The torsional spring of claim 11 wherein the at least two strain gauge elements comprise four strain gauge elements, configured in a full-bridge circuit. 13. The torsional spring of claim 2 further comprising a potentiometer having a shaft connected to communicate with one of the central section distal and proximal ends and a body connected to communicate with the other of the distal and proximal ends. 14. The torsional spring of claim 2 further comprising a shaft encoder having an encoder wheel connected to communicate with one of the central section distal and proximal ends and a body connected to communicate with the other of the distal and proximal ends. 15. The torsional spring of claim 7 wherein the central section comprises an open channel. 