A processing system for processing a plurality of products, the system including a plurality of interchangeable units arranged to sequentially receive the products and each having a work station for effecting a specific operation on each of the products, the operation requiring a given time period; and wherein each work station accommodates simultaneously a predetermined number of the products, and the given time period and predetermined number associated with each unit are different than the given time periods and predetermined numbers of other said units. A transport system transports the products through the processing system so as to provide for each product a common occupancy time therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing system for processing a plurality of products, said system comprising: a plurality of interchangeable units interconnected in a series arrangement to sequentially receive the products and each having a work station for effecting a specific operation on each of the products, said operation requiring a given time period; and wherein each said work station accommodates simultaneously a predetermined number of the products, and said given time period and predetermined number associated with each said unit are different than said given time periods and predetermined numbers of other said units; and wherein said predetermined number and given time period of each unit are such as to accommodate for each unit a selected product throughput rate; and a transport system for sequentially transporting the products through each of said units at said selected throughput rate so as to provide for each product a common occupancy time in the processing system. 2. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein at least some of said units are interconnected in a rectilinear array that accommodates movement of the products in a rectilinear path. 3. A processing system according to claim 2 wherein each said unit comprises electrical connector means automatically coupled to said connector means of adjacent units in response to interconnection thereof. 4. A processing system according to claim 3 wherein said connector means of each unit comprise a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with said connectors of straddling units. 5. A processing system according to claim 4 wherein said connectors are disposed in uniform locations of each unit. 6. A processing system according to claim 5 wherein the system is a chemical screening system and the products are chemical assays. 7. A processing system according to claim 6 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 8. A processing system according to claim 7 wherein said units include a corner unit connected to one end of said rectilinear array and shaped and arranged to provide movement of the products in a direction transverse to said rectilinear path. 9. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein each said unit comprises electrical connector means automatically coupled to said connector means of adjacent units in response to interconnection thereof. 10. A processing system according to claim 9 wherein said connector means of each unit comprise a pair of connectors shaped and arranged for connection with said connectors of straddling units. 11. A processing system according to claim 10 wherein said connectors are disposed in uniform locations of each unit. 12. A processing system according to claim 11 wherein said units include a corner unit connected to one end of said rectilinear array and shaped and arranged to provide movement of the products in a direction transverse to said rectilinear path. 13. A processing system according to claim 12 wherein said units include a corner unit connected to one end of said rectilinear array and shaped and arranged to provide movement of the products in a direction transverse to said rectilinear path. 14. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein the system is a chemical screening system and the products are chemical assays. 15. A processing system according to claim 1 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 16. A method for processing products and comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of interchangeable units, each having a work station; interconnecting said units in a predetermined series arrangement; transporting the products sequentially through said units so as to maintain in each said work station a predetermined number of products different than the predetermined number of products in other said work stations; effecting on the products in each said work station a specific operation, said specific operation in each said work station requiring a given time period different than the time periods required in other said work stations; and wherein said predetermined number and given time period of each unit are such as to accommodate for each unit a selected product throughput rate; and controlling said transporting step so as to establish said selected throughput rate for each unit and provide for each product a common occupancy time in said system. 17. A method for processing products according to claim 16 wherein said interconnecting step comprises the steps of interconnecting some of said units into a first rectilinear array and interconnecting other said units in a second array disposed transverse to said first array. 18. A method for processing products according to claim 17 wherein each said unit is supported on rollers to provide mobility. 19. A method for processing products according to claim 16 wherein the system is a chemical screening system and the products are chemical assays. 20. A method for processing products according to claim 19 including the steps of loading said chemical assays into individual receptacles prior to said transporting steps, and wherein said operations comprise incubation, receptacle washing and reagent addition operations. 