A plurality of separate semiconductor chips, each having a contact-bearing surface and contacts on such surface, are disposed in an array so that the contact-bearing surfaces face and define a first surface of the array. A flexible, dielectric sheet with terminals thereon overlies the first or contact bearing surface of the semiconductor chips. Elongated leads are disposed between the dielectric element and the semiconductor chips. Each lead has a first end connected to a terminal on the dielectric element, and a second end connected to a contact on a semiconductor chip in the array. All of the leads are formed simultaneously by moving the dielectric element and the array relative to one another to simultaneously displace all of the first ends of the leads relative to all of the second ends. The dielectric element is subdivided after the forming step so as to leave one region of the dielectric element connected to each chip and thereby form individual units each including one chip, or a small number of chips.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A chip array comprising a holding element and a plurality of separate chips each having a contact-bearing surface with a plurality of electrical contacts thereon, said chips being releasably secured in an array on said holding element so that said contact-bearing surfaces face upwardly away from the holding element and thereby define a first surface of said array with said contacts being exposed at said first surface, said contacts on said chips being disposed in at preselected locations relative to one another. 2. A chip array as claimed in claim 1 wherein said holding element includes a rigid plate and said chips are releasably secured on said rigid plate. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said holding element includes a plate having holes therein and said chips are releasably secured to said plate by vacuum applied through said holes in said plate. 4. A chip array as claimed in claim 2 wherein each said chip has a back surface facing away from the contact-bearing surface of the chip, said back surfaces of said chips being releasably bonded to said holding element. 5. A chip assembly including a plurality of separate chips each having a front surface a plurality of edges bounding the front surface and rows of contacts on said front surface adjacent said edges, the assembly further including a holding element, said chips being releasably secured to said holding element, said holding element supporting said chips so that said front surfaces are substantially co-planar and so that at least some of said edges are spaced apart from one another. 6. A chip array as claimed in claim 5 wherein said chips are substantially rectangular said holding element supports said chips in a rectilinear grid. 7. Apparatus for securing semiconductor chips to a sheet characterized by (a) a plurality of chip-side elements, each said chip-side element including means for securing a plurality of chips to such chip-side element; (b) a plurality of sheet-side elements, each said sheet-side element including means for securing a dielectric sheet thereto; (c) means for securing said sheet-side and chip-side elements to one another to form cartridges, each said cartridge including one chip-side and one sheet-side element; (d) a movement station including means for moving the sheet-side and chip-side elements of a cartridge relative to one another through a preselected motion to thereby displace the chips carried by the chip-side element and the sheet carried by the sheet-side element relative to one another; and (e) means for presenting said cartridges seriatim to said movement station with said chips and sheets therein and with said chips and sheets connected one another by leads extending between said chips and said sheets, whereby said leads will be deformed upon said movement in said movement station. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 further characterized by means for injecting a curable material between the chips and sheet carried in each said cartridge, a storage element and means for transferring each said cartridge from said injecting means to said storage element. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said injecting means is disposed at said movement station. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said storage element includes a heated storage region. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein said means for presenting includes chip attach means for accepting a plurality of separate semiconductor chips, securing said chips to a dielectric sheet held by one said sheet-side element and bonding leads carried by the chips or the sheet so as to connect the leads between the chips and sheet, said means for presenting further including means for engaging one said chip-side element with the chips secured to a sheet. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said means for presenting includes means for aligning a chip-side element bearing a unitary wafer including a plurality of chips with a sheet-side element bearing a dielectric sheet to thereby align all of said chips with said sheet. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein said chip attach means includes a chuck for temporarily holding a chip, a heater for heating said chuck to thereby heat the chip, means for moving said chuck relative to a sheet-side element so as to register a chip held by said chuck with a sheet held by such sheet-side element and means for advancing the chuck towards the sheet-side element to thereby advance the chip into engagement with the sheet. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said means for moving said chuck includes means for detecting the positions of features of the sheet and features of the chip held by the chuck and controlling the relative movement of the chuck responsive to the detected positions. 15. Apparatus for securing semiconductor chips to a sheet comprising: (a) a plurality of cartridges, each said cartridge including a chip-side element and a sheet-side element, each such cartridge being constructed and arranged to hold a sheet on the sheet-side element of such cartridge and a plurality of chips on the chip-side element with leads extending between the sheet carried on the sheet-side element and the chips carried by the chip-side element; (b) a movement station including an actuator engagable with said cartridges seriatim, said actuator being operative to move the sheet-side and chip-side elements of a cartridge engaged with said actuator relative to one another through a preselected motion, whereby each said cartridge can be engaged with said actuator and then removed from said movement station after movement of the elements constituting that cartridge. 16. Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 further comprising a source of a curable material for injecting said curable material between the chips and sheet carried in each said cartridge. 17. Apparatus as claimed in claim 15 wherein further comprising a die attach station separate from said movement station, said die attach station including a chuck for temporarily holding a chip, a heater for heating said chuck to thereby heat the chip, and a die advancing actuator for advancing the chuck towards a sheet to thereby advance the chip into engagement with such sheet and bond leads between the sheet and the chip before such sheet and chip are engaged between the elements of one of said cartridges. 18. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein said source of curable material is arranged to inject said curable material between the chips and sheet carried in each said cartridge while such cartridge is at said movement station. 19. Apparatus as claimed in claim 18 wherein said storage element includes a heated storage region. 20. Apparatus as claimed in claim 16 further comprising a storage element for holding said cartridges after said cartridges have been removed from said movement station. 21. Apparatus as claimed in claim 17 wheren said die attach station further includes a die registration actuator for moving said chuck relative to a sheet element so as to register a chip held by said chuck with the sheet. 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein said die attach station further includes a robotic vision and control system for detecting the positions of features of a sheet at said die attach station and features of the chip held by the chuck and controlling the relative movement of the chuck responsive to the detected positions. 