An apparatus and method for providing an integrated processing system allowing for the isolation of non-compatible processes used to deposit a material onto a semiconductor wafer and/or remove material from a wafer is described. The integrated processing system of the present invention is comprised of a first processing chamber for processing a substrate in a first environment coupled to a second processing chamber for processing a substrate in a second environment. A connecting interface coupled to the first and second processing chambers allows the first and second processing chambers to be isolated from each other as needed. Further, the connecting interface allows a wafer to be transferred from the first processing chamber to the second processing chamber within a controlled environment. The first and second processing chambers may be or may include cluster tools.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for processing a substrate, comprising: a first processing chamber for processing the substrate in a low pressure first environment; a second processing chamber for electroplating the substrate in a second environment different than the first environment; and a connecting interface coupled to said first and second processing chambers for transporting the substrate between said first processing chamber and said second processing chamber in a controlled environment, wherein said first processing chamber and said second processing chamber may be isolated by said connecting interface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first environment is a low pressure environment. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second environment is at ambient pressure. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first processing chamber applies a barrier layer and a seed layer to the substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first processing chamber is a cluster tool for processing the substrate. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said second processing chamber is a cluster tool for processing the substrate. 7. An apparatus for processing a substrate, comprising: a first cluster tool including a first processing chamber for processing the substrate in a low pressure first environment; a second cluster tool including a second processing chamber for electroplating the substrate in a second environment different than the first environment; and, a connecting interface coupled to said first and second cluster tools for transporting the substrate between said first cluster tool and said second cluster tool in a controlled environment, wherein said first cluster tool and said second cluster tool may be isolated by said connecting interface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said first cluster tool has a first wafer handling mechanism with at least one first processing chamber coupled thereto, and said second cluster tool has a second wafer handling mechanism with at least one second processing chamber coupled thereto. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first wafer handling mechanism transfers the substrate from said at least one first processing chamber to said connecting interface, and said second wafer handling mechanism transfers the substrate from said connecting interface to said at least one second processing chamber. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said first environment is a low pressure environment. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said second environment is at ambient pressure. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said first processing chamber applies a barrier layer and a seed layer to the substrate. 13. A method of processing a substrate, comprising the steps of: providing a first processing chamber for processing the substrate in a first environment; placing the substrate in said first processing chamber; processing the substrate in said first processing chamber; providing a connecting interface coupled to said first processing chamber; providing a second processing chamber for processing the substrate in a second environment different than the first environment, said second processing chamber coupled to said connecting interface; transferring the substrate from said first processing chamber through said connecting interface into said second processing chamber, such that said first processing chamber is environmentally isolated from said second processing chamber; and electroplating the substrate in said second processing chamber. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of providing a first processing chamber further includes providing a cluster tool for processing said substrate. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of providing a second processing chamber further includes providing a cluster tool for processing said substrate. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of processing the substrate in said first processing chamber further includes processing said substrate in a low pressure environment. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of processing the substrate in said second processing chamber further includes processing the substrate at ambient pressure. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said step of processing the substrate in said first processing chamber further includes providing a barrier layer and a seed layer on the substrate. 