A laser welding apparatus for use in industrial processing, which is operable to emit laser energy to weld blanks and the like together along a seamline. The emitted laser energy comprises a multiple beam of two or more coherent light sources. The apparatus is adapted to selectively reposition the orientation of the multiple beam relative to the seamline to compensate for gaps between the abutting portions of the workpieces to be joined.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for joining together proximal edge portions of two workpiece blanks along a seamline comprising, a laser for emitting a composite beam to weld said blanks together along said seamline, said composite beam including a first laser beam and a second laser beam, each of said first and second laser beams being focused towards a portion of said blanks to be welded at respective focal areas having an optic centre, wherein the optic centres of said first and second laser beams are offset from each other and each define one end of a focal line of said composite beam, rotation mechanism for selectively altering the orientation of said composite beam to move said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks between a position wherein said focal line is oriented out of alignment with said portion of said seamline, and a position wherein said focal line is oriented substantially aligned with said portion of said seamline, a sensing device for sensing spacing between the abutting edge portions of the blanks at said portion of said blanks, and a controller for controlling the rotation mechanism in response to the sensed spacing to change the orientation of said composite beam and move said focal line to a preset orientation relative to said portion of said blanks to be welded. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said optic centres are offset from each other by a distance between about 0.1 mm to 3 mm. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the focal area of each of said first and second laser beams at said seamline has a divergence radius selected at between about 0.2 mm and 1 mm. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said sensing device comprises a coherent light source, and a sensor for sensing light from said coherent light source. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said laser includes a laser head which is movable along a path substantially aligned with said seamline, and said apparatus further includes a drive motor activatable to move said laser head along said path, and wherein the speed of movement of said laser head along said path is related to operating factors selected from the group consisting of the sensed spacing and the position of said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks to be welded. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the focal area of each of said first and second laser beams has a divergence radius selected at between about 0.2 mm and 1 mm at said seamline. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said sensing device comprises a coherent light source, and a sensor for sensing light from said coherent light source. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said laser device comprises a yttrium aluminum garnet laser. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said composite laser beam further includes a third laser beam, said third laser beam being focused towards said blanks at a focal area having an optic centre, wherein the optic centre of the third laser beam is intersected by the focal line. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said composite laser beam further includes a third laser beam, said third laser beam being focused towards said blanks at a focal area having an optic centre, wherein the optic centre of the third laser beam is spaced from the focal line. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said optic centres are offset a distance between about 0.1 mm to 3 mm. 12. A laser apparatus for welding together abutting edge portions of two sheet blanks along a seamline, the apparatus comprising: a laser head operable to emit laser energy to weld said blanks together along the seamline, a rotation mechanism for rotating the laser head and change the orientation of said laser energy relative said seamline, a sensor apparatus for sensing spacing between the abutting edge portions of the blanks, and a controller for controlling the rotation mechanism in response to the sensed spacing, wherein said laser energy comprises a multiple beam of at least two offset laser beams. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12, herein said sensor apparatus comprises a coherent light source, and a sensor for sensing light from said coherent light source. 14. A method of using an apparatus to join together abutting portions of two workpiece blanks along a seamline, the apparatus including, laser device for emitting a composite beam to weld said blanks together along said seamline, said composite beam including a first laser beam and a second laser beam, each of said first and second laser beams being focused towards a portion of said blanks to be welded at respective focal areas having an optic centre, wherein the optic centres of said first and second laser beams are offset from each other and each define one end of a focal line of said composite beam, a rotation mechanism for selectively varying the orientation of said output composite beam to move said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks between a position wherein said focal line is oriented our of alignment with said portion of said seamline, and a position wherein said focal line is oriented substantially aligned with said portion of said seamline, wherein said abutting portions of said workpiece blanks are joined by the steps of: activating said laser device to direct said composite beam towards said seamline, moving said composite laser beam and said sheet blanks relative to each other to move said focal line along said portion of said blanks to be welded, substantially simultaneously with said step of moving, activating said rotation mechanism to move said focal line relative to said portion of said seamline to a preset position determined by the spacing between the workpiece blanks at said portion. 15. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein during said step of moving said laser beam, said laser beam and said sheet blanks are moved relative to each other at a speed determined by at least one of the position of the focal line relative to the portion of the blanks to be welded and the spacing between the workpiece blanks at said portion. 16. A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein said apparatus further includes a sensor for sensing spacing between the abutting portions of the blanks, and wherein said method includes the further step of sensing the spacing between the adjacent portions of the blanks at said portion of said blanks to be welded prior to moving said focal line therealong, and wherein said preset position of said focal line is determined by the sensed spacing between the adjacent portions of the blanks. 17. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein said apparatus further includes a sensor for sensing spacing between the abutting portions of the blanks, and wherein said method includes the further step of sensing the spacing between the adjacent portions of the blanks at said portion of said blanks to be welded, and wherein said preset position of said focal line is determined by the sensed spacing between the adjacent portions of the blanks. 18. An apparatus for joining together proximal edge portions of two workpiece blanks along a seamline comprising, an emit for emitting a composite energy beam to weld said blanks together along said seamline, said composite energy beam including a first energy beam and a second energy beam, each of said first and second energy beams being focused towards a portion of said blanks to be welded at respective focal areas having a centre, wherein the centres of said first and second energy beams are offset from each other and each define one end of a focal line of said composite energy beam, a sensor for sensing any spacing between the proximal edge portions of the blanks, and a controller for changing the beam intensity per unit area selected from the group consisting of, a rotation drive for selectively rotating said emitter for emitting said composite energy beam to move said focal line relative to said portion of said blanks between a position wherein said focal line is oriented out of alignment with said portion of said seamline, and a position wherein said focal line is oriented substantially aligned with said portion of said seamline, a drive for moving said emitter for emitting said composite energy beam along said seamline, said drive activatable to vary the speed of movement of said energy beam depending on the sensed spacing between the proximal edge portions of the blanks, and a power regulating control to vary the composite energy beam energy output depending on the sensed spacing between the proximal edge portions of the blanks. 19. The apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said first and second energy beams each comprise a coherent light source. 