A vehicle body welding system includes a work station for welding components of a preassembled body with respect to one another. The body is moveable along a fixed path of travel through the work station. At least two moveable pillars are located on each side of the fixed path of travel through the work station for synchronized reciprocation between first and second end limits of travel toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the body. At least one gate is connectible in a repeatable located position with respect to the moveable pillars on each side of the fixed path for synchronized reciprocation between first and second positions toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the body. Locating members are engageable between each pillar and the corresponding gate for locating the gate with respect to the moveable pillar in at least two dimensions. The locating members include at least two vertically spaced locators on each pillar for defining a vertical position and a horizontal position along an axis normal to the fixed path, and a moveable locator for locating the gate in a predetermined position along an axis parallel with respect to the fixed path of travel of the body, when the moveable locator is in a first position, and for allowing movement of the gate with respect to the pillars, when the moveable locator is in a second position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an apparatus for supporting a frame for movement relative to a workpiece to be processed at a work station, the improvement comprising: at least two moveable pillars on each side of a fixed path of travel through the work station for synchronized reciprocation between first and second end limits of travel toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the workpiece; at least one gate connectible in a repeatable located position with respect to the moveable pillars on each side of the fixed path for synchronized reciprocation between first and second positions toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the workpiece; gate drive means engageable with a registered gate located in the repeatable located position on the at least two pillars for moving the registered gate alone the fixed path of travel of the workpiece to remove the registered gate from the at least two pillars, and engageable with a replacement gate for moving the replacement gate into registry with the at least two pillars in the repeatable located position as the previously registered gate is removed; and locating means engageable between each pillar and the corresponding gate for locating the gate with respect to the moveable pillar in at least two dimensions. 2. The improvement of claim 1 wherein the locating means further comprises: at least two vertically spaced locators on each pillar for defining a vertical position and a horizontal position along an axis normal to the fixed path. 3. The improvement of claim 2 wherein the locating means further comprises: the vertically spaced locators on one pillar offset with respect to the vertically spaced locators on the other pillar, such that the gate engages with the vertically spaced locators on each pillar only when immediately adjacent the repeatable located position. 4. The improvement of claim 2 wherein each of the vertically spaced locators further comprises: a pocket defined by at least two locating rollers having vertical axes of rotation spaced horizontally from one another a sufficient distance for receiving at least one vertically extending locator surface releasibly between the two rollers. 5. The improvement of claim 4 wherein each of the locating rollers has a leading alignment roller and a trailing alignment roller for aligning the vertically extending locator surface with the locator rollers prior to engagement between the locator rollers and the locator surface. 6. The improvement of claim 2 wherein at least one of the vertically spaced locators on each pillar further comprises: at least one locating roller having a horizontal axis of rotation for releasibly engaging a horizontally extending locator surface. 7. The improvement of claim 6 wherein the locating roller has a leading alignment roller and a trailing alignment roller for aligning the horizontally extending locator surface with the locator roller prior to engagement between the locator roller and the locator surface. 8. The improvement of claim 1 wherein the locating means further comprises: a moveable locator for locating the gate in a predetermined position along an axis parallel with respect to the fixed path of travel of the workpiece when the moveable locator is in a first position and for allowing movement of the gate with respect to the pillars when the moveable locator is in a second position. 9. The improvement of claim 8 wherein the moveable locator further comprises: a pocket defined by at least two locating rollers having vertical axes of rotation spaced horizontally from one another a sufficient distance for receiving at least one vertically extending locator surface releasibly between the two rollers. 10. The improvement of claim 1 further comprising: means for indexing a gate between a ready position corresponding to the repeatable located position on the pillars and a standby position spaced from the pillars. 11. In an apparatus for supporting a frame for movement relative to a workpiece to be processed at a work station, the improvement comprising: a base frame extending transversely with respect to a fixed path of travel at the work station, the workpiece accurately positionable with respect to the base frame at the work station; at least one pillar on each side of the fixed path of travel at the work station and mounted on the base frame for reciprocal movement transversely with respect to the fixed path of travel, each pillar moveable between a first position allowing entry and accurate positioning of the workpiece with respect to the base frame and allowing entry of other components into the work station, and a second position for accurately locating and clamping the other components with respect to the workpiece; at least one gate connectible in a repeatable located position with respect to the moveable pillar on each side of a fixed path of travel of the workpiece for synchronized reciprocation between first and second positions toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the workpiece; gate drive means engageable with a registered gate located in the repeatable located position on the at least one pillar for moving the registered gate along the fixed path of travel of the workpiece to remove the registered gate from the at least one pillar, and engageable with a replacement gate for moving the replacement gate into registry with the at least one pillar in the repeatable located position while the previously registered gate is removed; and at least one welder on each side of the fixed path of travel for fixedly connecting the other components to the workpiece at the work station while the pillars are in the second position. 12. The system of claim 11 further comprising: at least one rail on each side of the fixed path of travel for guiding the pillar in movement between the first and second positions. 13. The system of claim 11 further comprising: at least one drive on each side of the fixed path of travel for reciprocally moving the pillar between the first and second positions. 14. The system of claim 11 further comprising: at least one gate on each side of the fixed path of travel and supportable on the pillar for movement between the first and second positions. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising: at least one lift on each side of the fixed path of travel for moving the gate from a seated position supported by the pillar to an unseated position disengaged from the pillar, the lift engageable with the gate when the pillar is in the first position. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the lift further comprises: a geneva drive for moving the gate vertically between the seated position and the unseated position. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the geneva drive further comprises: a roller cartridge removable radially with respect to a rotational axis of a drive shaft. 18. The system of claim 15 further comprising: at least one indexer on each side of the fixed path of travel for moving the gate from the unseated position to a changeover position. 19. The system of claim 14 further comprising: at least one locator on each gate for accurately positioning the gate with respect to the pillar. 20. In an apparatus for supporting a frame for movement relative to a workpiece to be processed at a work station, the improvement comprising: at least two moveable pillars on each side of a fixed path of travel through the work station for synchronized reciprocation between first and second end limits of travel toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the workpiece; at least one gate connectible in a repeatable located position with respect to the moveable pillars on each side of the fixed path for synchronized reciprocation between first and second positions toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the workpiece; gate drive means engageable with a registered gate located in the repeatable located position on the at least two pillars for moving the registered gate along the fixed path of travel of the workpiece to remove the registered gate from the at least two pillars, and engageable with a replacement gate for moving the replacement gate into registry with the at least two pillars in the repeatable located position simultaneously as the previously registered gate is removed; and locating means engageable between each pillar and the corresponding gate for locating the gate with respect to the moveable pillar in at least two dimensions, the locating means including at least two vertically spaced locators on each pillar for defining a vertical position and a horizontal position along an axis normal to the fixed path, and a moveable locator for locating the gate in a predetermined position along an axis parallel with respect to the fixed path of travel of the body when the moveable locator is in a first position and for allowing movement of the gate with respect to the pillars when the moveable locator is in a second position. 21. An apparatus for supporting a frame for movement relative to a workpiece to be processed at a workstation comprising: at least one pillar at the workstation for reciprocal movement between a first position allowing entry and accurate positioning of at least one workpiece into the workstation, and a second position for accurately locating and clamping of the workpiece into the workstation; at least one gate connectible in a repeatable located position with respect to the moveable pillar on each side of a fixed path of travel of the workpiece for synchronized reciprocation between first and second positions toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the workpiece; gate drive means engageable with a registered gate located in a repeatable located position on the at least one pillar for moving the registered gate along the fixed path of travel of the workpiece to remove the registered gate from the at least one pillar, and engageable with a replacement gate for moving the replacement gate into registry with the at least one pillar in the repeatable located position simultaneously as the previously registered gate is removed; and a pillar drive connected to the pillar at the workstation for driving the pillar harmonically between the first and second positions. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: at least one rail for guiding movement of the pillar between the first and second positions. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the pillar drive further comprises: a reversible motor; a crank arm connected to the motor for rotation through a predetermined rotational arc; and a link connected between the crank arm and the pillar for translating rotational motion of the motor into harmonic motion of the pillar between the first and second positions. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising: the pillar having a hollow interior; and the crank arm and link disposed within the hollow interior of the pillar. 25. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: the frame mountable on the pillar for movement between the first and second positions, the frame supporting tooling for engagement with the workpiece at the workstation when the pillar is in the second position. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising: the frame supporting at least one clamp for clamping the workpiece at the workstation when the pillar is in the second position; and means located at the workstation for welding the workpiece when in a clamped position. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the welding means further comprises: at least one robot for automated welding of the workpiece when in the clamped position. 28. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising: the frame releasibly mounted to the pillar. 29. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the gate drive means further comprises: a frame exchanger for removing a first frame from the pillar and for loading a second frame on the pillar. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising: an automated drive for the frame exchanger for selectively positioning the first frame and the second frame on the pillar corresponding to the workpiece to be processed at the workstation. 31. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising: at least one frame locator connected to the pillar for engagement with the frame to be mounted by the frame exchanger. 32. In a vehicle body welding system including a workstation for welding components of a preassembled body with respect to one another, the body moveable along a fixed path of travel through the workstation, the improvement comprising: at least one pillar at the workstation for reciprocal movement between a first position allowing entry and accurate positioning of components into the workstation, and a second position for accurately locating and clamping of the components; at least one gate connectible in a repeatable located position with respect to the moveable pillar on each side of the fixed path for synchronized reciprocation between first and second positions toward and away from the fixed path of travel of the body; locating means engageable at two spaced locations between each pillar and the corresponding gate for locating the gate with respect to the moveable pillar in at least two dimensions; and a pillar drive connected to the pillar at the workstation for driving the pillar harmonically between the first and second positions. 33. The improvement of claim 32 wherein the locating means further comprises: at least two vertically spaced locators on each pillar for defining a vertical position and a horizontal position along an axis normal to the fixed path. 34. The improvement of claim 33 wherein the locating means further comprises: the vertically spaced locators on one pillar offset with respect to the vertically spaced locators on the other pillar, such that the gate engages with the vertically spaced locators on each pillar only when immediately adjacent the repeatable located position. 35. The improvement of claim 33 wherein each of the vertically spaced locators further comprises: a pocket defined by at least two locating rollers having vertical axes of rotation spaced horizontally from one another a sufficient distance for receiving at least one vertically extending locator surface releasably between the two rollers. 36. The improvement of claim 35 wherein each of the locating rollers has a leading alignment roller and a trailing alignment roller for aligning the vertically extending locator surface with the locator rollers prior to engagement between the locator rollers and the locator surface. 37. The improvement of claim 33 wherein at least one of the vertically spaced locators on each pillar further comprises: at least one locating roller having a horizontal axis of rotation for releasably engaging a horizontally extending locator surface. 38. The improvement of claim 37 wherein the locating roller has a leading alignment roller and a trailing alignment roller for aligning the horizontally extending locator surface with the locator roller prior to engagement between the locator roller and the locator surface. 39. The improvement of claim 32 wherein the locating means further comprises: a moveable locator for locating the gate in a predetermined position along an axis parallel with respect to the fixed path of travel of the workpiece when the moveable locator is in a first position and for allowing movement of the gate with respect to the pillars when the moveable locator is in a second position. 40. The improvement of claim 39 wherein the moveable locator further comprises: a pocket defined by at least two locating rollers having vertical axes of rotation spaced horizontally from one another a sufficient distance for receiving at least one vertically extending locator surface releasably between the two rollers. 41. The improvement of claim 32 further comprising: means for indexing a gate between a ready position corresponding to the repeatable located position on the pillars and a standby position spaced from the pillars. 42. The improvement of claim 32 further comprising: gate drive means engage able with a registered gate located in the repeatable located position on the at least one pillar for moving the registered gate along the fixed path of travel of the body to remove the registered gate from the at least one pillar, and engage able with a replacement gate for moving the replacement gate into registry with the at least one pillar in the repeatable located position while the previously registered gate is removed. 