A robotic automated storage and retrieval system (AS/RS) mixed pallet build system includes a rack that includes two or more verticals levels upon which items are stored. The mixed pallet build system further includes a three-dimensional robotic AS/RS that includes a carriage, robot arm, vertical lift, and horizontal propulsion system. The items from the rack are loaded upon the carriage to create a pallet. The carriage has a length that is shorter than the length of the rack. The robot arm is configured to stack the items from the racks onto the pallet. The vertical lift is configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the racks. The horizontal propulsion system is configured to move the carriage horizontally along the rack so that the carriage is able to service the entire length of the rack. The three-dimensional robotic AS/RS also includes a stretch wrapper that progressively secures the layers of items on the pallet to prevent the items from falling off the pallet.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mixed pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more verticals levels upon which items are stored, the rack having a length; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, the robotic automated storage and retrieval system carriage having a length that is shorter than the length of the rack, a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the automated storage and retrieval system carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, a horizontal propulsion system configured to move the automated storage and retrieval system carriage horizontally along a rack aisle so that the automated storage and retrieval system carriage is able to service the entire length of the rack, and wherein the carriage is secured at a horizontally fixed position relative to the vertical lift mechanism so that the carriage is unable to move horizontally relative to the vertical lift mechanism. 2. The pallet build system of claim 1, further comprising: a mechanism on the automated storage and retrieval system carriage configured to progressively secure palletized layers while the items are loaded onto the pallet. 3. The pallet build system of claim 2, in which the automated storage and retrieval system carriage includes a stretch wrapper. 4. The pallet build system of claim 3, further comprising: a turntable disposed on the automated storage and retrieval system carriage to rotate the build pallet for stretch wrapping the items on the build pallet. 5. The pallet build system of claim 2, further comprising: a turntable disposed on the automated storage and retrieval system carriage to rotate the pallet. 6. The pallet build system of claim 2, further comprising: the vertical lift mechanism including at least a pair of automated storage and retrieval system crane masts on which the vertical lift mechanism rides. 7. The pallet build system of claim 6, further comprising: at least a pair of automated storage and retrieval system rails between which the crane masts move horizontally along the rack aisle. 8. The pallet build system of claim 7, in which the crane masts include magnetic bearings riding on the rails. 9. The pallet build system of claim 7, in which the crane masts include air bearings riding on the rails. 10. The pallet build system of claim 7, further comprising: a horizontal propulsion system coupled to the crane masts to move the automated storage and retrieval system carriage horizontally along the rack. 11. The pallet build system of claim 6, in which the vertical lift mechanism includes a linear servo motor disposed along the crane masts. 12. The pallet build system of claim 1, further comprising: a regenerative braking system incorporated into the vertical lift to recover energy as the automated storage and retrieval system carriage moves. 13. The pallet build system of claim 1, in which the robot arm includes an end of arm tool with a matrix of suction cups that move vertically and have individual valves associated with the suction cups to individually actuate the suction cups. 14. The pallet build system of claim 13, in which the end of arm tool includes a side clamp moveable to engage an item secured to the suction cups to minimize shear force when the robot arm moves. 15. The pallet build system of claim 14, in which the end of arm tool includes empty pallet hooks that are configured to load pallets onto the automated storage and retrieval system carriage from the rack. 16. The pallet build system of claim 1, in which the robot arm includes a side clamp moveable to engage an item secured to the robot arm to minimize shear force when the robot arm moves. 17. The pallet build system of claim 1, in which the robot arm includes empty pallet hooks that are configured to load pallets onto the automated storage and retrieval system carriage from the rack. 18. The pallet build system of claim 1, further comprising: a build layer perimeter guide including a chute configured to hold at least a current build layer of the build pallet in place, wherein the chute is configured to move vertically to follow the current build layer. 19. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet, and a mechanism on the carriage configured to progressively secure the palletized layers while the items are loaded onto the pallet, wherein the mechanism includes a stretch wrapper. 20. The pallet build system of claim 19, further comprising: a turntable disposed on the automated storage and retrieval system carriage to rotate the pallet for stretch wrapping the items on the pallet. 21. The pallet build system of claim 20, further comprising: a build layer perimeter guide including an inner rotor having a chute configured to hold at least a current build layer of the build pallet in place before the current build layer is stretch wrapped by the stretch wrapper, rails upon which the chute moves vertically to follow the current build layer, and a motor configured to synchronously rotate the inner rotor as the turntable rotates the pallet. 22. The pallet build system of claim 19, further comprising: the vertical lift mechanism including at least a pair of crane masts on which the vertical lift mechanism rides. 23. The pallet build system of claim 22, further comprising: at least a pair of vertically positioned rails between which the crane masts move horizontally along a rack aisle. 24. The pallet build system of claim 23, further comprising: a horizontal propulsion system coupled to the crane masts to move the automated storage and retrieval system carriage horizontally along the rack aisle. 25. The pallet build system of claim 19, further comprising: the rack having a length; the automated storage and retrieval system carriage having a length that is shorter than the length of the rack; and a horizontal propulsion system configured to move the automated storage and retrieval system carriage horizontally along a rack aisle so that the automated storage and retrieval system carriage is able to service the entire length of the rack. 26. The pallet build system of claim 19, further comprising: a build layer perimeter guide including a chute configured to hold at least a current build layer of the build pallet in place before the current build layer is stretch wrapped by the stretch wrapper, wherein the chute is configured to move vertically to follow the current build layer. 27. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet, and a turntable disposed on the automated storage and retrieval system carriage to rotate the pallet. 28. The pallet build system of claim 27, further comprising: a build layer perimeter guide including a chute configured to hold at least a current build layer of the build pallet in place, wherein the chute is configured to synchronously turn with the turntable. 29. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, the vertical lift mechanism including at least a pair of crane masts on which the vertical lift mechanism rides, a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet, at least a pair of vertically positioned rails between which the crane masts move horizontally along a rack aisle, and wherein the crane masts include active magnetic levitation bearings riding on one or more of the rails. 30. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, the vertical lift mechanism including at least a pair of crane masts on which the vertical lift mechanism rides, a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet, at least a pair of vertically positioned rails between which the crane masts move horizontally along a rack aisle, and wherein the crane masts include air bearings riding on one or more of the rails that include flat rail surfaces. 31. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, the vertical lift mechanism including at least a pair of crane masts on which the vertical lift mechanism rides and a linear servo motor disposed along masts, and a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet. 32. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet, and a regenerative braking system incorporated into the vertical lift mechanism to recover energy as the automated storage and retrieval system carriage moves. 33. A pallet build system, comprising: a rack including two or more vertical levels upon which items are stored; and a three-dimensional robotic automated storage and retrieval system including a carriage upon which the items from the rack are loaded to create a build pallet, a vertical lift mechanism configured to move the carriage vertically between the vertical levels of the rack, and a robot arm configured to palletize the items from the rack onto the pallet, in which the robot arm includes an end of arm tool with a matrix of suction cups and individual valves associated with the suction cups to individually actuate the suction cups. 34. The pallet build system of claim 33, in which the end of arm tool includes a side clamp moveable to engage an item secured to the suction cups to minimize shear force when the robot arm moves. 35. The pallet build system of claim 34, in which the end of arm tool includes pallet hooks that are configured to load empty pallets from the rack onto the automated storage and retrieval system carriage. 