A method and workstation for optimizing chemical processes based on combinatorial chemistry, automation technology, and computer-controlled design is disclosed. The workstation includes a synthesizer, an analyzer, a robot and computer in communication with the synthesizer and analyzer. The computer includes one or more programs for regulating reaction parameters such as temperature, pressure, concentration of reagents and employs statistical methods for optimizing multiple reaction parameters and for designing optimized experiments for further investigation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying physical variables which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction, the physical variables including reagent concentration and operating conditions; determining a range of values of the physical variables; choosing a finite number of experimental tests wherein each of the experimental tests has values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions chosen from the range of values and wherein at least some of the experimental tests have different reagent concentrations and operating conditions; providing a plurality of wells in a reaction block; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well in the reaction block; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells in the reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen from the range of values; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically generating a statistical analysis using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component in each of the samples and the operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests in order to evaluate the reactions in the wells; automatically generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments using the computer wherein the suggested parameters have values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions based on the statistical analysis; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells in a reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the suggested parameters; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the suggested parameters; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; and analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests includes modifying the temperature of the well. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the step of reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using various operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests includes reacting the reagents by mixing the reactants in the well. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of stopping the reaction in the wells prior to obtaining a sample from the plurality of wells and after the step of reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests. 5. Apparatus for chemical synthesis comprising: a computer; a synthesizer in communication with the computer, the synthesizer having a reaction block containing a plurality of wells, the synthesizer also having devices to control the atmospheric conditions of the reactions in the plurality of wells; an analyzer in communication with the computer, the analyzer analyzing amounts of at least one component of the reactions; the computer having a processor for sending commands to the synthesizer to control the atmospheric conditions, the processor also having a parameter look-up table containing the parameters for the reaction, the processor further receiving the analysis from the analyzer of amounts of at least one component of the reactions and automatically generating a statistical analysis based on the amounts of the at least one component of the reactions and the parameters of the reactions, the processor automatically generating suggested parameters of operating conditions for the plurality of wells for future experiments based on the statistical analysis. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of analyzing the samples using the analyzer includes determining the amount of product yield. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein the step of analyzing the samples using the analyzer further includes determining the amount of by-products. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the step of analyzing the samples using the analyzer further includes determining the amount of unreacted reagents. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the operating conditions for the experimental tests includes temperature and time of reaction. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of generating a statistical analysis includes: assigning weights to the amounts of the at least one of the components and to the operating conditions; multiplying the weights with the amount of the at least one of the components for each of the samples and with the operating conditions; and calculating a score for each of the wells by adding the multiplied values. 11. The method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the step of generating a statistical analysis further includes determining a highest score and wherein the step of generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments includes choosing suggested parameters based on the highest score. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of generating a statistical analysis includes graphically describing the reactions in the plurality of wells based on the operating conditions and the amounts of the at least one component. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein graphically describing the reactions includes generating multivariable contour maps. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein the analyzer analyzes the components to determine the amount product yield, by-products and unreacted reagents. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein the parameter look-up table includes values for temperature, time of reaction, types of reagents and amounts of reagents as parameters for the reactions. 16. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying reagent concentrations and operating conditions which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction; determining a range of values for the reagent concentrations and operating conditions; choosing a finite a number of experimental tests wherein each of the experimental tests has values for reagent concentrations and operating condition chosen from the range of values and wherein at least some of the experimental tests have different reagent concentrations and operating conditions; providing a plurality of wells in a reaction block; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well in the reaction block; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells in a reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen from the ranges of values; reacting in the synthesizer the reagent using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically correlating data regarding the amounts of the at least one component in each of the samples using the computer; automatically generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments using the computer wherein the suggested parameters have values for operating conditions for the plurality of wells for future experiments based on the correlated data in order to optimize the amount of the at least one component; and repeating the steps, using the suggested parameters, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the synthesizer the reagents, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples, correlating data and generating suggested parameters for future experiments. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of analyzing the samples includes analyzing to determine the amount of product yield in each of the samples. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments includes generating suggested parameters in order to maximize product yield. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of analyzing the samples includes analyzing to determine side products in each of the samples. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments includes generating suggested parameters in order to minimize side products. 21. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments includes generating a more narrowly circumscribed set of reaction conditions than the operating conditions for the experimental tests. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of repeating the steps of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the synthesizer the reagents, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples, correlating data and generating suggested parameters for future experiments is performed until optimal reaction conditions are determined with a desired level of precision. 23. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying reagent concentrations and operating conditions which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction; determining a range of values for the reagent concentrations and operating conditions; choosing a finite number of experimental tests wherein each of the experimental tests has values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions chosen from the range of values and wherein at least some of the experimental tests have different reagent concentrations and operating conditions; providing a plurality of wells in a reaction block; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well in the reaction block; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells in the reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen from the range of values; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically ranking the plurality of wells using the computer based on the amount of the at least one component automatically generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments using the computer wherein the suggested parameters have values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions for the plurality of wells for future experiments based on the ranking of the plurality of wells; and repeating the steps, using the suggested parameters, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the synthesizer the reagents, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples and ranking the data. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the step of ranking the plurality of wells includes assigning a score to each of the plurality of wells based on the amounts of the at least one component in each of the samples. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein the step of ranking the plurality of wells includes ranking the wells based on the amount of product yield. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein the step of ranking the plurality of wells includes ranking the wells based on the amount of side products. 27. The method of claim 23 further comprising the step of generating operating conditions for the plurality of wells for future experiments based on the ranking of the wells. 28. The method of claim 23 wherein the step of ranking the plurality of wells includes identifying a most favorable reaction in one of the plurality of wells. 29. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis through an iterative process of steps using a synthesizer; an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying reagent concentrations and operating conditions which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction; determining a range of values for the reagent concentrations and operating conditions; choosing a finite number of experimental tests wherein each of the experimental tests has values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions chosen from the range of values and wherein at least some of the experimental tests have different reagent concentrations and operating conditions; providing a plurality of wells in a reaction block; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well in tee reaction block; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells in the reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen from the range of values; reacting in the synthesizer the regents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically determining a most favorable reaction in one of the plurality of wells using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component; automatically generating operating parameters for future experiments using the computer for the plurality of wells based on the operating conditions of the most favorable reaction; and repeating the steps using the operating parameters for future experiments, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the synthesizer the reagents, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples, and determining a most favorable reaction. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of ranking the plurality of wells based on the amount of the at least one component and wherein the step of generating operating parameters for future experiments is further based on the ranking of the plurality of wells. 31. A computer memory containing a statistical design of experiments computer program for a computer, said computer program configured to operate with a synthesizer and an analyzer and to perform the steps of: dispensing reagents in wells of the synthesizer; running reactions in the wells of the synthesizer; quenching and working up the reactions in the wells of the synthesizer; performing compound analysis and compiling reaction data using the analyzer; automatically determining optimal reaction conditions; automatically designing new experiments for new reactions based on the determining of the optimal reaction conditions; and repeating the steps, using the new experiments, of dispensing reagents in the wells, running the new reactions in the wells, quenching and working up the reactions, performing compound analysis and compiling reaction data, automatically determining optimal reaction conditions, and automatically designing new experiments. 32. An apparatus for chemical synthesis having a memory which contains data representing reaction conditions for future experiments in the apparatus, the data representing said reaction conditions generated by a method including the steps of: dispensing reagents in wells of a synthesizer; running reactions in the wells of the synthesizer; quenching and working up the reactions in the wells of the synthesizer; performing compound analysis and compiling reaction data using an analyzer; automatically determining optimal reaction conditions; automatically designing new experiments for new reactions based on the determining of the optimal reaction conditions; and repeating the steps, using the new experiments, of dispensing reagents in the wells, running the new reactions in the wells, quenching and working up the reactions, performing compound analysis and compiling reaction data, automatically determining optimal reaction conditions, and automatically designing new experiments. 33. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying reagent concentrations and operating conditions which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction; determining a range of values for the reagent concentrations and operating conditions; choosing a finite number of experimental tests wherein each of the experimental tests has values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions chosen from the range of values and wherein at least some of the experimental tests have different reagent concentrations and operating conditions; providing a plurality of wells in a reaction block; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well in the reaction block; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells in the reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen from the range of values; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine data relating to amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically correlating the data relating to the amounts of one component in each of the samples using the computer; automatically extrapolating the data relating to the amounts of one component in each of the samples using the computer; automatically proposing operating conditions for future experiments for the plurality of wells using the computer based on extrapolating the data relating to the amounts of one component in each of the samples; and repeating the steps, using the operating conditions for future experiments, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the synthesizer the reagents, obtaining samples, and analyzing the samples. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the step of proposing operating conditions for future experiments includes proposing operating conditions which are more narrowly circumscribed set of conditions than the operating conditions used during the step of reacting in the synthesizer the reagents. 35. The method of claim 33 further comprising the step of iterating the steps of dispensing the reagents, reacting the reagents in the synthesizer, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples, correlating the data, extrapolating the data, and proposing operating conditions for future experiments, until optimal reaction conditions are determined within a desired level of precision. 36. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: identifying reaction parameters which affect chemical synthesis for a reaction, the reaction parameters including reagent concentrations and operating conditions; defining a space of reaction parameters corresponding to range of values of the reaction parameters; randomly choosing within the space of reaction parameters reagent concentrations and operating conditions for a set of experimental tests; assigning each of the experimental tests to a particular well for each of a plurality of wells in a reaction block; dispensing reagents into the plurality of wells, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen from the range of values; reacting in the plurality of wells the reagents using reaction parameters randomly chosen within the space of reaction parameters; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine data relating to amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically generating a statistical analysis using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component in each of the samples and the reaction parameters in order to evaluate the reactions in the wells; automatically proposing a new space of reaction parameters using the computer for future experiments for the plurality of wells based on the statistical analysis, the new space of reaction parameters being different than the space of reaction parameters in order to optimize chemical synthesis; and repeating the steps, using the new space of reaction parameters, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the reagents, obtaining samples, and analyzing the samples. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the space of reaction parameters includes temperature, concentrations of reagents, pressure and time period and wherein the step of dispensing reagents includes dispensing concentrations of reagents randomly chosen within the space of reaction parameters. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein the at least one component is product yield. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein the step of generating a statistical analysis includes determining the sample with the highest product yield and wherein the step of proposing a new space of reaction parameters for future experiments is based on the reaction parameters for the sample with the highest product yield. 40. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of generating a statistical analysis includes graphically describing the reactions in the plurality of wells based on the reaction parameters and the amounts of the at least one component. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein graphically describing the reactions includes generating multivariable contour maps. 42. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: generating a set of experiments for a plurality of wells in a reaction block using reaction conditions, the reaction conditions varying in the plurality of wells; dispensing reagents into a plurality of wells in a reaction block; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using the reaction conditions; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of product yield in each of the samples; determining the sample with the lowest amount of product yield; replacing in the set of experiments the reaction conditions for the sample with the lowest amount of product yield with new reaction conditions to generate a new set of experiments; and repeating, with the new set of experiments, the steps of dispensing reagents, reacting the reagents in the synthesizer, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples, determining the sample with the lowest amount of product yield, and replacing in the set of experiments the reaction for the sample with the lowest amount of product yield, in order to optimize reaction conditions. 43. A method for optimizing chemical synthesis using a synthesizer, an analyzer, and a computer, the method including the steps of: generating a set of experiments for a plurality of wells using reaction conditions, the reaction conditions varying in the plurality of wells; dispensing reagents into a plurality of wells; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using the reaction conditions; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically graphically describing the reactions in the plurality of wells using the computer based on the reaction conditions and the amounts of the at least one component; and automatically designing a set of new experiments using the computer based on the graphical description of the reactions, the set of new experiments being a narrower set of reaction conditions than the set of experiments; and repeating the steps, using the new experiments, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the reagents, obtaining samples, and analyzing the samples. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the at least one component is product yield. 45. The method of claim 43 wherein the step of graphically describing the reactions includes generating multivariable contour maps. 46. The method of claim 43 wherein the step of graphically describing the reactions includes generating response surfaces and wherein the step of designing a set of new experiments is based on the response surfaces. 47. The method of claim 43 further comprising the steps of dispensing the reagents, reacting the reagents in the synthesizer, obtaining samples, analyzing the samples, graphically describing the reactions, and designing a set of new experiments, until optimal reaction conditions are determined within a desired level of precision. 48. An apparatus for optimizing chemical synthesis comprising: a computer including a memory and a processor; a synthesizer in communication with the computer, the synthesizer having a reaction block containing a plurality of wells, the synthesizer also having devices to control the atmospheric conditions of reactions in the plurality of wells; an analyzer in communication with the computer, the analyzer analyzing amounts of at least one component of the reactions; means for obtaining samples from the plurality of wells and transferring the samples to the analyzer; the apparatus configured to perform the steps of: dispensing reagents using the synthesizer into the plurality of wells in the reaction block, the reagent concentrations corresponding to the values chosen form a range of values; reacting in the synthesizer the reagents using operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests; obtaining samples from the plurality of wells by the means for obtaining samples; analyzing the samples using the analyzer to determine amounts of at least one component in each of the samples; automatically generating a statistical analysis using the computer based on the amounts of the at least one component in each of the samples and the operating conditions chosen from the values for the experimental tests in order to evaluate the reactions in the wells; automatically generating suggested parameters for a future set of experiments using the computer wherein the suggested parameters have values for reagent concentrations and operating conditions based on the statistical analysis; repeating the steps, using the suggested parameters, of dispensing the reagents, reacting in the synthesizer the reagents, obtaining samples, and analyzing the samples. 49. The apparatus of claim 48 wherein the means for obtaining samples includes a robot. 