Real time kinematic (RTK) global positioning system (GPS) technology is integrated with precision farming methodologies to provide highly accurate seeding, cultivating, planting and/or harvesting operations. RTK GPS systems are used to control fully or semi-autonomous vehicles in these operations and may allow for precision planting of seeds (e.g., from a seeder equipped with an RTK GPS receiver and related equipment) and/or precision weed removal (e.g., using a vehicle fitted with weed eradication mechanisms such as augers and/or herbicide sprayers). Crop specific fertilizer/pesticide application is also enabled through the use of centimeter-level accurate positioning techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vehicle, comprising: a global positioning system (GPS) receiver configured to provide real time precise positioning information regarding the location of the vehicle; a sensor package configured to detect a characteristic of a target; and a decision-making apparatus coupled to receive inputs from the sensor package and the GPS receiver and configured to identify the target therefrom. 2. The vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a propulsion unit configured to transport the vehicle under the control of the decision-making apparatus. 3. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein the GPS receiver comprises a real-time kinematic (RTK) GPS receiver. 4. The vehicle of claim 3 further comprising collision avoidance sensors coupled to the decision making apparatus. 5. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein the decision-making apparatus is configured to combine inputs from the sensor package, the GPS receiver and a stored map of an area in which the vehicle operates to produce a decision output. 6. The vehicle of claim 5 further comprising an actuator configured to respond to the decision output of the decision making apparatus. 7. The vehicle of claim 6 wherein the actuator comprises weed removal means. 8. The vehicle of claim 7 wherein the weed removal means include herbicide deploying mechanisms. 9. The vehicle of claim 8 wherein the herbicide deploying mechanisms comprise a spray nozzle. 10. The vehicle of claim 6 wherein the actuator comprises lane marker depositing means. 11. The vehicle of claim 10 further comprising an emergency message transmitter configured to transmit the location of the vehicle when activated. 12. The vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a plant eradication mechanism. 13. The vehicle of claim 12 wherein the plant eradication mechanism comprises a herbicide sprayer. 14. The vehicle of claim 12 wherein the plant eradication mechanism comprises an auger. 15. The vehicle of claim 14 wherein the plant eradication mechanism further comprises a herbicide sprayer. 16. The vehicle of claim 14 further comprising a propulsion unit coupled to the vehicle. 17. The vehicle of claim 16 further comprising a housing which includes the decision-making apparatus and at least a portion of the propulsion unit. 18. The vehicle of claim 17 wherein the GPS receiver is included within the housing. 19. The vehicle of claim 16 wherein the propulsion unit is configured to operate under the control of the decision-making apparatus. 20. The vehicle of claim 19 further comprising a collision avoidance sensor coupled to the decision-making apparatus. 21. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein the decision-making apparatus is configured to receive reference position information for use in classifying the target. 22. The vehicle of claim 21 wherein the reference position information is obtained from a digitized map of an area of operation for the vehicle. 23. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein the decision-making apparatus is configured to utilize present position information obtained from the GPS receiver to access stored information for use in classifying the target. 24. The vehicle of claim 23 wherein the stored information comprises a digital map of an operating area of the vehicle. 25. The vehicle of claim 24 wherein the digital map includes information defining desired plant growth regions. 26. The vehicle of claim 1 further comprising a sprayer apparatus coupled to receive control signals from the decision-making apparatus. 27. The vehicle of claim 26 wherein the sprayer apparatus is configured to dispense at least one of a herbicide, a fertilizer or a pesticide. 28. The vehicle of claim 26 wherein the sprayer apparatus is configured to dispense a herbicide, a pesticide and/or a fertilizer under the control of the decision-making apparatus based on a classification of the target. 29. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein the classification of the target is made with reference to previously obtained information regarding an operating area of the vehicle. 30. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein the decision-making apparatus is configured to classify the target according to an input from the sensor package and the GPS receiver. 31. The vehicle of claim 30 further comprising a propulsion unit configured to operate under the control of the decision-making apparatus. 32. The vehicle of claim 31 wherein the sensor package input is provided by a chlorophyll detector. 33. A method comprising determining whether or not a target has been located according, at least in part, to a position of a vehicle, as determined by a global positioning system (GPS receiver, and a sensor input provided to a decision making apparatus which is configured to identify the target from the position of the vehicle and a target characteristic provided by the sensor input. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the sensor input is provided by a sensor package housed on the vehicle. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the position of the vehicle is provided by a real-time kinematic (RTK) GPS receiver housed on the vehicle. 36. The method of claim 33 wherein the sensor input is provided by a chlorophyll detector. 37. The method of claim 33 wherein the sensor input is provided by a video camera. 38. The method of claim 33 wherein the sensor input is provided by an infra-red detector. 39. A method, comprising: defining a first seeding line using position data provided by a geographic information system; defining a second seeding line using positioning data derived from GPS data and a swathing offset; updating said second seeding line according to one or more deviations from said second seeding line; following said second seeding line defined by said positioning data and said swathing offset; deviating from said second seeding line; collecting new GPS data during said steps of following and deviating and computing one or more positions therefrom; and defining an updated second seeding line using said positions. 40. A method as in claim 39 further comprising the step of defining a third seeding line using said positions and said swathing offset. 