This invention provides novel assays for topoisomerase activity and for identifying topoisomerase inhibitors. The assays include both solid-phase and liquid-phase methods that are amenable to high throughput screening methods. The assays of the invention are readily adaptable to numerous types of topoisomerase, and are capable of identifying novel classes of topoisomerase activity modulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring the activity of a topoisomerase in the presence of a potential topoisomerase activity modulator, the method comprising: incubating a test mixture comprising: a topoisomerase comprising an epitope, a nucleic acid, and a potential activity modulator; adding to the test mixture a mild denaturant and an immobilization moiety which comprises a tag and a binding moiety that binds to the epitope; binding the tag to a solid support, thereby binding the immobilization moiety to the solid support; washing the solid support in a high salt solution to remove nucleic acid which is not bound to the immobilization moiety; contacting the solid support-bound immobilization moiety with a labeling moiety comprising a primary label and a binding moiety that binds to the nucleic acid; and determining whether the nucleic acid is bound to the immobilization moiety by detecting the presence or absence of the labeling moiety on the solid support, thereby determining the activity of the topoisomerase in the test mixture. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is covalently closed circular plasmid DNA. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plasmid DNA is supercoiled. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the plasmid DNA is relaxed. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is between about 2.5 kb and about 10 kb in length. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the labelling moiety comprises the nucleic acid, which comprises a detectable label. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the binding moiety is a polypeptide which binds to DNA. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the polypeptide is an anti-DNA antibody. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the binding moiety is a polynucleotide which hybridizes to the nucleic acid. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the hybridization of the binding moiety to the nucleic acid forms a triplex. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the topoisomerase is a Type I topoisomerase. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is double stranded and the topoisomerase is a Type II topoisomerase. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein incubating the test mixture comprising the potential activity modulator results in a greater amount of linkage between the tagged nucleic acid and the topoisomerase than a control mixture. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising quantitating the amount of labeling moiety bound to the solid support. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the test mixture comprises a plurality of topoisomerascs, each of which comprises a different epitope. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential modulator is selected from the group consisting of a topoisomerase inhibitor and a topoisomerase activator. 