A tool rack support system which includes leaf spring type flexures which allow the tool rack a measure of compliance in both the horizontal and vertical planes. The support system comprises preferably two flexure support assemblies with each assembly preferably including two cantilevered, horizontally oriented, planar flexures and two cantilevered, vertically oriented, substantially planar flexures which are ultimately supported from the distal end of the horizontally oriented, planar flexures. The vertically oriented, planar flexures give the support system a measure of compliance which allows the tool rack to be moved discretely in the horizontal plane as a result of a robotic arm acquiring or delivering a tool to the tool rack. The horizontally oriented, substantially planar flexures of the support system give the support assembly vertical compliancy to allow the tool rack to be moved discretely in the vertical direction as a result of a robotic arm acquiring or delivering a tool from the tool rack. Travel stops are provided to limit the amount of vertical travel which can be imparted to be horizontally oriented, planar flexures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compliant support system for a tool rack in which tools are supported for automated tool changing by a robotic arm, said support system comprising: (a) a first pier; (b) at least one horizontally oriented, substantially planar flexure cantilevered from a proximal end thereof from said first pier; (c) a bracket affixed to a distal end of said at least one horizontally oriented planar flexure and projecting upward therefrom: (d) at least one vertically oriented, substantially planar flexure affixed at a first end to said bracket, said at least one vertically oriented, substantially planar flexure cantilevered back over said at least one horizontally oriented substantially planar flexure; and (e) a support extending from the tool rack, said support attached a second end of said at least one vertically oriented, substantially planar flexure. 2. A compliant support system as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a first travel stop limiting an amount of downward travel that can be imparted to said distal end of said at least one horizontally oriented, planar flexure. 3. A compliant support system as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a second travel stop limiting an amount of upward travel that can be imparted to said distal end of said at least one horizontally oriented planar flexure. 4. A compliant support system as recited in claim 2 wherein: said first travel stop is a second pier positioned beneath said bracket. 5. A compliant support system as recited in claim 4 wherein: said bracket includes a block projecting therefrom, said second pier positioned beneath said block to create a gap between said block and said second pier, said gap defining a maximum distance said distal end may flex vertically downward. 6. A compliant support system as recited in claim 5 further comprising: a second travel stop limiting an amount of upward travel that can be imparted to said distal end, said second travel stop projecting from said second pier and including a flange portion for engaging a surface of said bracket at an upper limit of said distal end at least one horizontally oriented substantially planar flexure cantilevered from a proximal end thereof from said first pier. 7. A compliant support system for a tool rack in which tools are supported for automated tool changing by a robotic arm, said support system comprising: two support assemblies, each support assemblies including (a) a first pier; (b) at least one horizontally oriented substantially planar flexure cantilevered from a proximal end thereof from said first pier; (c) a bracket affixed to a distal end of said at least one horizontally oriented planar flexure and projecting upward therefrom: (d) at least one vertically oriented, substantially planar flexure affixed at a first end to said bracket, said at least one vertically oriented, substantially planar flexure cantilevered back over said at least one horizontally oriented substantially planar flexure; and (e) a support extending from the tool rack, said support attached a second end of said at least one vertically oriented, substantially planar flexure. 8. A compliant support system for a tool rack in which tools are supported for automated tool changing by a robotic arm, said support system comprising: (a) a first pier; (b) two horizontally oriented substantially planar flexures residing in a parallel relationship to each other, said two horizontally oriented substantially planar flexures cantilevered at a proximal end thereof from said first pier; (c) a bracket affixed to a distal end of each of said two horizontally oriented planar flexure and projecting upward therefrom: (d) two vertically oriented, substantially planar flexures affixed at a first end thereof to said bracket, said two vertically oriented, substantially planar flexures cantilevered back over said two horizontally oriented, substantially planar flexures; and (e) a support extending from the tool rack, said support attached a second end of said two vertically oriented, substantially planar flexures. 9. A compliant support system as recited in claim 8 wherein: said two vertically oriented, substantially planar flexures are spaced apart from each other, and said two horizontally oriented, substantially planar flexures are spaced apart from each other. 10. A compliant support system as recited in claim 9 further comprising: a first travel stop limiting an amount of downward travel that can be imparted to said distal ends of said two horizontally oriented, planar flexures. 11. A compliant support system as recited in claim 9 further comprising: a second travel stop limiting an amount of upward travel that can be imparted to said distal ends of said two horizontally oriented, planar flexures. 12. A compliant support system as recited in claim 10 wherein: said first travel stop is a second pier positioned beneath said bracket. 13. A compliant support system as recited in claim 12 wherein: said bracket includes a block projecting therefrom, said second pier positioned beneath said block to create a gap between said block and said second pier, said gap defining a maximum distance said distal ends may move vertically downward. 14. A compliant support system as recited in claim 13 further comprising: a second travel stop limiting an amount of upward travel that can be imparted to said distal ends, said second travel stop projecting from said second pier and including a flange portion for engaging a surface of said bracket at an upper limit. 