The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use in moving an end effector, the apparatus comprising: a first manipulator comprising a coarse motion manipulator with at least three degrees-of-freedom and a fine motion manipulator with at least three degrees-of-freedom; and a second manipulator connected to a distal end of the first manipulator, the second manipulator having means for providing at least three orthogonally decoupled revolute degrees-of-freedom with a common remote center of motion located at a distance from the second manipulator, and means for selectively locking and releasing the separate degrees-of-freedom small rotational realignments of an end effector connected to the second manipulator can be provided without requiring large motions of a manipulator joint. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the coarse motion manipulator is adapted to provide six degrees-of-freedom. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the fine motion manipulator is adapted to provide at least three linear degrees-of-freedom. 4. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the coarse motion manipulator has a three degree-of-freedom rotational manipulator. 5. An apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the fine motion manipulator is connected to the coarse motion manipulator's rotational manipulator wherein a center of rotation of the second manipulator can be aligned over a target area and, the fine motion manipulator can be used to move the end effector with natural motions of a task. 6. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the coarse motion manipulator is adapted to provide at least three orthogonally decoupled paths of linear motion. 7. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the fine motion manipulator is adapted to provide at least three orthogonally decoupled paths of linear motion. 8. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the second manipulator includes two crossed goniometer cradle sections having axes of rotation at a common point. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the second manipulator includes at least two goniometer cradle sections and at least two rotary axis sections having axes of rotation that intersect at a common point with axes of rotation of the goniometer cradle sections. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1 further comprising means for selectively applying a braking force to a joint of at least one of the manipulators to restrict a degree-of-freedom. 11. An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the means for selectively applying a braking force is adapted to provide a variable braking force. 12. An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the means for selectively applying a braking force includes a computer and computer controlled brakes. 13. An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the means for selectively applying a braking force includes manually actuatable locks. 14. An apparatus as in claim 10 further comprising at least one micrometer adjuster adapted to provide motion at the joint when the joint is locked by the means for selectively applying a braking force. 15. An apparatus as in claim 1 further comprising a force sensor adapted to sense force being applied to the patient by an end effector connected to the second manipulator. 16. An apparatus as in claim 1 further comprising means for direct endpoint sensing of the location of an end effector connected to the second manipulator. 17. An apparatus for use in moving a surgical instrument relative to a patient, the apparatus comprising; a base; a first link movably mounted to the base for movement along a first axis of motion; a second link movably mounted to the first link for movement along a second axis of motion perpendicular to the first axis of motion; a third link movably mounted to the second link for movement along a third axis of motion perpendicular to the first and second axes of motion; a fine adjustment manipulator comprising a first section movably mounted to the third link along a forth axis of motion, a second section movably mounted to the first section along a fifth axis of motion perpendicular to the fourth axis of motion, and a third section movably mounted to the second section along a sixth axis of motion perpendicular to the fourth and fifth axes of motion; means for selectively locking and unlocking movement of individual links and sections to provide orthogonal only movement between connected links and sections upon unlocking of the links and sections; and a rotational manipulator connected to the fine adjustment manipulator adapted to provide multiple orthogonally decoupled revolute degrees-of-freedom. 18. An apparatus as in claim 17 wherein the means for selectively locking an unlocking includes manually actuatable locks. 19. An apparatus as in claim 17 wherein the means for selectively locking and unlocking includes computer controlled brakes. 20. An apparatus as in claim 19 further comprising means for manually actuating the brakes. 21. An apparatus for assisting a surgeon in manipulating a surgical instrument intended to be placed into a patient's body through an opening in which there is a relatively small amount of available lateral motion at the opening, the apparatus comprising: a first manipulator; a second manipulator connected to the first manipulator, the second manipulator comprising at least three orthogonally decoupled revolute degrees-of-freedom and being positionable relative to the opening to provide a center of motion at the opening, means for connecting the surgical instrument to the second manipulator, and means for controlling movement of members of the second manipulator, the means for controlling movement comprising a computer-controlled device including at least one motion driver attached to at least one of the members adapted to drive the two members relative to each other; a computer controller connected to the computer-controlled motion driver to control activation of the motion driver, the computer controller being adapted to automatically actuate the motion driver to move the two members; and sensors connected to the computer controller for indicating position of the members of the second manipulator wherein the surgical instrument comprises a camera and the computer controller is adapted to move the second manipulator to track a target with the camera. 22. An apparatus as in claim 21 wherein the second manipulator includes means for longitudinally axially moving the surgical instrument relative to the second manipulator along longitudinal axis of the surgical instrument. 23. An apparatus as in claim 21 wherein the second manipulator includes a distal end section adapted to provide a fourth revolute degree-of-freedom. 24. An apparatus as in claim 21 wherein the second manipulator includes at least one micrometer adjustment mechanism. 25. An apparatus as in claim 21 wherein the computer-controlled device includes at least one selectively actuatable motion brake. 26. An apparatus as in claim 21 further comprising means for inputting information by the surgeon directly into the computer controller during surgery. 