A method and system of determining the feedability of a continuous welding wire having a known diameter, said method and system comprising the steps of providing a supply of welding wire; pushing the wire by a wire feeder through a welding cable having a given long length and terminating in a welding gun with a tubular contact tip with a wire receiving passage generally matching the selected diameter of said welding wire, sensing the reactive force of the wire feeder as it pushes the wire through the cable and the tip; and causing a generally fixed current to flow between the contact tip and a workpiece whereby the advancing welding wire is melted and transferred to the workpiece in accordance with a given welding process.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method of determining the feedability of a continuous welding wire having a known diameter, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a supply of said continuous welding wire; (b) pushing said wire by a wire feeder through a welding cable having a given long length and terminating in a welding gun with a tubular contact tip with a wire receiving passage generally matching said selected diameter of said welding wire, said cable having at least one bend and said gun being fixedly close to a workpiece; (c) sensing the reactive force of said wire feeder as it pushes said wire through said cable and said tip; (d) causing a generally fixed current to flow between said contact tip and said workpiece whereby said advancing welding wire is melted and transferred to said workpiece in accordance with a given welding process; and, (e) creating a time based trace of said reactive force for a time cycle. 2. The method as defined in claim 1 including the step of measuring the maximum value of said reactive force during said time cycle. 3. The method as defined in claim 2 including repeating said trace creating step at least once. 4. The method as defined in claim 3 wherein said step is repeated at least twice. 5. The method as defined in claim 2 including the step of averaging the sensed reactive force during said time cycle. 6. The method as defined in claim 5 including the step of recording the averaged reactive force and said maximum reactive force during said time cycle. 7. The method as defined in claim 6 including repeating said trace creating step, measuring step, averaging step and recording step at least once. 8. The method as defined in claim 7 wherein said steps are repeated at least twice. 9. The method as defined in claim 1 including repeating said trace creating step at least once. 10. The method as defined in claim 1 including the steps of measuring the force pulling said wire from said supply of wire and subtracting said pulling force from said sensed reactive force. 11. The method as defined in claim 1 including the step of maintaining a constant tension on said wire as it is pulled from said supply of wire. 12. The method as defined in claim 1 including the step of displaying said time based trace on a screen. 13. The method as defined in claim 12 including repeating said trace creating step and said displaying step on a single screen. 14. The method as defined in claim 12 including the steps of measuring the force pulling said wire from said supply of wire and subtracting said pulling force from said sensed reactive force. 15. The method as defined in claim 12 including the step of maintaining a constant tension on said wire as it is pulled from said supply of wire. 16. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said time cycle is less than about 10 minutes. 17. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said time cycle is in the general range of 2-5 minutes. 18. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said length of said cable is in the general range of 10-30 feet. 19. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said bend is in the range of 120.degree.-720.degree.. 20. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein said bend is generally 540.degree.. 21. A system for determining the feedability of a continuous welding wire having a known diameter, said system comprising a supply of said continuous welding wire; a wire feeder for pushing said wire through a welding cable having a given long length and terminating in a welding gun with a tubular contact tip with a wire receiving passage generally matching said selected diameter of said welding wire, said cable having at least one bend and said gun being fixedly close to a workpiece; means for sensing the reactive force of said wire feeder as it pushes said wire through said cable and said tip; means for causing a generally fixed current to flow between said contact tip and said workpiece whereby said advancing welding wire is melted and transferred to said workpiece in accordance with a given welding process; and, means for creating a time based trace of said reactive force for a time cycle. 22. The system as defined in claim 21 including means for measuring the maximum value of said reactive force during said time cycle. 23. The system as defined in claim 21 including means for measuring the force pulling said wire from said supply of wire and subtracting said pulling force from said sensed reactive force. 24. The system as defined in claim 21 including means for maintaining a constant tension on said wire as it is pulled from said supply of wire. 25. The system as defined in claim 21 including a screen for displaying said time based trace. 26. The system as defined in claim 21 wherein said time cycle is less than about 10 minutes. 27. The system as defined in claim 21 wherein said time cycle is in the general range of 2-5 minutes. 28. The system as defined in claim 21 wherein said length is in the general range of 10-30 feet. 29. The system as defined in claim 21 wherein said bend is in the range of 120.degree.-720.degree.. 30. The system as defined in claim 21 wherein said bend is generally 540.degree.. 31. A method of determining the feedability of a continuous welding wire having a known diameter, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a supply of said continuous welding wire; (b) pushing said wire by a wire feeder through a welding cable having a given long length and terminating in a welding gun with a tubular contact tip with a wire receiving passage generally matching said selected diameter of said welding wire, said cable having at least one bend and said gun being fixedly close to a workpiece; (c) sensing the reactive force of said wire feeder as it pushes said wire through said cable and said tip; (d) causing a generally fixed current to flow between said contact tip and said workpiece whereby said advancing welding wire is melted and transferred to said workpiece in accordance with a given welding process; and, (e) recording said reactive force determined during time cycle. 32. The method as defined in claim 1 including the step of measuring and recording the maximum value of said reactive force during said time cycle. 33. A method of determining the feedability of a continuous welding wire having a known diameter, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a supply of said continuous welding wire; (b) pushing said wire by a wire feeder through a welding cable having a given long length and terminating in a welding gun with a tubular contact tip with a wire receiving passage generally matching said selected diameter of said welding wire, said cable having at least one bend and said gun being fixedly close to a workpiece; (c) sensing the reactive force of said wire feeder as it pushes said wire through said cable and said tip; (d) causing a generally fixed current to flow between said contact tip and said workpiece whereby said advancing welding wire is melted and transferred to said workpiece in accordance with a given welding process; and, (e) determining if said reactive force exceeds a selection value. 