A shed for animals such as cows, having an overhead rail supported from the shed's roof which supports cleaning apparatus that is capable of being moved throughout the shed to remove manure and other debris from the floor. The cleaning apparatus includes a manure suction device, motor driven rotatable brushes and a connection to cleaning or disinfecting fluid. Containers for cleaning or disinfecting fluid and to receive manure are supported on a platform underlying the rail, the rotatable brushes and manure suction device being supported by articulated robotic arms which are controlled by piston and cylinder units to move transversely relative to the overhead rail and platform. Movement of the cleaning apparatus is guided by detectors and operatively associated controls so that the shed can be selectively cleaned. A suction device extends into the shed for removing manure into a container outside the shed as needed. A fodder pick-up device is also provided for moving fodder from a silo for distributing it into feed troughs in the shed. The pick-up device, which includes a gripping member, is also supported by a rail suspended from the shed's roof and can pick up fodder and other material at any place within the shed.
Claims I claim: 1. A construction comprising a shed for animals, said shed including a floor, cleaning means capable of being moved throughout said shed for cleaning said floor, said cleaning means comprising manure pick-up means for automatically cleaning said floor and a container, said container supported so as to be spaced above said manure pick-up means, said manure pick-up means being movable along said floor in a different direction relative to a direction of movement of said container, said manure pick-up means including suction means for removing said manure from said floor and into said container. 2. A construction in accordance with claim 1, wherein said manure pick-up means comprises brushing means for moving manure on said floor into the vicinity of said suction means. 3. A construction in accordance with claim 1, comprising a computer control for said manure pick-up means for selectively controlling the movement of said manure pick-up means to operate at substantially any location on said floor. 4. A construction in accordance with claim 1, comprising vertical movement means for moving said manure pick-up means vertically. 5. A construction in accordance with claim 1, comprising detection means for determining the location of waste material on said floor. 6. A construction in accordance with claim 1, further comprising manure discharge means and a manure storage tank which cooperates with said manure discharge means for moving manure from said container into said manure storage tank. 7. A structure in accordance with claim 6, wherein said manure discharge means comprises a manure suction device to be received in said container, and manure pump disposed to move manure from said manure suction device into said manure storage tank. 8. A construction in accordance with claim 7, wherein said manure suction device comprises coupling means for coupling said manure suction device to said container. 9. A construction in accordance with claim 1, which comprises detection means for detecting obstacles in the vicinity of said manure pick-up means. 10. A construction comprising a shed for animals, said shed including a floor, cleaning means in said shed capable of being moved throughout said shed for cleaning said floor, sensors in said shed disposed above said floor, said sensors detecting the location of manure on said floor and guiding the movement of said cleaning means to said manure on said floor at locations throughout said shed. 11. A construction in accordance with claim 10, wherein said cleaning means includes a manure suction device, and movement means for moving said manure suction device in overlapping back and forth movements on said floor. 12. A structure in accordance with claim 11, wherein said shed comprises a roof, a rail supported by said roof, said manure suction device comprising a robot arm construction, the upper side of said robot arm construction being movable along said rail, the lower side of said movable arm construction being provided with a nozzle. 13. A construction in accordance with claim 12, wherein said nozzle is provided with wheels. 14. A structure in accordance with claim 12, wherein said nozzle is provided with a motor-driven cleaning element. 15. A construction in accordance with claim 14, wherein said cleaning element comprises a brush. 16. A construction in accordance with claim 10, wherein said shed comprises a rail and said cleaning means comprises a container which is movable along said rail, said container including a manure pump, said cleaning means further comprising two pivotal arms, a nozzle provided on at least one of said arms, suction means operatively connected to said nozzle for extracting manure on said floor to said container through said manure pump. 17. A construction in accordance with claim 16, wherein said container comprises a further compartment for receiving manure and another compartment for a further fluid. 18. A construction in accordance with claim 17 wherein said further fluid comprises a cleaning fluid. 19. A construction in accordance with claim 17, wherein said further fluid comprises a fluid for spraying. 20. A construction in accordance with claim 17, wherein said further fluid comprises a disinfecting fluid. 21. A construction in accordance with claim 16, wherein a first arm of said robot arm construction is associated with a conduit for the movement of manure from said nozzle to said compartment and the second arm of said robot arm construction is associated with a further conduit for the movement of fluid to a spraying device in said nozzle. 