A computer based, iterative process for generating chemical entities with defined physical chemical and/or bioactive properties. During each iteration of the process, (1) a directed diversity chemical library is robotically generated in accordance with robotic synthesis instructions; (2) the compounds in the directed diversity chemical library are analyzed to identify compounds with the desired properties; (3) structure-property data are used to select compounds to be synthesized in the next iteration; and (4) new robotic synthesis instructions are automatically generated to control the synthesis of the directed diversity chemical library for the next iteration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer based synthesis protocol generator for use in a system that generates compounds having a prescribed set of activities/properties, said synthesis protocol generator comprising: means for generating a list of potential chemical compounds, each of said potential chemical compounds comprising one or more reagents from a reagent list, said reagent list comprising a list of reagents that, as selectively combined, will produce a set of compounds that will exhibit activities/properties more closely matching said prescribed set of activities/properties as predicted by structure-activity models derived from analysis of (a) structure-activity data of compounds contained in a directed diversity chemical library, and (b) historical structure-activity data of compounds synthesized and analyzed in the past; candidate compound identifying means for identifying from said list of potential chemical compounds a plurality of candidate compounds suitable for synthesis; and synthesis instruction generating means and executing means for generating and executing synthesis instructions that control the synthesis of at least a subset of said candidate compounds. 2. The synthesis protocol generator of claim 1, further comprising: optimal set selecting means for selecting an optimal set of said candidate compounds to synthesize based on at least one of the following factors: (i) their respective predicted abilities to exhibit activity/properties more closely matching said prescribed set of activity/properties as indicated by said structure-activity models; (ii) their respective predicted abilities to validate said structure-activity models; (iii) their respective predicted abilities to discriminate between said structure-activity models; (iv) their respective predicted abilities to have superior three-dimensional receptor fit; and (v) similarity between their respective structural, physical, or chemical characteristics and characteristics of compounds in a structure-activity database whose activity/properties most closely conform to said prescribed set of activity/properties. 3. The synthesis protocol generator of claim 2, wherein said optimal set selecting means comprises: means for selecting said optimal set by individually ranking said candidate compounds based on at least one of factors (i)-(v). 4. The synthesis protocol generator of claim 2, wherein said optimal set selecting means comprises: means for selecting said optimal set by ranking combinations of said candidate compounds based on at least one of factors (i)-(v). 5. The synthesis protocol generator of claim 1, further comprising: structure-activity model derivation means for analyzing structure-activity data of said compounds contained in said directed diversity chemical library and said historical structure-activity data pertaining to said compounds synthesized and analyzed in the past to derive said structure-activity models, wherein said structure-activity models have enhanced predictive and discriminating capabilities. 6. The synthesis protocol generator of claim 1, further comprising: reagent identifying means for identifying, in accordance with said structure-activity models, reagents from a reagent database for inclusion in said reagent list. 7. A computer based method of generating compounds having a prescribed set of activities/properties, the method comprising the steps of: (1) generating a list of potential chemical compounds, each of said potential chemical compounds comprising one or more reagents from a reagent list, said reagent list comprising a list of reagents that, as selectively combined, will produce a set of compounds that will exhibit activities/properties more closely matching said prescribed set of activities/properties as predicted by structure-activity models derived from analysis of (a) structure-activity data of compounds contained in a directed diversity chemical library, and (b) historical structure-activity data of compounds synthesized and analyzed in the past; (2) identifying from said list of potential chemical compounds a plurality of candidate compounds suitable for synthesis; (3) generating synthesis instructions that control the synthesis of at least a subset of said candidate compounds; and (4) executing said synthesis instructions to thereby generate said at least a subset of said candidate compounds. 8. The computer based method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: (4) selecting an optimal set of said candidate compounds to synthesize based on at least one of the following factors: (i) their respective predicted abilities to exhibit activity/properties more closely matching said prescribed set of activity/properties as indicated by said structure-activity models; (ii) their respective predicted abilities to validate said structure-activity models; (iii) their respective predicted abilities to discriminate between said structure-activity models; (iv) their respective predicted abilities to have superior three-dimensional receptor fit; and (v) similarity between their respective structural, physical, or chemical characteristics and characteristics of compounds in a structure-activity database whose activity/properties most closely conform to said prescribed set of activity/properties. 9. The computer based method of claim 8, wherein step (4) comprises the step of: selecting said optimal set by individually ranking said candidate compounds based on at least one of factors (i)-(v). 10. The computer based method of claim 8, wherein step (4) comprises the step of: selecting said optimal set by ranking combinations of said candidate compounds based on at least one of factors (i)-(v). 11. The computer based method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: analyzing structure-activity data of said compounds contained in said directed diversity chemical library and said historical structure-activity data pertaining to said compounds synthesized and analyzed in the past to derive said structure-activity models, wherein said structure-activity models have enhanced predictive and discriminating capabilities. 12. The computer based method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: identifying, in accordance with said structure-activity models, reagents from a reagent database for inclusion in said reagent list. 13. A computer program product comprising a computer useable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for enabling a processor to assist in generating compounds having a prescribed set of activities/properties, said computer program logic comprising: means for enabling a computer to assist in generating a list of potential chemical compounds, each of said potential chemical compounds comprising one or more reagents from a reagent list, said reagent list comprising a list of reagents that, as selectively combined, will produce a set of compounds that will exhibit activities/properties more closely matching said prescribed set of activities/properties as predicted by structure-activity models derived from analysis of (a) structure-activity data of compounds contained in a directed diversity chemical library, and (b) historical structure-activity data of compounds synthesized in the past; candidate compound identifying means for enabling a computer to assist in identifying from said list of potential chemical compounds a plurality of candidate compounds suitable for synthesis; and synthesis instruction generating means for enabling a computer to assist in generating synthesis instructions that control synthesis of at least a subset of said candidate compounds. 14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said computer program logic further comprises: optimal set selecting means for enabling a computer to at least assist in selecting an optimal set of said candidate compounds to synthesize based on at least one of the following factors: (i) their respective predicted abilities to exhibit activity/properties more closely matching said prescribed set of activity/properties as indicated by said structure-activity models; (ii) their respective predicted abilities to validate said structure-activity models; (iii) their respective predicted abilities to discriminate between said structure-activity models; (iv) their respective predicted abilities to have superior three-dimensional receptor fit; and (v) similarity between their respective structural, physical, or chemical characteristics and characteristics of compounds in a structure-activity database whose activity/properties most closely conform to said prescribed set of activity/properties. 15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein said optimal set selecting means comprises: means for enabling a computer to at least assist in selecting said optimal set by individually ranking said candidate compounds based on at least one of factors (i)-(v). 16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein said optimal set selecting means comprises: means for enabling a computer to at least assist in selecting said optimal set by ranking combinations of said candidate compounds based on at least one of factors (i)-(v). 17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said computer program logic further comprises: structure-activity model derivation means for enabling a computer to at least assist in analyzing structure-activity data of said compounds contained in said directed diversity chemical library and said historical structure-activity data pertaining to said compounds synthesized and analyzed in the past to derive said structure-activity models, wherein said structure-activity models have enhanced predictive and discriminating capabilities. 18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said computer program logic further comprises: reagent identifying means for enabling a computer to at least assist in identifying, in accordance with said structure-activity models, reagents from a reagent database for inclusion in said reagent list. 