A high-throughput light detection instrument and method are described. In some embodiments, switch mechanisms and optical relay structures permit different light sources and/or detectors to be selected for different applications. In other embodiments, switch mechanisms and optical paths permit top/bottom illumination and/or top/bottom detection, or combinations thereof.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for detecting light from a composition, the apparatus comprising: a stage for supporting a composition at an examination site; at least two light sources and a first optical relay structure that directs light from one of the light sources toward the composition; a detector and a second optical relay structure that directs light from the composition toward the detector; and a first switch mechanism that alters alignment of the first optical relay structure from one of the light sources to another of the light sources, so that different light sources can be selected and directed toward the examination site for different applications. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second detector and a second switch mechanism that alters alignment of the second optical relay structure from one of the detectors to another of the detectors, so that different detectors can be selected for different applications. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least a third light source, the first switch mechanism being capable of aligning any one of the tight sources with the second optical relay structure, so that light from said one of the light sources is directed toward the composition. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one of the light sources is a high-intensity, high-color temperature arc lamp. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a controller that can be preprogrammed to activate the first switch mechanism, so that a selected light source is directed toward the composition for a particular assay. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a bar code reader connected to the controller and positioned to read a bar code on a microplate that holds the composition, wherein the bar code contains light source-selection information that is utilized by the controller to activate the first switch mechanism. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a filter alignment mechanism holding plural filters positioned near at least two of the light sources, so that any one of the filters can be aligned alternately with any one of the said light sources and the first optical relay structure. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the filter alignment mechanism includes a filter wheel, and wherein any one of the filters can be aligned with the said light sources and the first optical relay structure by rotating the filter wheel. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the filter alignment mechanism includes a linear filter holder, and wherein any one of the filters can be aligned with the said light sources and the first optical relay structure by sliding the sliding filter holder. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the switch mechanism includes a shuttle that transports an end of the first optical relay structure from alignment with one light source into alignment with another light source. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first optical relay structure defines a first optical path directed toward the top side of the examination site and a second optical path directed toward the bottom side of the examination site, the first switch mechanism being capable of aligning any one of the light sources with any one of the optical light paths in the second optical relay structure. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the second optical relay structure defines a third optical path directed toward the top side of the examination site and a fourth optical path directed toward the bottom side of the examination site, further comprising a second switch mechanism that is capable of aligning the detector and any one of the third and fourth optical paths, so that coordinated actuation of the first and second switch mechanisms permits interchangeable configuration of any one of the following light transmission routes to and from a composition located at the examination site: (a) top-illumination and top-detection, (b) top-illumination and bottom-detection, (c) bottom-illumination and top-detection, and (d) bottom-illumination and bottom-detection. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an automated registration device that automatically brings successive compositions and the examination site into register for successive analysis of the compositions. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stage is configured to hold a microplate having an array of sample wells. 15. An apparatus for detecting light from a composition, the apparatus comprising: a stage for supporting a composition at an examination site; a light source and a first optical relay structure that directs light from the light source toward the composition; at least two detectors and a second optical relay structure that directs light from the composition to one of the detectors; and a first switch mechanism that alters alignment of the second optical relay structure from one of the detectors to another of the detectors, so that different detectors can be selected for different applications. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising at least a third detector, the first switch mechanism being capable of aligning any one of the detectors with the second optical relay structure, so that light from the composition is directed to said one of the detectors. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a separate detector and a third optical relay structure that directs light from the composition to the separate detector, wherein the first optical relay structure cannot direct light toward the composition when the third optical relay structure directs light from the composition toward the separate detector. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the separate detector and the third optical relay structure are configured to detect chemiluminescence. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein at least one of the detectors detects photoluminescence. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein at least two of the detectors are photomultiplier tubes or photodiodes, and wherein each photomultiplier tube or photodiode is selected for a different application. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a controller that can be preprogrammed to activate the first switch mechanism, so that light transmitted from the composition is directed toward one of the detectors that is selected for a particular assay. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a bar code reader connected to the controller and positioned to read a bar code on a microplate that holds the composition, wherein the bar code contains detector-selection information that is utilized by the controller to activate the first switch mechanism. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a filter alignment mechanism holding plural filters positioned near at least two of the detectors, so that any one of the filters can be rotated into alignment with any one of the said detectors and the second optical relay structure. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the filter alignment mechanism includes a filter wheel, and wherein any one of the filters can be aligned with any one of the said detectors and the second optical relay structure by rotating the filter wheel. 25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the filter alignment mechanism includes a linear filter holder, and wherein any one of the filters can be aligned with any one of the said detectors and the second optical relay structure by sliding the linear filter holder. 26. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first switch mechanism includes a shuttle that transports an end of the second optical relay structure from alignment with one detector into alignment with another detector. 27. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the second optical relay structure defines a first optical path directed toward the top side of the examination site and a second optical path directed toward the bottom side of the examination site, the first switch mechanism being capable of aligning any one of the detectors with any one of the optical light paths in the second optical relay structure. 28. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising an automated registration device that automatically brings successive compositions and the examination site into register for successive analysis of the compositions. 29. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the stage is configured to hold a microplate having an array of sample wells. 30. An apparatus for detecting light from a composition, the apparatus comprising: a stage for supporting a composition at an examination site, the examination site having a top side and a bottom side; at least one light source and a first optical relay structure defining a first optical path directed toward the top side of the examination site and a second optical path directed toward the bottom side of the examination site; at least one detector and a second optical relay structure that directs light from the composition toward the detector; and a first switch mechanism that alters alignment of the light source from one of the optical paths to the other optical path. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the second optical relay structure defines a third optical path directed toward the top side of the examination site and a fourth optical path directed toward the bottom side of the examination site, further comprising a second switch mechanism that is capable of aligning the detector and any one of the third and fourth optical paths, so that coordinated actuation of the first and second switches mechanisms permits interchangeable configuration of any one of the following light transmission routes to and from a composition located at the examination site: (a) top-illumination and top-detection, (b) top-illumination and bottom-detection, (c) bottom-illumination and top-detection, and (d) bottom-illumination and bottom-detection. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising a first optics head positioned above the stage, and a second optics head positioned below the stage, wherein the first and third optical paths are directed through the first optics head, and the second and fourth optical paths are directed through the second optics head. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising at least a second light source, wherein the first switch mechanism is capable of aligning any one of the optical paths with any one of the light sources. 34. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising at least a second detector and a second switch mechanism that alters alignment of the second optical relay structure from one of the detectors to another of the detectors, so that different detectors can be selected for different applications. 35. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising at least a second light source, the first switch mechanism being capable of aligning any one of the light sources with the first optical relay structure, so that light from said one of the light sources is directed toward the composition. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, further comprising a filter alignment mechanism holding plural filters positioned near the two light sources, so that any one of the filters can be aligned with any one of the light sources and the first optical relay structure. 37. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein one of the light sources is a high-intensity, high-color temperature arc lamp. 38. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a controller that can be preprogrammed to activate the first switch mechanism, so that light from the light source is directed through one of the optical paths that is selected as being the most appropriate for a particular assay. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, further comprising a bar code reader connected to the controller and positioned to read a bar code on a microplate that holds the composition, wherein the bar code contains information that is utilized by the controller to activate the first switch mechanism. 40. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the first switch mechanism includes a shuttle that transports an end of one of the optical paths into alignment with the light source. 41. An apparatus for detecting light from a composition, the apparatus comprising: a stage for supporting a composition at an examination site having a top side and a bottom side; at least one light source and a first optical relay structure that directs light from the light source toward the composition; at least one detector and a second optical relay structure defining a first optical path directed toward the top side of the examination site and a second optical path directed toward the bottom side of the examination site; and a first switch mechanism that alters alignment of the detector from one of the optical paths to the other optical path. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, further comprising at least a second detector, wherein the first switch mechanism is capable of aligning any one of the optical paths with any one of the detectors. 43. The apparatus of claim 41, further comprising at least a second light source and a second switch mechanism that alters alignment of the first optical relay structure from one of the light sources to another of the light sources, so that different light sources can be selected for different applications. 44. The apparatus of claim 41, further comprising at least a second detector, the first switch mechanism being capable of aligning any one of the detectors with the second optical relay structure, so that light from said one of the detectors is directed toward the composition. 45. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising a filter alignment mechanism holding plural filters positioned near the two detectors, so that any one of the filters can be aligned with any one of the detectors and the second optical relay structure. 46. The apparatus of claim 41, further comprising a controller that can be preprogrammed to activate the first switch mechanism, so that light transmitted from the composition is directed through one of the optical paths that is selected as being the most appropriate for a particular assay. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, further comprising a bar code reader connected to the controller and positioned to read a bar code on a microplate that holds the composition, wherein the bar code contains information that is utilized by the controller to activate the first switch mechanism. 48. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the first switch mechanism includes a shuttle that transports an end of one of the optical paths into alignment with the light source. 49. A method of detecting light from a sample, the method comprising: providing a plurality of light sources, at least one detector, and an optical relay structure in a light detection instrument, wherein the optical relay structure directs light from one of the light sources toward a composition at an examination site; selecting one of the light sources using a first switch mechanism that alters alignment of the optical relay structure from one of the light sources to another of the light sources; relaying light from the selected light source through the optical relay structure to the composition; and detecting light transmitted from the composition. 50. The method of claim 49, further comprising: providing at least a second detector; and selecting one of the detectors to receive light transmitted from the composition. 51. The method of claim 49, further comprising: providing a first optical path that directs light toward the top of the composition, and a second optical path that directs light toward the bottom of the composition; and selecting one of the optical paths to transmit light from the light source to the composition. 52. A method of detecting light from a sample, comprising: providing at least one light source, a plurality of detectors, and an optical relay structure in a light detection instrument, wherein the optical relay structure directs light from a composition at an examination site toward one of the detectors; selecting one of the detectors using a first switch mechanism that alters alignment of the first optical relay structure from one of the detectors to another of the detectors; illuminating the composition; and relaying light from the composition through the optical relay structure to the selected detector. 53. The method of claim 52, further comprising: providing a first optical path that receives and directs light from the top of the composition, and a second optical path that receives and directs light form the bottom of the composition; and selecting one of the optical paths to transmit light from the composition to the one of the detectors. 54. An apparatus for detecting light transmitted from a composition, the apparatus comprising: a stage for supporting a composition at an examination site, a plurality of adjacent light source compartments, each compartment having an opening for transmitting light from a light source contained in the compartment, a detector compartment, the compartment having an opening for transmitting light to a detector contained in the compartment, and a light source selection device including a first light-transmission pathway for directing light from a first light source in a first light source compartment toward a composition at the examination site when the light source selection device is set in a first position, and a second light-transmission pathway for directing light from a second light source in a second light source compartment toward the composition when the light source selection device is set in a second position, so that different light sources can be used for different applications by actuating the light source selection device between the first and second positions. 55. The apparatus of claim 54, further comprising at least one optical head having an input port that receives light from one of the light sources, and an output port that directs light, transmitted through the input port, directly to the examination site, so that when the light source selection device is in the first position, the first light-transmission pathway transmits light from the first light source to the input port of the optical head, and when the light source selection device is in the second position, the second light-transmission pathway transmits light from the second light source to the input port of the optical head. 56. An apparatus for detecting light transmitted from a composition, the apparatus comprising: a stage for supporting a composition at an examination site, a light source compartment, the compartment having an opening for transmitting light from a light source contained in the compartment, a plurality of adjacent detector compartments, each compartment having an opening for transmitting light to a detector contained in the compartment, and a detector selection device including a first light-transmission pathway for directing light transmitted from a composition at the examination site toward a first detector when the detector selection device is set in a first position, and a second light-transmission pathway for directing light from the composition toward a second detector when the detector selection device is set in a second position, so that different detectors can be used for different applications by actuating the detector selection device between the first and second positions. 57. The apparatus of claim 56, further comprising at least one optical head having an input port that receives light directly from the examination site, and an output port that transmits light toward the detectors, so that when the detector selection devices is in the first position, the first light-transmission pathway transmits light from the output port of the optical head to the first detector, and when the detector selection device is in the second position, the second light-transmission pathway transmits light from the output port of the optical head to the second detector. 