A manual quick change tool changer, said tool changer including a master plate. The master plate connected to a rotatable sprocket with the sprocket having a plurality of teeth. A thrust bearing engaging the sprocket. A handle connected to the sprocket such that the handle moves a predetermined distance. The tool changer further including a secondary plate that mates with the master plate. The secondary plate further including a plurality of leaves such that the plurality of teeth from the master plate locks underneath the leaves of the secondary plate to secure the master plate to the secondary plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manual quick change tool changer, said tool changer including: a master plate, said master plate connected to a rotatable sprocket, said sprocket having a plurality of teeth; a thrust bearing engaging said sprocket; a handle connected to said sprocket, said handle moves a predetermined distance; a secondary plate that mates with said master plate, said secondary plate having a plurality of leaves, said plurality of teeth locks under said plurality of leaves to secure said master plate to said secondary plate. 2. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said predetermined distance is approximately 30.degree.. 3. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said plurality of teeth have a slope on one side thereof. 4. The tool changer of claim 3 wherein said slope engages with said plurality of leaves and pulls up said secondary plate. 5. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said master plate has a central pivot point. 6. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said secondary plate has a locking pin. 7. The tool changer of claim 6 wherein said locking pin is a ball lock pin. 8. The tool changer of claim 6 wherein said locking pin limits said handle from rotating. 9. The tool changer of claim 1 wherein said master plate having an utility module connected thereto. 10. The tool changer of claim 9 wherein said utility module having electrical and air utilities. 11. A manual quick change tool changer for use in robotic based applications, said tool changer including: a master plate, said master plate having a rotatable sprocket, said sprocket having a plurality of teeth; a handle connected to said sprocket, said handle rotates a predetermined distance; a secondary plate that mates with said master plate, said secondary plate having an orifice for said handle, said secondary plate having a plurality of leaves, said plurality of teeth overlap said plurality of leaves to secure said secondary plate to said master plate. 12. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 further including a thrust bearing engaging said sprocket. 13. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 wherein said master plate is partially inserted within said secondary plate to create a single unit. 14. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 wherein said predetermined distance is 30.degree.. 15. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 wherein said plurality of teeth have a slope on one side thereof. 16. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 15 wherein said slope engages with said plurality of leaves and pulls up on said secondary plate. 17. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 wherein said master plate creates a central pivot point for said sprocket. 18. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 wherein said secondary plate having a locking pin. 19. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 18 wherein said locking pin is a ball lock pin. 20. The manual quick change tool changer of claim 11 further including an utility module connected to said master plate. 