A data cartridge interlock release actuator system for disabling a data cartridge lock within a data cartridge caddy to enable an autochanger to remove a data cartridge from the data cartridge caddy. The interlock release actuator is a cam shaft within the autochanger storage rack. The cam shaft has lobes and a lever attached to it. When the autochanger needs to remove a data cartridge from the caddy, the picker of the autochanger or a motor or a solenoid rotates the lever, which rotates the cam shaft, which rotates the lobes. When the lobes rotate, they depress a button on top of a data cartridge caddy. When the button is depressed, a spring lock that locks the data cartridges within the caddy is disabled and the data cartridges may be removed from the caddy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data cartridge interlock release actuator system for releasing data cartridges from data cartridge caddies in an autochanger storage rack, said data cartridge interlock release actuator system comprising: at least one data cartridge caddy with a button, wherein when said at least one data cartridge caddy is in an autochanger storage rack, said autochanger storage rack is capable of holding more than one data cartridge caddy, said data cartridge interlock release actuator system depresses said button to disables a lock spring within said at least one data cartridge caddy and permits one or more data cartridges to be removed from said at least one data cartridge caddy, said data cartridge interlock release actuator is capable of disabling a lock spring within more than one data cartridge caddy at the same time; a cam shaft rotatingly attached to said autochanger storage rack; at least one lobe on said cam shaft, corresponding to a position of said button on said at least one data cartridge caddy when said at least one data cartridge caddy is installed in said autochanger storage rack, wherein when said cam shaft is rotated said at least one lobe engages and depresses said button on said at least one data cartridge caddy; and means for rotating said cam shaft when said autochanger attempts to remove a data cartridge from said at least one data cartridge caddy. 2. The data cartridge interlock release actuator system according to claim 1, wherein said means for rotating said cam shaft comprises a lever. 3. The data cartridge interlock release actuator system according to claim 2, wherein said means for rotating said cam shaft comprises the autochanger picker moving said lever. 4. The data cartridge interlock release actuator system according to claim 1, wherein said means for rotating said cam shaft comprises a motor. 5. The data cartridge interlock release actuator system according to claim 1, wherein said means for rotating said cam shaft comprises a solenoid. 