A self-centering drive socket device and associated installation method. The device includes a socket member, coupler and sliding lock body. The sliding lock body is preferably connected to a drive mechanism that provides rotational movement. The device and method allows for the installation of misaligned fasteners by disengaging the sliding lock body from a cavity in the coupler so that the socket member becomes freely angularly displaceable with respect to a central axis of the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-centering drive device for use with a driving mechanism having a drive shaft, comprising: a socket member having a fastener engaging portion located at a distal end thereof and a coupling portion located at a proximal end thereof; a coupler with a tapered internal cavity, the cavity designed to receive a portion of the proximal end of the socket member and having a non-circular cross-section that tapers inward along a proximal to distal direction; a sliding lock body having a cavity for non-rotatably receiving a corresponding section of the coupling portion of the socket member, and an exterior that substantially corresponds in shape to the cavity in the coupler; a retaining clip for engaging a groove in the coupling portion of the socket member, said retaining clip for securing the sliding lock body on the socket member; and a spring for installation into the cavity in said coupler so as to bias the socket member and sliding lock body toward a distal end of the coupler when the self-centering drive device is installed to a driving mechanism; wherein, in a normal state, the socket member and coupler are substantially aligned about a central axis; and wherein, in a released state, the socket member is freely angularly displaceable from the central axis. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a shoulder between the proximal end and distal end of the socket member, the shoulder acting as a stop against which a distal end of the sliding lock body rests when installed on the socket member. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein at least a portion of the shoulder of the socket member is received in the internal cavity of the coupler. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupling portion of the socket member includes a forward section of non-circular cross section and the cavity in the sliding lock body is of corresponding shape. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupler further comprises a detent pocket or hole for receiving a corresponding retention element of a drive mechanism. 6. The device of claim 1, further comprising a washer positioned between the retaining clip and a proximal end of the sliding lock body. 7. The device of claim 1, further comprising a spring pad interposed between the spring and the retaining clip, the spring pad having a recess that receives a portion of the proximal end of the socket member. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the configuration of the fastener engaging portion of the socket member is selected from the group consisting of a socket well, a screwdriver bit, a hex head bit, and a TORX bit. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the socket member further comprises a magnet set into the distal end thereof for releasably retaining a fastener by magnetic force. 10. A self-centering drive device for use with a driving mechanism having a drive shaft, comprising: a socket member having a fastener engaging portion located at a distal end thereof and a coupling portion located at a proximal end thereof, the coupling portion having a forward section of non-circular cross-section and a rearward section; a coupler with a tapered internal cavity, the cavity designed to receive a portion of the proximal end of the socket member and having a non-circular cross-section that tapers inward along a proximal to distal direction; a sliding lock body having a cavity for receiving and engaging the forward section of the coupling portion of the socket member, and an exterior that tapers in a proximal to distal direction and that substantially corresponds in shape to the cavity in the coupler; a retaining clip for engaging a groove in the rearward section of the coupling portion of the socket member, said retaining clip for securing the sliding lock body on the socket member; and a spring for installation into the cavity in said coupler so as to bias the socket member and sliding lock body toward a distal end of the coupler when the self-centering drive device is installed to a driving mechanism; wherein, in the absence of an overpowering compression force on the socket member, the spring maintains the sliding lock body in engaged contact with walls of the cavity in the coupler such that the socket member and coupler are substantially aligned about a central axis; and wherein, upon application of an overpowering compression force on the socket member, the spring is compressed, releasing the sliding lock from contact with walls of the cavity in the coupler such that the socket member is freely angularly displaceable from the central axis. 11. The device of claim 10, further comprising a shoulder between the proximal end and distal end of the socket member, the shoulder acting as a stop against which a distal end of the sliding lock body rests when installed on the socket member. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein at least a portion of the internal cavity of the coupler accepts at least a portion of a driving shaft of a drive mechanism. 13. The device of claim 11, wherein the coupler further comprises a detent pocket or hole for receiving a corresponding retention element of a drive mechanism. 14. The device of claim 11, further comprising a washer positioned between the retaining clip and a proximal end of the sliding lock body. 15. The device of claim 11, further comprising a spring pad interposed between the spring and the retaining clip, the spring pad having a recess that receives a portion of the proximal end of the socket member. 16. The device of claim 11, wherein the configuration of the fastener engaging portion of the socket member is selected from the group consisting of a socket well, a screwdriver bit, a hex head bit, and a TORX bit. 17. The device of claim 11, wherein the socket member further comprises a magnet set into the distal end thereof for releasably retaining a fastener by magnetic force. 18. A self-centering drive device for use with a driving mechanism having a drive shaft, comprising: a socket member having a fastener engaging portion located at a distal end thereof and a coupling portion located at a proximal end thereof, the coupling portion having a forward section of non-circular cross-section and a rearward section with a clip retaining groove, the socket member further including a shoulder located between the proximal end and distal end thereof, the shoulder acting as a stop against which a distal end of a sliding lock body rests when installed on the socket member; a coupler with a stepped internal cavity, a proximal section of the cavity adapted for engagement with at least a portion of a driving shaft of a drive mechanism, a middle portion of the cavity designed to receive a portion of the proximal end of the socket member and a sliding lock body and having a non-circular cross-section that tapers inward along a proximal to distal direction; a sliding lock body having a cavity for receiving and engaging the forward section of the coupling portion of the socket member, and an exterior that tapers in a proximal to distal direction and that substantially corresponds in shape to the middle portion of the cavity in the coupler; a retaining clip for engaging the groove in the rearward section of the coupling portion of the socket member, said retaining clip for securing the sliding lock body on the socket member; a washer interposed between the retaining clip and a proximal end of the sliding lock body; a spring for installation into the cavity in said coupler so as to bias the socket member and sliding lock body toward a distal end of the coupler when the self-centering drive device is installed to a driving mechanism; and a spring pad interposed between the spring and the retaining clip, the spring pad having a recess that receives a portion of the proximal end of the socket member; wherein, in the absence of an overpowering contrary force on the socket member, the spring maintains the sliding lock body in engaged contact with walls of the cavity in the coupler such that the socket member and coupler are substantially aligned about a central axis; and wherein, upon application of an overpowering contrary force on the socket member, the spring is compressed, releasing the sliding lock from contact with walls of the cavity in the coupler such that the socket member is freely angularly displaceable from the central axis. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein the configuration of the fastener engaging portion of the socket member is selected from the group consisting of a socket well, a screwdriver bit, a hex head bit, and a TORX bit. 20. The device of claim 18, wherein the socket member further comprises a magnet set into the distal end thereof for releasably retaining a fastener by magnetic force. 