A milking robot has articulated arms extensible into a milking compartment to place teat cups onto each of the animal's teats. Also extended from outside into the compartment is a further articulated arm that carries a detector for ascertaining the location of the animal's teats, such information being used to connect the teat cups automatically. An electromagnetic gripper at the end of each robot arm has a seat to match the corresponding teat cup's shell. Each teat cup is loosely connected to two cables. A generally vertical cable connects it to an upper part of the milking compartment. A generally horizontal cable extends from a corresponding teat cup carrier located outside the parlor. The teat cups are moved to be received by the animal's teats by the robot arms and grippers which are then withdrawn from the milking compartment. Teat cups dislodged from teats are supported in approximately an upright position by their vertical cables and are pulled to teat cup carriers outside the compartment by their horizontal cables. Flexible milk and vacuum conduits for the teat cups extend therefrom out of the milking compartment on each side, curving upwardly to be received by a connector block. Because the flexible milk and vacuum conduits are curved and the teat cups are connected only loosely by the upper and lower cables, the animal cam move within limits while being milked.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of milking animals, such as cows, comprising the steps of automatically connecting two teat cups to two of the animal's teats, commencing milking said two teats with said two teat cups while automatically connecting two other teat cups to two other teats of the animal and subsequently commencing the milking of said two further teats via said two other teat cups. 2. A method according to claim 1, comprising teat cup gripping means wherein the said gripping means first connects one of said two teat cups to one of said two teats and thereafter connects one of said two other teat cups to one of said two other teats. 3. A method of milking animals, such as cows, comprising the steps of automatically connecting two teat cups to two of the animal's teats, commencing milking said two teats with said two teats cups while automatically connecting two other teat cups to two other teats of the animal and subsequently commencing the milking of said two further teats via said two other teat cups, providing teat cup gripping means wherein said gripping means first connects one of said two teat cups to one of said two teats and thereafter connects one of said two other teat cups to one of said two other teats, the engaging of said teat cups by said gripping means being accomplished by magnetic attraction from an electromagnetic in said gripping means. 4. A method according claim 3 wherein said gripping means has a curved recess which corresponds to a shell of each teat cup which it engages and said electromagnet in said gripping means is correspondingly curved and selectively energized for effecting the connection of said gripping means to said teat cups. 5. A method of according to claim 1 comprising a laser detector for detecting the location of the animal's teats, said laser detector transmitting data to control means for effecting the steps of automatically connecting said teat cups to the animal's teats. 6. A method according to claim 1 comprising robotic milking apparatus that commences the milking of said animal on the connection of said teat cups to the animal's teats and subsequently completes the milking of the animal's teats whereupon said teat cups automatically disconnect from the teats of the animal. 7. A method of automatically removing teat cups from an animal being milked without permitting the teat cups to touch the underlying surface wherein the teat cups are connected to the teats of the animal being milked by flexible members, the method comprising the steps of: breaking the vacuum in at least one of said teat cups so that the vacuum no longer retains said one teat cup on the animal's teat and said one teat cup is dislodged from said animal's teat; and moving said one teat cup substantially horizontally by pulling it with a first substantially horizontal flexible member to a teat cup holder while simultaneously maintaining said teat cup in an upright position by a second substantially vertically disposed flexible member pivoting from a point adjacent the side of the animal so that said teat cup moves in an arc and is retained above the underlying surface during its said arcuate movement immediately after said breaking of vacuum and dislodgement from said teat to said teat cup holder. 8. A method in accordance with claim 7, wherein said point is approximately at a level above the underlying surface of eighty percent of the height of the animal measured in a vertical plane which is transverse to the backbone of the animal and passes through the animals udder. 9. A method in accordance with claim 7 wherein said point is at a level above the underlying surface which is at least one meter. 10. A method in accordance with claim 7 wherein said first flexible member is connected to the bottom of said teat cup and said second flexible member is connected to an upper part of said teat cup. 11. A method in accordance with claim 7 wherein said animal is being milked in a milking compartment and said teat cup holder is disposed outside of said milking compartment. 12. A method in accordance with claim 7, comprising a pneumatic piston/cylinder unit which is connected to said first flexible member for pulling said teat cup substantially horizontally upon dislodgement from said teat. 13. A method in accordance with claim 12 comprising a milking compartment wherein said pneumatic piston/cylinder unit is disposed longitudinally relative to said milking compartment in a position which is adjacent to the said underlying surface and a side of said milking compartment. 14. A method of automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising the steps of: automatically connecting two teat cups to two of the animal's teats and commencing milking said two teats with said two teat cups; subsequently automatically connecting two further teat cups to the other two teats of the animal and commencing the milking of said two other teats via said two further teat cups; sensing when milking has been completed for the udder quarter of each of said teats; breaking the vacuum in at least one of said teat cups when it has been sensed by said sensing step that the milking has been completed from the udder quarter for the teat in said one teat cup; and moving said one teat cup by pulling it with a first flexible member to a teat cup holder while simultaneously retaining said teat cup in an upright position by a second substantially vertically disposed flexible member pivoting from a point adjacent the side of the animal so that said one teat cup moves in an arc and is retained above the underlying ground during its movement from immediately after its disconnection from the corresponding teat until its arrival at said teat cup holder. 15. A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein said pivoting point of said second substantially vertical member is disposed at a height above the underlying ground which is sufficient to ensure that said one teat cup does not touch the underlying ground when it is pivoted from the position it occupies immediately after it is no longer retained on the animal's teat and while it is moved to said teat cup holder. 16. A method in accordance with claim 15 wherein said pivoting point is disposed at a height of at least one meter above the underlying ground. 17. A method in accordance with claim 16 wherein said first flexible member is connected to the bottom of said teat cup and said second flexible member is connected to an upper part of said teat cup. 18. A method in accordance with claim 17 comprising a milking compartment in which the animal is automatically milked, said teat cup holder being outside of said milking compartment. 19. A method in accordance with claim 18 comprising a piston/cylinder unit which is connected to said first flexible member for moving said one teat cup to said teat cup holder. 20. A method in accordance with claim 19 wherein said piston/cylinder unit is pneumatically operated and is disposed in a horizontal position parallel to the longitudinal direction of said milking compartment adjacent said underlying ground at the side of said milking compartment. 