An apparatus detects an opening in a fluid flow passageway such as occurs when a resistance welding cap which is cooled by the fluid flow becomes accidently detached from a welding machine. Upon detection of an opening, an air-actuated pinch lever is activated to quickly pinch shut flexible fluid inlet and outlet hoses and thereby shut off the fluid flow. Inlet and outlet flow rate sensors provide periodic outputs to a digital computer which determines directions of inlet and outlet flow acceleration. If either the inlet or outlet acceleration changes direction, a baseline inlet or outlet flow rate is set equal to the corresponding current flow rate value to prevent erroneous opening detection due to normal flow fluctuations. If the inlet and outlet accelerations are in the same direction, the baseline values are similarly updated. If the inlet acceleration is positive and the outlet acceleration is negative, it indicates a probable opening. Another test is made to preclude an erroneous detection by determining if the inlet and outlet flow rates are different from the baseline values by more than a predetermined percentage. If so, a valid opening is indicated and the fluid flow is shut off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for detecting an opening in a fluid flow passageway having an inlet and an outlet, comprising: an inlet sensor for sensing an inlet flow rate; an outlet sensor for sensing an outlet flow rate; and a computer which is responsive to the inlet and outlet sensors and is programmed to determine a direction of an inlet flow acceleration and an outlet flow acceleration; determine if a first condition is present in which the inlet flow acceleration and outlet flow acceleration are in different directions; determine if a second condition is present in which the inlet flow rate is different from an inlet baseline value by more than a first predetermined value, and the outlet flow rate is different from an outlet baseline value by more than a second predetermined value; and generate an opening detection indication in response to presence of both the first and second conditions. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a shutoff device for selectively shutting off fluid flow through the inlet and the outlet, in which: the computer is further programmed to control the shutoff device to shut off the fluid flow in response to the opening detection indication. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2, in which: the fluid flow passageway comprises a flexible inlet section which communicates with the inlet and a flexible outlet section which communicates with the outlet; and the shutoff device is configured to pinch shut the inlet section and the outlet section in response to the opening detection indication. 4. An apparatus as in claim 3, in which the shutoff device comprises: a pinch member which is movable between a disengaged position in which the pinch member is disengaged from the inlet and outlet sections and an engaged position in which the pinch member pinches shut the inlet and outlet sections; and an actuator which is controlled by the computer to selectively move the pinch member to the disengaged position or to the engaged position. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which: the inlet sensor is configured to periodically sense the inlet flow rate and generate a first interrupt signal at a beginning of a period; the computer is programmed, in response to the first interrupt signal, to determine the direction of the inlet flow acceleration; determine if the first condition is present; determine if the second condition is present; and generate the opening detection indication in response to presence of both the first and second conditions; the outlet sensor is configured to periodically sense the outlet flow rate and generate a second interrupt signal at a beginning of a period; and the computer is programmed, in response to the second interrupt signal, to determine the direction of the outlet flow acceleration; determine if the first condition is present; determine if the second condition is present; and generate the opening detection indication in response to presence of both the first and second conditions. 6. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is programmed to determine if the first condition is present before determining if the second condition is present. 7. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is programmed to determine if the second condition is present before determining if the first condition is present. 8. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; set the inlet baseline value equal to the inlet flow rate in response to presence of the third condition; determine if a fourth condition is present in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and set the outlet baseline value equal to the outlet flow rate in response to presence of the fourth condition. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; determine if the first condition is present in response to absence of the third condition; determine if a fourth condition is present in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and determine if the first condition is present in response to absence of the fourth condition. 10. An apparatus as in claim 9, in which the computer is programmed to determine if the third or forth condition is present before determining if the first condition is present. 11. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; determine if the second condition is present in response to absence of the third condition; determine if a fourth condition is present in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and determine if the second condition is present in response to absence of the fourth condition. 12. An apparatus as in claim 11, in which the computer is programmed to determine if the third or forth condition is present before determining if the second condition is present. 13. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which the inlet flow acceleration has changed direction; set the inlet baseline value equal to the inlet flow rate in response to absence of both the first and third conditions; determine if a fourth condition is present in which the outlet flow acceleration has changed direction; and set the outlet baseline value equal to the outlet flow rate in response to absence of both the first and fourth conditions. 14. An apparatus as in claim 13, in which the computer is programmed to determine if the third or fourth condition is present before determining if the second condition is present. 15. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which: the fluid flow passageway comprises a detachable member; and the opening is constituted by detachment of the detachable member. 16. An apparatus as in claim 15, in which the detachable member comprises a welding cap. 17. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the first and second predetermined values are equal. 18. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the first and second predetermined values are within a range of approximately 5% to 25%. 19. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the first and second predetermined values are approximately 12.5%. 20. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which an inlet flow rate is below a predetermined trip point value; and generate a low flow indication in response to presence of the third condition. 21. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which an outlet flow rate is below a predetermined trip point value; and generate a low flow indication in response to presence of the third condition. 22. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the computer is further programmed to determine if a third condition is present in which a flow rate is below a predetermined trip point value; generate a low flow indication in response to presence of the third condition; terminate determining if the first and second conditions are present; determining if a fourth condition is present in which the flow rate has increased above the trip point value; and determining if the first and second conditions are present in response to presence of the fourth condition. 23. An apparatus as in claim 1, in which the first condition is limited to the inlet flow acceleration being positive and the outlet flow acceleration being negative. 