A rotating and translating support assembly for receiving a front-opening pod according to applicable SEMI standards, and thereafter rotating the pod to a desired orientation. In this way, a number of pods may be received at interface ports of a minienvironment, and each of the pods and ports may be angled toward and aligned with a single, 2-arm pick and place robot. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the rotating and translating support assembly comprises a plate rotationally and translationally mounted on a shelf extending from the minienvironment adjacent to a front-opening interface port. In one embodiment, the support plate may be mounted on a shaft attached to a rotating assembly, such as for example a worm and drive gear. The rotating assembly may in turn be mounted on a translating assembly, such as for example a carriage riding on a lead screw. The rotating and translating assemblies may be controlled by a host computer, so as to rotate and translate a pod received on the support plate, to align the pod with an interface port which may be provided at an angle with respect to the front of the minienvironment.
Claims We claim: 1. A rotating and translating support assembly for interfacing a front-opening pod with a front-loading interface of a minienvironment, the front-loading interface provided at a variable angle with respect to a reference plane, the rotating and translating support assembly comprising: a plate for receiving and supporting the pod; a shaft fixedly mounted to an underside of said plate; rotating means for rotating said shaft and said plate; translating means, said rotating means being mounted on said translating means, said translating means capable of translating said rotating means and said plate in a horizontal plane; adjustable support pins, said adjustable support pins located under said rotating means and said translating means for supporting said plate in a horizontal position; and control means for controlling said rotating means and said translating means to rotationally and translationally align the pod with the interface. 2. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said shaft is supported within a housing, said shaft and said plate rotating with respect to said housing. 3. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 2, wherein said shaft and said plate are rotated by a rotation motor mounted within said housing. 4. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 3, wherein said shaft includes a worm gear mounted thereon, said worm gear driven by a drive gear affixed to said rotation motor. 5. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said translating means includes a first carriage for mounting said rotating means thereon, said translating means further including a first lead screw for translating said first carriage. 6. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 5, wherein said first carriage is also mounted on rails for providing enhanced stability. 7. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 5, further comprising a second translating means for translating said plate in a direction substantially parallel to the front-loading interface. 8. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 7, wherein said second translating means includes a second lead screw substantially perpendicular to said first lead screw, said first lead screw mounted on said second lead screw by a second carriage. 9. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said shaft is eccentrically located on the underside of said plate. 10. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising an eccentric extension on said plate, said shaft being fixedly mounted on said eccentric extension. 11. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said plate includes a plurality of protrusions and said pod includes a plurality of features on a bottom of said pod, said protrusions and said features for mating and ensuring that said pod is positioned in a predetermined rotational orientation on said plate. 12. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said translating means moves said plate away from the front-loading interface when receiving said pod. 13. A translating and pivoting support assembly for interfacing a front-opening pod onto an interface port of a minienvironment, comprising: a plate for receiving and supporting the pod, said plate being mounted to the minienvironment by a coupling; a bracket fixedly mounted to an underside of said plate; a pivoting means for pivoting said bracket and said plate about said coupling, said pivoting means including a connecting member having a first end pivotally mounted to said bracket; a translating means having said pivoting means mounted thereon by a carriage such that said pivoting means includes a second end pivotally mounted to said carriage, said translating means for translating said bracket and said plate; and control means for controlling said pivoting means and said translating means to pivotally and transnationally align the pod with the interface. 14. The translating and pivoting support assembly as recited in claim 13, wherein said translating means includes a lead screw for translating said carriage. 15. A rotating and translating support assembly for interfacing a plurality of front-opening pods on a plurality of front-loading interfaces of a minienvironment, each of said plurality of front-loading interfaces provided at various angles around the periphery of the minienvironment with respect to a reference plane, the rotating and translating support assembly comprising: a plurality of plates for receiving and supporting said plurality of front-opening pods, each of said plurality of plates including a plurality of protrusions and each of said plurality of front-opening pod including a plurality of features on their respective bottoms, said plurality of protrusions and said plurality of features for mating and ensuring that each of said plurality of front-opening pods is positioned in a predetermined rotational orientation on each of said plurality plates; a plurality of shafts fixedly mounted to an underside of said plurality of plates; a plurality of rotating means for rotating said plurality of shafts, said plurality of plates and said plurality of front-opening pods; a plurality of translating means, said plurality of rotating means being mounted on said plurality of translating means, said plurality of translating means capable of translating said plurality of rotating means, said plurality of plate and said plurality of front-opening pods; and control means for controlling said plurality of rotating means and said plurality of translating means to rotationally and transnationally align independently each of said plurality of front-opening pods with each of said plurality of front-loading interfaces, respectively. 16. In a minienvironment having a front-loading interface provided at a variable angle with respect to a reference plane, a rotating and translating support assembly for interfacing a front-opening pod with the front-loading interface of the minienvironment, the rotating and translating support assembly comprising: means for rotating said pod; and means for translating the pod in a horizontal plane, said means for translating including a carriage for mounting said means for rotating thereon, said means for translating further including a first lead screw for translating said carriage. 17. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 16, further comprising a plate mounted on a shelf of the front-loading interface for supporting the pod. 18. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 17, wherein said means for rotating is fixedly attached to an underside of said plate, said means for rotating the pod comprising a shaft rotatably supported within a housing, said shaft and said plate rotating with respect to said housing. 19. The rotating and translating support assembly as recited in claim 18, wherein said means for rotating further includes a worm gear mounted on said shaft, said worm gear being driven by a drive gear affixed on a motor. 