In a ball grid array (BGA) station (50) having a robotic arm (60) with a vacuum head (70) containing a predetermined quantity of vacuum apertures (90), a method and apparatus of loading an array of solder balls (14) for solder bumping a carrier (20). Solder balls (14) are supplied into a tub (500) having a head opening (510) for accommodating a vacuum head (70). After the vacuum head (70) is positioned by the robotic arm (60) towards the head opening (510) of the tub (500), suitable fluid pressure (570) is applied to the solder balls (14) within the tub (500) to force the solder balls (14) to float on the gas pressure towards the vacuum apertures (90). The vacuum apertures (90), which are appropriately sized and annularly shaped has at least a partial vacuum (34) applied through the apertures (90) to suck-up a desired quantity of solder balls for eventual placement on the BGA carrier (20).
Claims We claim: 1. A station in a manufacturing line for loading solder balls on a ball grid array carrier, the station comprising: a robotic arm having a vacuum head that includes vacuum apertures for applying at least a partial vacuum through the vacuum apertures to pick-up the solder balls; and a tub having a funnel portion and a channel portion, wherein the funnel portion includes a first port and a second port concentric with the first port, wherein the first port is shaped to accommodate the shape of the vacuum head, and wherein the channel portion includes a third port perpendicular to the second port for channeling a fluid pressure to the second port of the funnel portion. 2. The station of claim 1, wherein the vacuum apertures are annular in shape. 3. The station of claim 2, wherein the diameter of each of the vacuum apertures ranges from around 60% to 90% of the diameter of the solder balls. 4. The station of claim 2, wherein the diameter of each of the vacuum apertures ranges from around 0.203 mm to 0.254 mm for picking up a solder ball having a diameter of around 0.3 mm. 5. The station of claim 1, wherein the fluid pressure is generated by Nitrogen gas. 6. The station of claim 1, wherein the fluid pressure is controlled by a gas controller. 7. The station of claim 1, wherein the fluid pressure is generated by dry air. 8. A station in a manufacturing line for loading an array of solder balls for the accurate placement of solder balls on a ball arid array carrier, the station comprising: a tub having a head opening, a chute, and a blower port inlet; a dispenser for supplying a plurality of solder balls into the chute of the tub; a robotic arm having a vacuum tool for positioning the vacuum tool towards the head opening of the tub; a blower disposed at the blower port inlet of the tub for applying fluid pressure towards the plurality of solder balls to force at least a portion of the plurality of solder balls to float towards the vacuum tool; and a vacuum head located in the vacuum tool, the vacuum head having a predetermined quantity of vacuum apertures for applying at least a partial vacuum through the predetermined quantity of vacuum adertures to pick-up a same predetermined quantity of the plurality of solder balls blown by the blower, wherein the tub comprises, a funnel portion having a first port and a second port, the second port sized smaller than and concentric with the first port, the first port shaped to accommodate the shape of the vacuum head and forming the head opening; and a channel portion having a third port sized smaller than and perpendicular to the second port for receiving the plurality of solder balls supplied through the chute, the channel portion for receiving the blower at the blower port and for channeling the fluid pressure to the second port of the funnel portion. 9. The station of claim 8, wherein the funnel portion and channel portion comprise: a rectangular box-like chamber having four rectangular side walls to provide the first port; a pyramid-like chamber having four triangular side walls converging from the rectangular box-like chamber towards the second port, the second port being circular in shape; and a pipe perpendicularly bent with a curved radius in the shape of an elbow, the circular pipe having a vertically bent pipe portion forming a base for the funnel portion and for connecting to the second port and a horizontally bent pipe portion for forming the channel portion and the blower port inlet. 10. The station of claim 9 further comprising: an annular ring disposed on the vertically bent pipe portion below the second port and above the third port for partially partitioning the pipe from the pyramid-like chamber. 11. The station of claim 9 further comprising: an annular ring disposed on the vertically bent pipe portion below the second port and above the third port for partially partitioning the pipe from the pyramid-like chamber to inhibit spinning gas currents along the vertical walls of the vertically bent pipe portion from interfering with the smooth floating of the plurality of solder balls towards the vacuum tool. 12. The station of claim 1 wherein the tub is made of metal. 13. The station of claim 1 wherein the tub is made of anti-static acryl. 14. The station of claim 1, further comprising: a dispenser for supplying the solder balls into the channel portion; and a blower coupled to the third port for applying the fluid pressure to force at least a portion of the solder balls to float towards the vacuum head. 15. A station in a manufacturing line for loading solder balls on a ball grid array carrier, the station comprising: a robotic arm having a vacuum head that includes vacuum apertures for applying at least a partial vacuum through the vacuum apertures to pick-up the solder balls; and a tub, wherein the tub comprises, a rectangular box-like chamber having four rectangular side walls to provide a first port for accommodating the shape of the vacuum head substantially near the top of the four rectangular side walls; a pyramid-like chamber having a second port and four triangular side walls converging from the rectangular box-like chamber towards the second port, the second port being circular in shape; a vertical pipe portion coupled to the second port for forming a base for a funnel portion, wherein the top of the funnel is formed by the rectangular box-like chamber and the pyramid-like chamber, the second port is sized smaller than and concentric with the first port; and a horizontal pipe portion connected to the vertical pipe portion, the horizontal pipe portion having a blower port inlet for receiving an inflow of gas pressure and for channeling the gas pressure to the second port of the funnel. 16. The station of claim 15, wherein the vertical pipe portion includes a third port or receiving the solder balls into the tub. 17. The station of claim 15, wherein the tub further comprises an annular ring disposed on the vertical portion below the second port for partially partitioning the pipe from the pyramid-like chamber. 