A system for automatically milking animals comprising an area where the animals can move about freely. A milking robot automatically connects teat cups to an animal's teats in a milking compartment having a concentrate station. The entire system, including the concentrate station, is computer controlled. Doors in the milking compartment automatically open for the entry and departure of animals. An automatic cleaning member cleans the animal's teats and an automatic cleaning system automatically cleans the entire milk line system or a selected part thereof. The herd is divided by a computer into milk production groups with a computer defined priority criteria for admitting a specific group of animals into the milking compartment prior to another group. Each robot arm is controlled by three parallelogram structures in series, each being separately controlled by a piston and cylinder unit or an electromotor, the lowermost structures being capable of extending teat carriers under the cows udder, the forward structure, when so extended, being at an angle of roughly 45.degree. and the aft structure being at an angle of roughly 60.degree.. Retractable cables connect each teat cup to a teat cup carrier. Each teat cup is connected from its upper aspect by a cable to a spool mounted on the upper side of the milking compartment, each spool being computer controlled by an electromotor to retain the teat cups in upright positions after their disconnection from the teats when being retracted to the teat carriers.
Claims Having disclosed my invention, what I claim is new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States of America is: 1. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, the apparatus comprising a confined area in which the animals are allowed to move about freely, a milking compartment which can be entered from said area, a milking robot having at least one robot arm provided with a first and a second parallelogram structure, each said structure located in a first plane extending in the longitudinal direction of the milking compartment and a third parallelogram structure located in a second plane which is at an angle with the first plane. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 comprising four of said robot arms wherein two of said robot arms are disposed at each longitudinal side of said milking compartment, each of said two said robot arms disposed on each side of said milking compartment being disposed one behind the other. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said third parallelogram structure of said two robot arms on each side of said milking compartment is at an angle between about 40.degree. and 65.degree. relative to the underlying floor of said milking compartment. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said angle is between about 45.degree. and 60.degree.. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said third parallelogram structure is connected to a teat cup carrier, said teat cup carrier carrying a teat cup at its end. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 5, comprising a flexible retracting member which connects said teat cup to said teat cup carrier, said flexible retracting member being retracted in said teat cup carrier when said teat cup is disconnected from a teat. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 5, comprising transport means connected to the upper part of said teat cup and extending upwardly therefrom to where it is interconnected to a side of said milking compartment, said transport means performing the function of retaining said teat cup in an upright position at all times during the milking operation when said teat cup is not emplaced on the teat of an animal being milked in said milking compartment. 8. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, which comprises a milking compartment, a milking robot having at least one robot arm, said robot arm comprising a teat cup carrier which carries a teat cup at its end, said teat cup being connected to said teat cup carrier by a retracting member which retracts said teat cup to said teat cup carrier when said teat cup is disconnected from a teat of an animal being milked in said milking compartment, and upwardly extending transport means which interconnects an upper aspect of said teat cup with an upper aspect of a side of said milking compartment, said transport means serving the function of maintaining said teat cup in a substantially upright disposition when said teat cup is disconnected from a teat and is retracted to said teat cup carrier by said retracting member, said robot arm comprising in series three parallelogram structures, the arrangement of each of said parallelogram structures being controlled by computer control means. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 8, wherein said transport means comprises fastening means which interconnects it to the upper aspect of the side of said milking compartment, said fastening means includes control means for maintaining said teat cup in a substantially vertical disposition when it is disconnected from an animal's teat and retracted by said retracting member to said teat cup carrier. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 9, wherein said control means is computer controlled. 11. A system for automatically milking animals, which comprises an area in which the animals are permitted to move about freely, a milking compartment, a milking robot at said milking compartment for automatically connecting teat cups to an animal, a concentrate station for feeding an animal in said milking compartment, identification means for identifying an animal at said milking compartment, said identification means associated with a computer program which, on the basis of historical data of an animal at said milking compartment, determines the estimated milk production for such animal and, on the basis of such estimated milk production, determines whether or not such animal will be milked by said robot in said milking compartment, automatically controlled gates on said milking compartment for controlling the entry and exit of animals into and from said milking compartment, an automatic cleaning member for cleaning the teats of an animal in said milking compartment, said milking robot including a robot arm, said teat cups connected to said robot arm by a flexible member when the animal is being milked, said flexible member being retracted in said robot arm when a said teat cup is disconnected from a teat of an animal being milked in said milking compartment, means for determining the quality of milk received by said teat cup and for diverting low quality milk so that it is not mixed with high quality milk from animals milked in said milking compartment, a disinfecting device by means of which the udder of an animal that has been milked can be disinfected automatically after milking, a milk line system for transporting milk from said teat cup to a bulk milk tank and automatic cleaning means for cleaning said milk line system automatically, a time adjusted metering unit for said concentrate station by means of which a predetermined amount of concentrate is fed to an animal while being milked in said milking compartment, said robot arm comprising in series three parallelogram structures, the arrangement of each of said parallelogram structures being controlled by computer control means. 12. A system in accordance with claim 11, further comprising a detector for determining the positions of the teats of an animal to be milked in said milking compartment. 13. A system in accordance with claim 12, comprising a further robot arm independent from said robot arm, said further robot arm carrying and manipulating said detector, said further robot arm comprising manipulation means for manipulating said detector to determine the positions of the teats of an animal to be milked in said milking compartment and for disposing said further robot arm and said detector near one longitudinal side of said milking compartment when said detector is not being used to determine the positions of the teat of an animal to be milked in said milking compartment. 14. A system in accordance with claim 11, wherein said computer control means comprise piston and cylinder units. 15. A system in accordance with claim 11, wherein said computer control means comprise electromotors. 16. A system in accordance with claim 11, comprising teat cup disconnecting means for individually and automatically disconnecting teat cups from the teats of an animal being milked in said milking compartment when the specific udder quarter of a teat to which a said teat cup is connected has been milked out. 17. A system in accordance with claim 11, which further comprises a heat registration unit for measuring the temperature of an animal in said milking compartment. 18. A system in accordance with claim 11, comprising mastitis registration means for detecting mastitis in an animal being milked in said milking compartment. 19. A system in accordance with claim 11, comprising a computer program by means of which the herd to be milked in said milking compartment is divided into milk production groups and on the basis thereof a priority is defined for admitting an animal out of a milk production group into said milking compartment prior to another animal being admitted to said milking compartment out of another milk production group. 20. A system as claimed in claim 11, wherein said first and said second parallelogram structure being located in a first plane extending in the longitudinal direction of said milking compartment, said third parallelogram structure being located in a second plane which is disposed at an angle to said first plane. 