The invention is directed to a clamp for retaining a fluid hose and/or electrical cable on a robot arm assembly. The clamp includes a base adapted to mount to the robot arm assembly and a top. The base and arm cooperate to allow the top to hinge or swing into an open and closed position to retain the welder. A grommet is preferably retained by the opening defined by the arcuate portions of the top and base. The base may be mounted to the robot arm assembly by a spring assembly or otherwise. A spring mount assembly utilizes a compression spring to provide coupling between the clamp and a mounting plate. Threaded studs are received into the ends of the spring which creates axial elongation for a radially inward force to retain the stud.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A clamp assembly for releasably retaining one of a welder, a fluid hose and an electrical cable onto a robot, the clamp assembly comprising: a mount adapted to be secured to the robot assembly, said mount having a first threaded stud; a clamp adapted to releasably retain said one of said welder, said fluid hose and said electrical cable, said clamp having a second threaded stud, said second threaded stud mounted within said clamp, a threaded portion of said second threaded stud extending beyond said clamp; and a spring having a first end and a second end, said first threaded stud received in and contacting said first end, and said extending threaded portion of said second threaded stud received in and contacting said second end. 2. The clamp assembly of claim 1, wherein said spring is a compression spring. 3. The clamp assembly of claim 1, wherein said first threaded stud is a bolt. 4. The clamp assembly of claim 1, wherein said clamp comprises: a base, said base having a first arcuate surface, a first hinge portion on one end of said first arcuate surface, and a first latch portion on another end of said first arcuate surface; a mounting bore in said base and in communication with said first arcuate surface; and an arm, said arm having a second arcuate surface, a second hinge portion on one end of said second arcuate surface, and a second latch portion on another end of said second arcuate surface; said first and second hinge portions defining a pivot allowing said first and second latch portions to abut; said first and second arcuate surfaces defining an opening when said first and second latch portions abut. 5. The clamp assembly of claim 4, wherein said clamp is made from aluminum. 6. The clamp assembly of claim 4, wherein said first hinge portion is defined by a first projection having an axial bore therethrough, and said second hinge portion is defined by second and third projections each having an axial bore therethrough and defining an area therebetween adapted to receive said first projection, and further comprising a pin extending through said axial bores. 7. A clamp assembly for holding a fluid hose or electrical cable onto a robot, the clamp assembly comprising: a mount having a first threaded stud; a clamp having a second threaded stud, said second threaded stud mounted within said clamp, a threaded portion of said second threaded stud extending beyond said clamp; and a spring defined by a plurality of coils each having a coil diameter, said spring having a first end and a second end, said first threaded stud received into and contacting said first end of said spring and configured for axially expanding a first set of coils of said plurality of coils proximate said first threaded stud and for thereby reducing said coil diameter of said coils in said first set of coils and causing radially inward compression of said first set of coils against said first threaded stud; and said extending threaded portion of said second threaded stud received into and contacting said second end of said spring and configured for axially expanding a second set of coils of said plurality of coils proximate said second threaded stud and for thereby reducing said coil diameter of said coils in said second set of coils and causing radially inward compression of said second set of coils against said second threaded stud. 8. The clamp assembly of claim 7, wherein said clamp is made from aluminum. 9. The clamp assembly of claim 7, wherein said spring is a compression spring. 10. The clamp assembly of claim 7, wherein said clamp comprises: a base, said base having a first arcuate surface, a first hinge portion on one end of said first arcuate surface, and a first latch portion on another end of said first arcuate surface; a mounting bore in said base and in communication with said first arcuate surface; and an arm, said arm having a second arcuate surface, a second hinge portion on one end of said second arcuate surface, and a second latch portion on another end of said second arcuate surface; said first and second hinge portions defining a pivot allowing said first and second latch portions to abut; said first and second arcuate surfaces defining an opening when said first and second latch portions abut. 11. The clamp assembly of claim 10, wherein said first hinge portion is defined by a first projection having an axial bore therethrough, and said second hinge portion is defined by second and third projections each having an axial bore therethrough and defining an area therebetween adapted to receive said first projection, and further comprising a pin extending through said axial bores. 12. The clamp assembly of claim 10, wherein said second threaded stud is a bolt that extends through a bore in said base. 13. The clamp assembly of claim 10, further comprising a grommet disposed in said opening. 14. A clamp for releasably retaining a fluid hose or electrical cable onto a robot, the clamp comprising: a base having a top first retaining portion defining a first contact surface and having a bottom surface opposite said first contact surface, a first pivot portion on one end of said first contact surface, and a first latch portion on another end of said first contact surface, said base further including a mounting bore therethrough, said mounting bore extending from said first contact surface to said bottom surface; a threaded stud mounted in said mounting bore, a threaded portion of said threaded stud extending beyond said bottom surface of said base; said threaded stud adapted to be retained on the robot via a mounting assembly; said mounting assembly including a spring; said spring having a first end and a second end; said extended threaded portion being received in and contacting said second end; an arm having a second retaining portion defining a second contact surface, a second pivot portion on one end of said second contact surface, said first and second pivot portions defining a hinge, and a second latch portion adapted to cooperate with said first latch portion to provide a releasable clasp when abutting; said first and second retaining portions defining a containment area when said first and second latch portions abut; and a grommet sized to be retained in said containment area. 15. The clamp of claim 14, wherein said base and said arm are made from 6061 aluminum. 16. The clamp assembly of claim 14, wherein said first pivot portion is defined by a first projection having an axial bore therethrough, and said second pivot portion is defined by second and third projections each having an axial bore therethrough and defining an area therebetween adapted to receive said first projection, and further comprising a pin extending through said axial bores. 17. The clamp of claim 14, wherein said mounting assembly includes a mounting plate and a square wire spring. 18. The clamp of claim 14, wherein said first and second contact surfaces define a circle when said first and second latch portions abut. 