Disclosed are male and female electrical contacts for transferring high electrical power between a master assembly and a tool assembly of a robotic tool changer. The male and female contacts have corresponding outwardly-projecting and inwardly recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surfaces which tend to cause contaminants to slide off the surface of the contacts. The contacts may instead have corresponding outwardly-projecting and inwardly recessed contact surfaces having spherical, frusto-spherical, ellipsoid, frusto-ellipsoid, ovoid, or frusto-ovoid shapes. Each of the contacts includes a contact base for attaching the contact to one of the assemblies of the robotic tool changer and a contact tip removably attached to the contact base, thereby allowing the contact tip to be replaced without detaching the contact base from the robotic tool changer. The contact tip of either or both of the electrical contacts is mounted in such a way as to have compliance in at least one direction. The contact bases have oval or elliptical shaped though-holes for making better contact with the high power cables of the robotic tool changer. The contacts are rhodium-plated to increase their resistance to wear and contamination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high power electrical contact pair for carrying electrical current between two halves of a robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a male electrical contact mounted on one half of the robotic tool changer, said male electrical contact having an outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface, wherein the angle between the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface and a plane perpendicular to the axis of the male electrical contact is between about 30.degree. and about 60.degree.; and b. a female electrical contact mounted on the other half of the robotic tool changer, said female electrical contact having an inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface, wherein the angle between the inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface and a plane perpendicular to the axis of the female electrical contact is approximately the same as the angle between the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the male electrical contact and a plane perpendicular to the axis of the male electrical contact; wherein when the two halves of the robotic tool changer are brought together, the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the male electrical contact mates with the inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the female electrical contact, thereby allowing electrical current to flow between the male electrical contact and the female electrical contact. 2. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 1, wherein the angle between the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the male electrical contact and a plane perpendicular to the axis of the male electrical contact is about 45.degree.. 3. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 1, wherein: a. the robotic tool changer comprises a master assembly attached to a robot and a tool assembly attached to a tool to be used by the robot; b. the male electrical contact is mounted on the tool assembly; and c. the female electrical contact is mounted on the master assembly. 4. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 1, wherein the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the male electrical contact and the inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the female electrical contact are rhodium-plated. 5. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 1, wherein: a. the male electrical contact comprises: i. a male contact tip having the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface, and ii. a male contact base for attaching the male electrical contact to said half of the robotic tool changer; b. the male contact tip is removably attached to the male contact base, thereby allowing the male contact tip to be replaced without detaching the male contact base from said half of the robotic tool changer; c. the female electrical contact comprises: i. a female contact tip having the inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface, and ii. a female contact base for attaching the female electrical contact to said other half of the robotic tool changer; and d. the female contact tip is removably attached to the female contact base, thereby allowing the female contact tip to be replaced without detaching the female contact base from said other half of the robotic tool changer. 6. A high power electrical contact pair for carrying electrical current between two halves of a robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a male electrical contact made out of copper or a copper alloy, said male electrical contact being mounted on one half of the robotic tool changer and comprising: i. an outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface, and ii. a rhodium plating on the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface; and b. a female electrical contact made out of copper or a copper alloy, said female electrical contact being mounted on the other half of the robotic tool changer and comprising: i. an inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface adapted to mate with the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the male electrical contact, thereby allowing electrical current to flow between the male electrical contact and the female electrical contact, and ii. a rhodium plating on the inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface. 7. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 6, wherein: a. the robotic tool changer comprises a master assembly attached to a robot and a tool assembly attached to a tool to be used by the robot; b. the male electrical contact is mounted on the tool assembly; and c. the female electrical contact is mounted on the master assembly. 8. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 6, wherein: a. the male electrical contact further comprises: i. a male contact tip having the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface, and ii. a male contact base for attaching the male electrical contact to said half of the robotic tool changer; b. the male contact tip is removably attached to the male contact base, thereby allowing the male contact tip to be replaced without detaching the male contact base from said half of the robotic tool changer; c. the female electrical contact further comprises: i. a female contact tip having the inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface, and ii. a female contact base for attaching the female electrical contact to said other half of the robotic tool changer; and d. the female contact tip is removably attached to the female contact base, thereby allowing the female contact tip to be replaced without detaching the female contact base from said other half of the robotic tool changer. 9. A high power electrical contact pair for carrying electrical current between two halves of a robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a male electrical contact mounted on one half of the robotic tool changer, said male electrical contact comprising: i. a male contact base for attaching the male electrical contact to said half of the robotic tool changer, and ii. a male contact tip having an outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface, said male contact tip being removably attached to the male contact base, thereby allowing the male contact tip to be replaced without detaching the male contact base from said half of the robotic tool changer; and b. a female electrical contact mounted on the other half of the robotic tool changer, said female electrical contact comprising: i. a female contact base for attaching the female electrical contact to said other half of the robotic tool changer, and ii. a female contact tip having an inwardly-recessed conical or frusto-conical contact surface adapted to mate with the outwardly-projecting conical or frusto-conical contact surface of the male contact tip to thereby allow electrical current to flow between the male electrical contact and the female electrical contact, said female contact tip being removably attached to the female contact base, thereby allowing the female contact tip to be replaced without detaching the female contact base from said other half of the robotic tool changer. 10. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 9, wherein the female contact tip is removably attached to the female contact base in such way as to have compliance in at least one direction. 11. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 10, wherein: a. the female electrical contact further comprises a screw removably attaching the female contact tip to the female contact base, said screw having a shaft; a. the female contact tip has a hole through which the screw passes, said hole having a diameter larger than the diameter of the shaft of the screw, thereby giving the female contact tip compliance in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the screw. 12. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 11, wherein the screw, when fully tightened, does not press the female contact tip firmly against the female contact base, thereby giving the female contact tip rotational compliance. 13. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 9, wherein the male contact tip is removably attached to the male contact base in such way as to have compliance in at least one direction. 14. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 13, wherein: a. the male electrical contact further comprises a screw removably attaching the male contact tip to the male contact base, said screw having a shaft; and a. the male contact tip has a hole through which the screw passes, said hole having a diameter larger than the diameter of the shaft of the screw, thereby giving the male contact tip compliance in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the screw. 15. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 14, wherein the screw, when fully tightened, does not press the male contact tip firmly against the male contact base, thereby giving the male contact tip rotational compliance. 16. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 9, further comprising an electrically-conducting lubricant applied between the male contact tip and the male contact base. 17. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 9, further comprising an electrically-conducting lubricant applied between the female contact tip and the female contact base. 18. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 9, wherein: a. the robotic tool changer includes at least one high power cable; b. the male contact base has a threaded opening and an oval-shaped or elliptical-shaped through-hole intersecting the threaded opening; and c. the male electrical contact further comprises a set screw adapted to screw into the threaded opening to secure the high power cable within the through-hole. 19. A high power electrical contact pair as recited in claim 9, wherein: a. the robotic tool changer includes at least one high power cable; b. the female contact base has a threaded opening and an oval-shaped or elliptical-shaped through-hole intersecting the threaded opening; and c. the female electrical contact further comprises a set screw adapted to screw into the threaded opening to secure the high power cable within the through-hole. 20. A high power electrical contact pair for carrying electrical current between two halves of a robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a male electrical contact mounted on one half of the robotic tool changer, said male electrical contact comprising an outwardly-projecting contact surface having a shape selected from the group consisting of spherical, frusto-spherical, ellipsoid, frusto-ellipsoid, ovoid, and frusto-ovoid shapes; and b. a female electrical contact mounted on the other half of the robotic tool changer, said female electrical contact comprising an inwardly-recessed contact surface adapted to mate with the outwardly-projecting contact surface of the male electrical contact, thereby allowing electrical current to flow between the male electrical contact and the female electrical contact. 