Apparatus for a wireless computer controlled toy system is disclosed, the apparatus including a computer system operative to transmit a first transmission via a first wireless transmitter and at least one toy including a first wireless receiver, the toy receiving the first transmission via the first wireless receiver and operative to carry out at least one action based on said first transmission. A method for controlling the toy system is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data transmitter comprising: first wireless apparatus comprising musical instrument data interface (MIDI) apparatus operative to receive and transmit MIDI data between a first wireless and a first MIDI device; and second wireless apparatus comprising MIDI apparatus operative to receive and transmit MIDI data between a second wireless and a second MIDI device, wherein the first wireless apparatus is operative to transmit MIDI data comprising data received from the first MIDI device to the second wireless apparatus, and to transmit MIDI data comprising data received from the second wireless apparatus to the first MIDI device, and wherein the second wireless apparatus is operative to transmit MIDI data comprising data received from the second MIDI device to the first wireless apparatus, and to transmit MIDI data comprising data received from the first wireless apparatus to the second MIDI device. 2. A data transmitter according to claim 1, and also comprising a plurality of MIDI devices, wherein the second wireless apparatus comprises a plurality of wirelesses each respectively associated with one of the plurality of MIDI devices, and wherein each of the second plurality of wirelesses is operative to transmit MIDI data comprising data received from the associated MIDI device to the first wireless apparatus, and to transmit MIDI data comprising data received from the first wireless apparatus to the associated MIDI device. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first MIDI device comprises a computer. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second MIDI device comprises a toy. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first wireless apparatus also comprises analog interface apparatus operative to receive and transmit analog signals between the first wireless and a first analog device, and wherein the second wireless apparatus also comprises analog interface apparatus operative to receive and transmit analog signals between the second wireless and a second analog device, and wherein the first wireless apparatus is also operative to transmit analog signals comprising signals received from the first analog device to the second wireless apparatus, and to transmit analog signal comprising signals received from the second wireless apparatus to the first analog device, and wherein the second wireless apparatus is also operative to transmit analog signals comprising signals received from the second analog device to the first wireless apparatus, and to transmit analog signals comprising data received from the first wireless apparatus to the second analog device. 6. A computer system comprising: a computer; a sound card operatively attached to the computer and having a MIDI connector and at least one analog connector; and a wireless transceiver operatively connected to the sound card; wherein the computer is operative to transmit digital signals by means of the MIDI connector and to transmit analog signals by means of the at least one analog connector and to receive digital signals by means of the MIDI connector and to receive analog signals by means of the at least one analog connector. 