A uni-directional tilt mechanism for supporting a robotic arm mechanism or other structures includes a simplified system of two motors for tilting a support platform in one dimension. The uni-directional tilt platforms according to the invention may be stacked to provide a universally tiltable stacked platform system for supporting a robotic arm mechanism. The multi-directional tilt stacked platform system can be used to align a Z-axis of a transferred substrate with cassettes or workstations in which substrate is to be placed by the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform comprising: a base; a support platform movable with respect to the base and having a support surface for supporting a robotic arm mechanism; first and second linearly extending members each having an upper end, a lower end, and a longitudinal axis, the first and second linearly extending members being substantially parallel to each other; first and second rotational joints connecting the upper ends of the first and second linearly extending members to the support platform, said first and second rotational joints being mounted so as to be substantially fixed in position relative to the support platform; a first drive mechanism for driving the first linearly extending member at a first speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member; and a second drive mechanism for driving the second linearly extending member at a second speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member. 2. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first motor having a first drive shaft, and the first linearly extending member is connected to a first support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member in response to rotation of the drive shaft. 3. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 2, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second motor having a second drive shaft, and the second linearly extending member is connected to a second support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member in response to rotation of the second drive shaft. 4. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 2, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second drive shaft connected to the first drive shaft of the first motor by a gearing system allowing the second drive shaft to be rotated at a speed different from a speed of the first drive shaft, and the second linearly extending member is connected to a second support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member in response to rotation of the second drive shaft. 5. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first lead screw connected to an output shaft of a first motor and a first support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the first lead screw upon rotation of the first lead screw. 6. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 5, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second lead screw connected to an output shaft of a second motor and a second support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the second lead screw upon rotation of the second lead screw. 7. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the first and second rotational joints are ball and socket joints. 8. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the first and second drive mechanisms comprise first and second motors which move the first and second linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate the support platform about an axis of rotation. 9. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the first and second rotational joints have a preselected amount of play and allow the support platform to tilt while maintaining the substantially parallel relationship of the first and second linearly extending members. 10. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the first and second speeds are substantially similar to provide vertical motion for the support platform with respect to the base. 11. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 1, wherein the second speed is different than the first speed to provide uni-directional tilt motion for the support platform with respect to the base. 12. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 1, further comprising: third and fourth drive mechanisms; and a second uni-directional tiltable platform supporting the support platform, the second uni-directional tiltable platform having a second platform coupled with a third and a fourth linearly extending members, wherein the third and fourth drive mechanisms move the third and fourth linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate said second platform about an axis of rotation. 13. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 12, wherein the second platform is rotatable in a direction which differs from a direction of rotation of said support platform. 14. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 12, further comprising: fifth and sixth drive mechanisms; and a third uni-directional tiltable platform supporting the second platform, the third uni-directional tiltable platform having a third platform coupled with a fifth and a sixth linearly extending members, wherein the fifth and sixth drive mechanisms move the fifth and sixth linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate said third platform about an axis of rotation. 15. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 14, wherein at least one of the second and third platforms of the second and third uni-directional tiltable platforms is rotatable in a direction which differs from a direction of rotation of said support platform. 16. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of uni-directional tiltable platforms supporting the support platform, wherein at least one of the plurality of uni-directional tiltable platforms has a support platform with a direction of rotation which differs from a direction of rotation of the support platform. 17. A uni-directional tiltable platform comprising: a base; a support platform movable with respect to the base and having a support surface; first and second linearly extending generally parallel members each having an upper end, a lower end, and a longitudinal axis; first and second rotational joints connecting the upper ends of the first and second linearly extending members to the support platform; a first drive mechanism for driving the first linearly extending member at a first speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member; a second drive mechanism for driving the second linearly extending member at a second speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member, wherein the second speed is different than the first speed to tilt the support platform in one dimension with respect to the base; and a second uni-directional tiltable platform mounted on the support platform, the second uni-directional platform having a second platform for supporting a robotic arm mechanism, the second platform with a direction of rotation which is substantially perpendicular to a direction of rotation of the support platform. 18. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 17, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first motor having a first drive shaft, and the first linearly extending member is connected to a first support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member in response to rotation of the drive shaft. 19. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 18, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second motor having a second drive shaft, and the second linearly extending member is connected to a second support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member in response to rotation of the second drive shaft. 20. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 18, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second drive shaft connected to the first drive shaft of the first motor by a gearing system allowing the second drive shaft to be rotated at a speed different from a speed of the first drive shaft, and the second linearly extending member is connected to a second support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member in response to rotation of the second drive shaft. 21. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 17, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first lead screw connected to an output shaft of a first motor and a first support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the first lead screw upon rotation of the first lead screw. 22. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 21, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second lead screw connected to an output shaft of a second motor and a second support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the second lead screw upon rotation of the second lead screw. 23. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 17, further comprising: third and fourth drive mechanisms; and a third uni-directional tiltable platform supporting the second platform, the third uni-directional tiltable platform having a third platform coupled with a third and a fourth linearly extending members, wherein the third and fourth drive mechanisms move the third and fourth linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate said third platform about an axis of rotation. 24. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 23, wherein at least one of the second and third platforms of the second and third uni-directional tiltable platforms is rotatable in a direction which differs from a direction of rotation of said support platform. 25. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 17, further comprising a plurality of uni-directional tiltable platforms supporting the second platform, wherein at least one of the plurality of uni-directional tiltable platforms has a support platform with a direction of rotation which differs from a direction of rotation of the second platform. 26. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 17, wherein the first and second rotational joints are ball and socket joints. 27. A uni-directional tiltable platform for supporting a robotic arm mechanism or additional platforms, the platform comprising: a base; a support platform movable with respect to the base and having a support surface for supporting a robotic arm mechanism; first and second linearly extending members supported on a movable first carriage; third and fourth linearly extending members supported on a movable second carriage; a plurality of rotational joints connecting an upper end of each of the linearly extending members to the support platform; a first drive mechanism for moving the first carriage in a first direction; and a second drive mechanism for moving the second carriage in a second direction which is substantially parallel to the first direction, wherein when the first drive mechanism and the second drive mechanism drive the first and second carriages at different speeds the support platform is tilted with respect to the base. 28. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 27, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first motor and a first rotatable lead screw, the first lead screw supporting the first carriage and causing the first carriage to move in a direction substantially parallel to the first lead screw upon rotation of the first lead screw by the first motor. 29. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 28, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second motor and a second rotatable lead screw, the second lead screw supporting the second carriage and causing the second carriage to move in a direction substantially parallel to the second lead screw upon rotation of the second lead screw by the second motor. 30. The uni-directional platform according to claim 27, wherein the plurality of rotational joints are selected from a group consisting of flexible couplings, springs, ball and socket joints, and hinges. 31. The uni-directional platform according to claim 27, wherein each of the linearly extending members is movable in a direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of the linearly extending member and is substantially immovable in directions other then parallel to the longitudinal axis. 32. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 27, further comprising: third and fourth drive mechanisms; and a second uni-directional tiltable platform supporting the support platform, the second uni-directional tiltable platform having a second platform coupled with a third and a fourth linearly extending members, wherein the third and fourth drive mechanisms move the third and fourth linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate said second platform about an axis of rotation. 33. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 32, wherein the second platform is rotatable in a direction which differs from a direction of rotation of said support platform. 34. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 32, further comprising: fifth and sixth drive mechanisms; and a third uni-directional tiltable platform supporting the second platform, the third uni-directional tiltable platform having a third platform coupled with a fifth and sixth linearly extending members, wherein the fifth and sixth drive mechanisms move the fifth and sixth linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate said third platform about an axis of rotation. 35. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 34, wherein at least one of the second and third platforms of the second and third uni-directional tiltable platforms is rotatable in a direction which differs from a direction of rotation of said support platform. 36. The uni-directional, kinematically restrained tiltable platform according to claim 27, further comprising a plurality of uni-directional tiltable platforms supporting the support platform, wherein at least one of the plurality of uni-directional tiltable platforms having a platform with a direction of rotation which differs from a direction of rotation of the support platform. 37. A robot for transporting substrates to and from cassettes and workstations in a semiconductor processing environment, the robot comprising: a base; a robotic arm mechanism adapted to transport the substrates in the semiconductor processing environment; a support platform movable with respect to the base and having a support surface for supporting the robotic arm mechanism; first and second linearly extending members each having an upper end, a lower end, and a longitudinal axis, the first and second linearly extending members being substantially parallel to each other; first and second rotational joints connecting the upper ends of the first and second linearly extending members to the support platform, said rotational joints being mounted so as to be substantially fixed in position relative to the support platform; a first drive mechanism for driving the first linearly extending member at a first speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member; and a second drive mechanism for driving the second linearly extending member at a second speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member. 38. The robot according to claim 37, wherein the first and second speeds are substantially similar to provide vertical motion for the robotic arm mechanism with respect to the base. 39. The robot according to claim 37, wherein the second speed is different than the first speed to provide uni-directional tilt motion for the robotic arm mechanism with respect to the base. 40. The robot according to claim 37, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first motor having a first drive shaft, and the first linearly extending member is connected to a first support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member in response to rotation of the first drive shaft. 41. The robot according to claim 37, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first lead screw connected to an output shaft of a first motor and a first support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the first lead screw upon rotation of the first lead screw. 42. The robot according to claim 37, wherein the first and second rotational joints are ball and socket joints. 43. The robot according to claim 37, wherein the first and second drive mechanisms comprise first and second motors which move the first and second linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate the support platform about an axis of rotation. 44. A uni-directional tiltable platform comprising: a base; a support platform movable with respect to the base and having a support surface; first and second linearly extending members each having an upper end, a lower end, and a longitudinal axis, the first and second linearly extending members being substantially parallel to each other; first and second rotational joints connecting the upper ends of the first and second linearly extending members to the first support platform; a first drive mechanism for driving the first linearly extending member at a first speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member; a second drive mechanism for driving the second linearly extending member at a second speed in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member, wherein the second speed is different than the first speed to tilt the support platform in one dimension with respect to the base; and a second uni-directional tiltable platform mounted on the support platform, the second uni-directional platform having a second platform for supporting a robotic mechanism, the second platform rotatable in a direction which differs from a direction of rotation of the support platform. 45. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 44, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first motor having a first drive shaft, and the first linearly extending member is connected to a first support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the first linearly extending member in response to rotation of the drive shaft. 46. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 45, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second motor having a second drive shaft, and the second linearly extending member is connected to a second support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member in response to rotation of the second drive shaft. 47. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 45, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second drive shaft connected to the first drive shaft of the first motor by a gearing system allowing the second drive shaft to be rotated at a speed different from a speed of the first drive shaft, and the second linearly extending member is connected to a second support member which is movable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the second linearly extending member in response to rotation of the second drive shaft. 48. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 44, wherein the first drive mechanism includes a first lead screw connected to an output shaft of a first motor and a first support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the first lead screw upon rotation of the first lead screw. 49. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 48, wherein the second drive mechanism includes a second lead screw connected to an output shaft of a second motor and a second support member arranged for longitudinal movement along the second lead screw upon rotation of the second lead screw. 50. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 44, wherein the first and second drive mechanisms comprise first and second motors which move the first and second linearly extending members longitudinally to rotate the support platform about an axis of rotation. 51. The uni-directional tiltable platform according to claim 44, wherein the first and second rotational joints are ball and socket joints. 