A hidden storage system is incorporated in the bed of a vehicle without altering the bed's external appearance and the bed is provided with collapsible support beams. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close the fender/side panel of the bed. The collapsible support beams provide a support/safety mechanism if impacted from the side. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage system is incorporated into the bed by either an initial fabrication method or a conversion method using an existing bed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a vehicle bed having side panels, the improvement comprising: a hidden storage system including a storage box mounted in said vehicle bed and accessible only through at least one hinged section of at least one of said side panels; an unexposed lock and latch mechanism for said at least one hinged section; and at least one collapsible support member for said vehicle bed. 2. The vehicle bed of claim 1, additionally including at least one strut having a body member and a movable member operatively connected to said at least one hinged section, said strut including: means operatively connected to said body member and selected from the group consisting of insulating means, heating means, and insulating and heating means. 3. The vehicle bed of claim 1, additionally including another collapsible support member, and wherein each of said collapsible support members comprises beams composed of a center section and two end sections, either of said end sections being adapted to move into said center section thereof upon impact. 4. The vehicle bed of claim 1, additionally including at least another hinged section of said at least one of said side panels, each of said hinged sections being hinged horizontally so as to raise or lower to provide access to said storage box, and said unexposed lock and latch mechanism being operatively connected to each hinged side panel section. 5. The vehicle bed of claim 4, additionally including at least a third hinged section of said at least one of said side panels, said third hinged section being located intermediate said one and said another hinged sections, and constructed to open outwardly. 6. The vehicle bed of claim 1, additionally including two additional hinged sections of said at least one of said side panels, said two additional hinged side panel sections being hinged horizontally so that an unhinged edge of each is adjacent an unhinged edge of said at least one hinged section. 7. The vehicle bed of claim 1, additionally including at least one shelf located in said storage box and at least one drain/air relief valve assembly located in a bottom area of said storage box. 8. The vehicle bed of claim 1, additionally including at least one component located in said storage box and selected from the group consisting of shelves, compartments, adjustable shelves, slideable shelves, and movable shelves. 9. The vehicle bed of claim 1, wherein said vehicle bed is provided with said hidden storage system located on each side of said bed and accessible only through at least one hinged section of each of said side panels, and an unexposed lock and latch mechanism for each hinged side panel section. 10. The vehicle bed of claim 1, wherein said at least one hinged side panel section has a length substantially equal to a length of said at least one side panel, said hinged side panel section being horizontally hinged at an upper edge portion thereof. 11. In a vehicle bed having contoured side panels, the improvement comprising: at least one collapsible support member for said bed, and a hidden storage system in said bed comprising: at least one hinged contoured side panel section of at least one of said contoured side panels, at least one storage box having an interior and having an opening therein located adjacent said at least one hinged contoured side panel section, and a lock/latch mechanism for said at least one hinged contoured side panel section, said hidden storage system being constructed to not substantially alter an external appearance of the contoured side panels of the vehicle bed. 12. The vehicle bed of claim 11, wherein said at least one of said contoured side panels is provided with a plurality of hinged contoured side panel sections, whereby outward movement of any one of said plurality of hinged contoured side panel sections exposes a section of the interior of said at least one storage box. 13. The vehicle bed of claim 12, wherein each of said plurality of hinged contoured side panel sections is hinged horizontally. 14. The vehicle bed of claim 12, wherein each of said contoured side panels is provided with a plurality of said hinged contoured side panel sections, each of said contoured side panels has one said storage box having the interior thereof with the opening therein located adjacent said contoured side panels, and one said lock/latch mechanism for each of said plurality of hinged contoured side panel sections. 15. In a vehicle, a hidden storage/utility bed having at least one hinged side panel, at least one storage box located adjacent said hinged side panel, and a lock/latch mechanism for said hinged side panel, and constructed to not alter an external appearance of a conventional vehicle, the improvement comprising: said at least one hinged side panel including at least one hinged section mounted to open outwardly, and a collapsible support for said hidden storage/utility bed. 16. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 15, wherein said collapsible support comprises a plurality of collapsible beams. 17. The hidden storage/utility bed of claim 16, wherein each of said collapsible beams is constructed of a center section and two end sections, each of said end sections being adapted to move into said center section thereof upon impact thereof. 18. In a vehicle having a hidden storage/utility bed including at least one hinged side panel, at least one storage box having an opening therein located adjacent said hinged side panel, a lock/latch mechanism for said hinged side panel, and constructed to not substantially alter an external appearance thereof when compared to an external appearance of a substantially identical vehicle without said hidden storage/utility bed, the improvement comprising: said at least one hinged side panel including at least one hinged section mounted to open outwardly, and at least one collapsible support beam mounted beneath said bed. 19. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said at least one hinged side panel includes at least two hinged sections. 20. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 19, wherein said two hinged sections are constructed to open in a direction selected from the group consisting of opening upward, opening downward, and one opening upward and one opening downward. 21. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 19 wherein said at least two hinged sections of said at least one side panel are constructed to extend horizontally along a length of said side panel. 22. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 19, wherein said at least two hinged sections of said at least one side panel are constructed to extend vertically with respect to said storage box. 23. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said at least one hinged section of said at least one hinged side panel is provided with at least one strut assembly for retaining said one hinged section in an open position. 24. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 23, wherein said strut assembly is selected from the group of assemblies consisting of insulated, heated, and heated and insulated. 25. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with at least one shelf, and with at least one drain/air relief valve assembly located in a bottom section of said storage box. 26. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with at least one component selected from the group consisting of shelves, compartments, adjustable shelves, slideable shelves, and movable shelves. 27. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said at least one storage box has a length which extends along a length of said at least one hinged side panel. 28. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said at least one hinged side panel includes a plurality of hinged sections, and wherein said at least one storage box has a length which extends along a length of said plurality of hinged sections of said side panel. 29. The vehicle having the hidden storage/utility bed of claim 18, wherein said lock/latch mechanism is hidden and is selected from the group consisting of mechanically activated mechanisms and electrically activated mechanisms. 30. A vehicle bed adapted to be mounted on wheels having conventional fender/side panels, and a hidden storage system which does not substantially alter an external appearance of said fender/side panels, said hidden storage system comprising: at least one storage box having an interior mounted on at least one side of said bed; at least a portion of one of said fender/side panels on said at least one side of said bed being horizontally hinged, whereby said hinged fender/side panel portion can be raised or lowered to expose the interior of said storage box and lowered or raised to cover the interior of said storage box; and a lock and latch mechanism mounted to releasably secure said hinged fender/side panel portion; and said vehicle bed further including collapsible support beams mounted beneath said bed. 31. The vehicle bed of claim 30, wherein said collapsible support beams extend traversely with respect to said at least one storage box and are positioned intermediate said conventional fender/side panels. 32. A vehicle bed adapted to be mounted on wheels, having conventional fender/side panels, and a hidden storage system which does not substantially alter an external appearance of said conventional fender/side panels when compared to conventional panels of a substantially identical bed, said hidden storage system comprising: at least one storage box having an interior mounted on at least one side of said vehicle bed and having an opening adjacent one of said conventional fender/side panels; at least two portions of said one of said conventional fender/side panels on said at least one side of said vehicle bed being horizontally hinged, whereby said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions can be moved outwardly to expose the interior of said storage box and moved inwardly to cover the interior of said storage box; a lock and latch mechanism mounted to releasably secure said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions; and at least one collapsible support member for said vehicle bed. 33. The vehicle bed of claim 32, wherein said vehicle bed further includes a pair of wheel wells, and wherein said at least one storage box covers at least one of said wheel wells and extends forward and rearward therefrom. 34. The vehicle bed of claim 33, wherein said at least one storage box has a height less than a height of said vehicle bed. 35. The vehicle bed of claim 34, wherein said lock and latch mechanism is unexposed to an external view and mounted to said at least one storage box and includes a plurality of latch members adapted to cooperate with latch members secured to said conventional fender/side panel portions. 36. The vehicle bed of claim 35, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with at least one shelf therein. 37. The vehicle bed of claim 36, wherein each side of said vehicle bed is provided with one said storage box having the interior thereof, one said unexposed lock and latch mechanism, and said hinged conventional fender/side panel portions. 38. The vehicle bed of claim 32, wherein said lock and latch mechanism is unexposed to an external view and selected from the group consisting of mechanically activated mechanisms and electrically activated mechanisms. 39. The vehicle bed of claim 38, wherein said lock and latch mechanism includes a lock release mechanism located on said at least one storage box or in a cab of a vehicle on which said vehicle bed is mounted. 40. The vehicle bed of claim 32, additionally including at least one strut assembly operatively connected to retain at least one of said conventional fender/side panel portions in a raised position. 41. The vehicle bed of claim 40, wherein said strut assembly is provided with means selected from the group consisting of insulating means, heating means, and heating and insulating means. 42. The vehicle bed of claim 40, wherein said at least one storage box is provided with a plurality of means for storage therein selected from the group consisting of shelves, adjustable shelves, slideable shelves, and compartments. 43. The vehicle bed of claim 32, wherein said one conventional fender/side panel additionally includes at least another portion thereof which is hinged such that said at least another portion can be lowered or raised to exposed the interior of said storage box. 44. The vehicle bed of claim 43, wherein said one conventional fender/side panel includes at least two additional portions hinged to enable raising each, lowering each, or raising one and lowering the other. 