A method for curing a lens-forming fluid, including exposing the lens-forming fluid to an ultra-violet light, wherein the exposure time is between twenty seconds and thirty minutes, which can completely cure the fluid. The exposure can occur by placing the lens-forming fluid intermediate a plurality of ultraviolet light sources, in which the intensity of the ultra-violet light is at least 1.2.times.10.sup.-2 watts per square centimeter at a wavelength of 350 nanometers. The lens-forming fluid preferably is a monomer. The prior art, in contrast, requires significantly longer exposure times to cure monomer or other lens-forming fluids.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for curing a lens-forming fluid, comprising the steps of: a. placing the lens-forming fluid in a molding cavity from a supply of the lens-forming fluid, the molding cavity being defined by a front mold, a rear mold and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the molding cavity, and wherein the lens-forming fluid from the supply of the lens-forming fluid is placed into the molding cavity through the port; b. terminating fluid communication between the supply of the lens-forming fluid and the port; and c. exposing the lens-forming fluid to an ultra-violet light for a desired time, thereby curing the lens-forming fluid. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired exposure time is between thirty seconds and two minutes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired exposure time is between forty-five seconds and ninety seconds. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the desired exposure time is between twenty seconds and thirty minutes. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the lens-forming fluid is a monomer. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing step occurs by placing the lens-forming fluid intermediate a plurality of ultraviolet light sources. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the intensity of the ultra-violet light is at least 1.2.times.10.sup.-2 watts per square centimeter at a wavelength of 350 nanometers. 8. A method for curing a lens-forming fluid placed, comprising the steps of: a. placing the lens-forming fluid in a molding cavity from a supply of the lens-forming fluid, the molding cavity being defined by a front mold, a rear mold and a gasket, wherein the gasket has a first end and a second end, a body portion joining the first end and the second end and having an outer surface, a bore extending axially through the body portion for receiving the front mold and the rear mold, the bore having a longitudinal axis, and at least one port formed intermediate the outer surface of the body portion and the bore, the port being separated from the ambient air by the outer surface of the body portion and being in fluid communication with the molding cavity, and wherein the lens-forming fluid from the supply of the lens-forming fluid is placed into the molding cavity through the port; b. exposing the lens-forming fluid to an ultra-violet light to cure the lens-forming fluid, wherein the exposure time is between twenty seconds and thirty minutes; and c. subsequent to the exposing step, heating the cured lens-forming fluid to further solidify the cured lens-forming fluid. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the desired exposure time is between thirty seconds and two minutes. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the desired exposure time is between forty-five seconds and ninety seconds. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the heat in the solidifying step is generated by infra-red heat generator. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the lens-forming fluid is a monomer. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the increasing step occurs by placing the lens-forming fluid intermediate a plurality of ultraviolet light sources. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the intensity of the ultra-violet light is at least 1.2.times.10.sup.-2 watts per square centimeter at a wavelength of 350 nanometers. 