Method and apparatus for cleaning semiconductor devices and other workpieces using an aqueous rinse solution which is de-oxygenated by passing the aqueous rinse solution and a carrier gas through an osmotic membrane degasifier. A cleaning chamber is also disclosed for carrying out the cleaning method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: a treatment chamber defining a cavity for receiving the workpiece and a device opening through which said workpiece is passed into and out of the cavity; an osmotic membrane degasifier defining a degasifier cavity, a membrane dividing the degasifier cavity into first and second parts, a aqueous solution inlet and a aqueous solution outlet associated with said first part to direct aqueous solution into contact with one side of the membrane, and a carrier fluid inlet and a carrier fluid outlet associated with said second part to direct carrier fluid into contact with the other side of the membrane; the aqueous solution outlet coupled to the treatment chamber; and acid means for introducing acid into said cavity. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said acid means comprises acid drip means for dripping acid into said cavity. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising at least one cover connected to said treatment chamber to cover said device opening and wherein said acid drip means is carried by said cover. 4. Apparatus for processing a semiconductor device, comprising: a treatment chamber defining a cavity for receiving the semiconductor device with a device opening through which said semiconductor device is passed into and out of the cavity; a plenum coupled to the treatment chamber and defining a mixing chamber including a aqueous solution inlet opening for introducing aqueous solution into the mixing chamber and a nonaqueous solvent opening for introducing a nonaqueous solvent into the mixing chamber; an osmotic membrane degasifier defining a degasifier cavity, a membrane dividing the degasifier cavity into first and second parts, an aqueous solution inlet and a aqueous solution outlet associated with said first part, and a carrier fluid inlet and a carrier fluid outlet associated with said second part, with the aqueous solution outlet coupled to the aqueous solution inlet opening of said plenum; acid means for introducing acid into said cavity. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said acid means comprises acid drip means for dripping acid into said cavity. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising at least one cover connected to said treatment chamber to cover said device opening and wherein said acid drip means is carried by said cover. 