Devices and methods are provided for precise reduction of arrays of microspots. A pulse jetting device is employed having a capillary of micron dimensions, with a portion of the capillary proximal to the jetting orifice circumferentially surrounded by a piezoelectric transducer. By appropriate design of the capillary, orifice and piezoelectric transducer, droplets can be formed on a surface, separated by as little as 80 microns center-to-center, and having at least about a 15 micron spacing at the border. The subject substrate arrays can be used for providing miniaturized arrays of reagents, such as nucleic acids, for detecting the presence of homologous sequences in a sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for creating microsized spots using microsized droplets from jetting dispensers so as to produce an array, said system comprising: a storage station, a maintenance and fill station, a test station and a jetting station; said storage station comprising means for storing different identified samples in individual containers; recording means for recording the identity of the sample in each container; means for relocating said sample containers in accordance with the compositions of said droplets to be dispensed from said storage station to said maintenance and filling station; said maintenance and filling station comprising a plurality of jetting devices selected from the group consisting of piezoelectric dispensers and thermal dispensers, holders for each of said jetting devices, a moving means for moving said jetting devices in said holders to said test station, and means for filling said jetting devices with identified samples; said test station comprising means for monitoring the frequency and stability of droplets dispensed from said jetting devices; means for transporting said jetting device from said test station to said jetting station and positioning said jetting device; means for moving at least one of said jetting device or a substrate in relation to one another; and means connected to each of said stations for monitoring the filling, moving and jetting of said jetting devices. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said jetting devices comprise capillaries and wherein the means for filling includes means for filling the capillaries from the top by capillary action. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said moving means comprises a circular platform for supporting said substrate and a motor for controlling the rotation of said platform. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said moving means comprises servomechanisms for moving said jetting devices in an x-y direction relative to said substrate. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of jetting devices are held together to move as a group relative to said substrate. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein each thermal dispenser comprises: a housing comprising a first constricted opening at one end and a second opening at the other end, a heater channel comprising a nozzle extending through said first opening; a heating element proximal to said nozzle in said heater channel; a sample receptacle in liquid transfer relationship with said second end and extending into said housing, wherein the composition of said sample receptacle and heater channel are selected so that upon contact of said sample with said heater channel, said sample fills said heater channel by capillary action; and means for connecting said heating element to a control system, whereby droplets capable of providing arrays of spots less than 500 microns from center to center with substantially no contamination of one spot with another are obtained. 7. A system according to claim 6, wherein said sample receptacle has a volume ranging from about 0.2 to 20 microliters. 8. A system according to claim 6, wherein said heater channel is hydrophilic and said receptacle is hydrophobic. 9. A system according to claim 1, wherein each piezoelectric dispenser comprises: a housing comprising a first constricted opening at one end and a second opening at the other end; a capillary comprising a dispensing orifice having a diameter in the range of about 10 to 100 microns and a volume capacity in the range of about 1 to 10 microliters and extending a portion of the length of said housing with said dispensing orifice extending through said first opening; proximal to said dispensing orifice, a piezoelectric transducer mounted concentrically on said capillary and affixed to said capillary, wherein the walls of said capillary move with the movement of said transducer; proximal to said second end and extending at least about 40% of the length of said capillary a capillary casing affixed to said capillary, with said casing filling the space between said capillary and the inner wall of said housing; in liquid transfer relationship with said second end and extending into said housing, a sample receptacle, wherein the composition of said receptacle and capillary are selected so that upon contact of said sample with said capillary, said sample fills said capillary by capillary action; and means for connecting said piezoelectric transducer to a control system; whereby droplets capable of providing arrays of spots of less that 500 microns from center to center with substantially no contamination of one spot with another are obtained. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein said capillary has walls of from 0.10 to 0.40 mm in thickness. 11. A system according to claim 9, wherein said sample receptacle has volume ranging from about 5 to 50 microliters. 12. A system according to claim 9, wherein said capillary is hydrophilic and said receptacle is hydrophobic. 13. A system according to claim 12, wherein said capillary is glass and said receptacle is nylon. 14. A system according to claim 9, wherein said device further comprises a lid having a plurality of conduits, each conduit being valved, and means for hermetically sealing said lid to said receptacle. 