A self-aligning end effector is mounted to a robot for transferring a magnetic read/write head from a feeder to an assembly fixture. The robot positions the end effector above the head. A hollow needle extends from the end effector adjacent to the head. A vacuum is applied through the needle to draw the head to the end of the needle and the end effector is lifted away from the feeder. As the robot moves the end effector toward the assembly fixture, a nest with an alignment locator is lowered onto the head. The locator has tapered sides for orienting the head in a precise alignment. An upper surface of the head seats against a flat surface when it is aligned. The vacuum holds the head on the end effector throughout this operation. The nest is then withdrawn from the head so that it is again located on the end of the needle. When the end effector is located above the assembly fixture, the head is released into the assembly fixture by turning off the vacuum.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for attachment to a robot, comprising: a base; an engagement member extending from the base for picking up and retaining a component; an alignment member mounted to the base and having a hole through which the engagement member extends, wherein one of the alignment member and the engagement member is movable relative to the other and the base between a first position to pick up the component and a second position wherein a distal end of the engagement member is located within the hole in the alignment member and is separated from the component by a gap; and compliance means on the alignment member opposite the base for engaging and aligning the component relative to the engagement member when the alignment member and the engagement member are in the second position. 2. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the engagement member is stationary and the alignment member is movable relative to the engagement member and the base. 3. The end effector of claim 1, further comprising a pneumatic cylinder mounted to the base for moving said one of the alignment member and the engagement member. 4. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the compliance means is a substantially rectangular recess for aligning a rectangular component. 5. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the engagement member is an evacuated tube. 6. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the compliance means is a recess with a tapered sidewall and a flat backstop for orienting the component relative to the engagement member, and wherein an upper surface of the component seats against the backstop in the alignment member when it is aligned. 7. An end effector for attachment to a robot, comprising: a base; an engagement member extending from the base for picking up and retaining a component; an alignment member mounted to the base and having a hole through which the engagement member extends, the alignment member being movable relative to the engagement member and the base between a retracted position wherein the engagement member extends beyond a distal end of the alignment member to pick up the component, and an extended position wherein the alignment member extends beyond a distal end of the engagement member and the distal end of the engagement member is located within the hole in the alignment member and separated from the component by a gap; an actuator mounted to the base for moving the alignment member; and a recess in the alignment member at a distal end of the hole for engaging and aligning the component when the alignment member moves to the extended position. 8. The end effector of claim 7 wherein the actuator comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 9. The end effector of claim 7 wherein the recess is substantially rectangular for aligning a rectangular component. 10. The end effector of claim 7 wherein the engagement member is an evacuated tube. 11. The end effector of claim 7 wherein the recess has tapered sidewalls and a flat backstop for orienting the component relative to the engagement member, and wherein an upper surface of the component seats against the backstop in the alignment member when it is aligned. 