A method and apparatus for decomposing a layer of silicon oxide on a silicon wafer is described which employs the application of a heated mist of aqueous HF to the cooled wafer surface. The technique is applied to the analysis of silicon wafers for trace impurities using a scanning fluid drop to collect the residue containing the impurities after the silicon oxide has been decomposed. The novel method offers an order of magnitude increase in the rate of silicon oxide decomposition over the prior art which uses a vapor phase decomposition technique. In addition the novel method provides better control and safer disposition of the corrosive vapors over the prior art. The apparatus comprises a movable dome fitted with a carrier gas supply and a means for injecting a heated aqueous HF mist generated by a specially designed mist generator into the carrier gas flow. The flow mist droplets are drawn from the flow onto the cooled wafer surface providing a thin layer of liquid aqueous HF which reacts with the oxide layer at a faster rate than previously used HF vapor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for rapid decomposition of a silicon oxide layer on a silicon wafer by a controlled application of a mist containing aqueous HF droplets comprising: (a) providing a silicon wafer having a silicon oxide layer; (b) providing an apparatus having: (i) a rotatable table for supporting said silicon wafer; (ii) means for cooling the surface of said silicon wafer; (iii) a cylindrical dome assembly positioned over said table; (iv) means for raising and lowering said dome assembly; (v) means for introducing a heated mist flow into said dome assembly; (vi) means for heating said mist flow; (vii) means for recovery and disposition of exhaust gases; (c) mounting said silicon wafer on said table; (d) lowering said dome assembly over said silicon wafer; (e) rotating said table; (f) cooling the surface of said wafer; (g) heating said mist flow; (h) introducing said heated mist flow containing aqueous HF into said dome assembly and directing said heated mist flow to the surface of said silicon wafer; (l) maintaining said heated mist flow for a specified time period thereby depositing a uniform liquid film of aqueous HF onto said surface of said silicon wafer; (i) maintaining said uniform liquid film by continuing said heated mist flow until the surface of said silicon wafer becomes hydrophobic; (k) halting said heated mist flow; and (l) purging said dome assembly thereby expelling residual HF. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said table fitted with a vacuum chuck. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said means for cooling the surface of said silicon wafer comprises a vortex tube fitted to said dome assembly whereby a flow of nitrogen is cooled by passage through said vortex tube and thereafter passes over and cools the surface of said silicon wafer. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said means for cooling the surface of said silicon wafer comprises means for introducing water mist onto the wafer and means for evaporating the water from the wafer. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the temperature of said heated mist flow is between about 30 and 40.degree. C. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said heated mist flow is deposited on said silicon wafer at a rate of between about 1.5 and 2.5 .mu.l/cm.sup.2 /min. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said means for heating said mist flow in said comprises a discharge tube. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said means for heating said mist flow further comprises directional microwave for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said means for heating said mist flow further comprises a resistance heater for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein said means for heating said mist flow further comprises an rf power source for heating said mist flow in said discharge tube. 