A robot gripper comprising a pair of gripper surfaces with flexible, non-elastic membranes disposed on each gripper surface respectively, these membranes being comprised of cubic cells filled with compressible fluid, so that when each gripper surface makes contact with the object to be lifted, they simultaneously compress and lift the object whereby the friction between the object and the gripper surfaces generates a shear force which distorts the membranes. As the compression and lifting forces are simultaneously increased, the distortion to the membranes will also increase until the pressure inside the cubic cells is large enough to provide sufficient friction force to lift the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot gripper comprising: two gripper surfaces each having a flexible, non-elastic membrane disposed thereon and positioned so that an object to be gripped is located between the gripper surfaces said membrane being formed by cells having walls made of non-elastic, flexible material, said cells being filled with a compressible fluid; and means to move the gripper surfaces simultaneously towards the object to be gripped and in an upward direction relative to the object to be gripped so that the gripper surfaces make contact with the object to be gripped and simultaneously apply compression and lifting forces to the object. 2. The robot gripper as defined in claim 1, wherein said flexible, non-elastic membrane is composed of cubic cells whose walls are made of non-elastic, flexible fabric and are filled with a compressible fluid. 3. The robot gripper as defined in claim 2, wherein a means to monitor said distortion of said flexible, non-elastic membrane disposed on each gripper surface is located on said flexible, non-elastic membrane. 4. The robot gripper as defined in claim 3, wherein said non-elastic, flexible fabric comprises a substrate comprised of woven synthetic nylon fibers, a base coat containing polyurethane adhesion binder and a top coat containing a flame retardant binder. 5. The robot gripper as defined in claim 4, wherein said compressible fluid is a gas. 6. The robot gripper as defined in claim 5, wherein said compressible fluid is air. 7. The robot gripper as defined in claim 6, wherein said means to monitor said distortion of said flexible, non-elastic membrane disposed on each gripper surface is a thin film variable capacitance shear force sensor. 8. The robot gripper as defined in claim 1 wherein the cells of said membrane have front faces for operatively engaging the object to be gripped and rear faces in operative relationship with said means to move the gripper surfaces, and further wherein said means to move said gripper surfaces is adapted to generate a shear force acting between the front and rear faces of said cells which causes a lateral distortion of said front and rear faces with respect to one another, said means to move the gripper surfaces being further adapted to increase said compression and lifting forces until the distortion of said front and rear faces with respect to one another begins to decrease. 