A method and apparatus for sequencing views retrieved from a spherical still image file provide the viewer with the perception of a video performance with a low bandwidth transmission. The method incorporates digital transmission and automatic sequencing of the playback of the view. The apparatus provides video-motion rate images via low bandwidth digital transmissions or small data files from a still image taken of an inanimate environment. The resulting method and apparatus allow the viewer to experience a video display of any environment (for example, real estate locations, malls, museums, and hotels) and view a "video" tour of the location through a low bandwidth transmission.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for sequencing image portions from a still image data file comprising image data representing a still image captured from a single viewpoint and comprising an entire field of view captured from said viewpoint for providing the perception of video comprising: a data transmission means for creating a transmission of at least one said still image data file comprising pixel data representing in combination a plurality of selectable image portions of said still image, said selectable image portions being selectable from said entire field of view captured from said viewpoint, and at least one command sequencing data file for displaying said image portions on at least one computer; a first input for receiving said at least one still image data file and for receiving said at least one command sequencing data file that includes instructions on how to select said image portions from said at least one still image data file; a computer for executing image transform processes for processing said selecting image portions in a continuous sequence responsive to said at least one command sequencing data file, said at least one command sequencing data file providing selected viewing angles to said computer; and an output for outputting said continuous sequence of said selected image portions of said still image. 2. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein said at least one still image data file contains a non-planar image. 3. The device as recited in claim 2 wherein said at least one non-planar image is a spherical optical image. 4. The device as recited in claim 1, said computer having a second input for receiving at least one of user specified selected viewing angle and magnification. 5. The device as recited in claim 4 wherein said continuous s sequence controlled by said at least one command sequencing data file can be interrupted by user input received in said second input and a subsequent sequence of said selected image portions is determined according to user specified viewing angle and magnification. 6. The device as recited in claim 5 wherein said subsequent continuous sequence can be interrupted by user input received in said second input and control is returned to said continuous sequence controlled by said at least one command sequencing data file. 7. The device as recited in claim 5 wherein said second input of said at least one of viewing angle and magnification is selected by one of a mouse, a keyboard, a touch pad, or a joystick for controlling a cursor for navigating said still image data file and a selectable icon for zooming on said still image data file. 8. A method for sequencing image portions from a still image data file comprising image data representing a still image captured from a single viewpoint and comprising an entire field of view captured from said viewpoint, said sequencing method for providing the perception of video comprising the steps of: creating a transmission of at least one said still image data file comprising pixel data representing in combination a plurality of selectable image portions of said still images selectable image portions being selectable from said entire field of view captured from said viewpoint, and at least one command sequencing data file for displaying said image portions on at least one computer; receiving said at least one still image data file and receiving said at least one command sequencing data file, wherein said at least one command sequencing data file includes instructions on how to select said image portions from said at least one still image data file; executing image transform processes for processing said selected image portions in a continuous sequence controlled by said instructions in said at least one command sequencing data file; and outputting said continuous sequence of said selected image portions of said still image. 9. The method as recited in claim 8 wherein said at least one still image data file contains a non-planar image. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 wherein said non-planar image is a spherical optical image. 11. The method as recited in claim 9 further comprising the step of: receiving at least one of user specified selected viewing angle and magnification. 12. The method as recited in claim 11 further comprising the steps of: interrupting said continuous sequencing controlled by said at least one command sequencing data file by user input; and determining a subsequent continuous sequence of user selected image portions according to said at least one user specified viewing angle and magnification. 13. The method as recited in claim 12 further comprising the step of: returning control to said continuous sequence controlled by said at least one command sequencing data file from said subsequent continuous sequence of user selected image portions. 14. The method recited in claim 12 further comprising the step of; selecting said at least one of viewing angle and magnification by one of a mouse, a keyboard, a touch pad, or a joystick for controlling one of cursor for navigating said still image data file or a selectable icon for zooming on said still image data file. 15. The method recited in claim 8, further comprising the steps of: associating other files with said at least one still image data file; and automatically displaying said sequenced image portions and said other files in a continuous sequencing controlled by said command sequencing data file. 16. The method recited in claim 15 wherein said other files comprise at least one of: other command sequencing data files, other spherical image files, other image files, audio files, video files, and program code files. 17. The method recited in claim 8 wherein said command sequencing data file is created using a text editing system. 18. The method recited in claim 17, further comprising the step of referencing other files from said command sequencing data file. 19. The method recited in claim 18 wherein said other files comprise at least one of: other command sequencing data files, other spherical image files, other image files, audio files, video files, and program code files. 20. The method recited in claim 8 wherein said command sequencing data file is created by recording an operator's movements through said at least one still image data file. 21. The method recited in claim 20, further comprising the step of: referencing other files from said command sequencing data file. 22. The method recited in claim 21 wherein said other files comprise at least one of: other command sequencing data files, other spherical image files, other image files, audio files, video files, and program code files. 23. A method for automatically viewing a still image data file to provide the perception of video from batch data files comprising the steps of: receiving a spherical image file comprising said still image data file, said still image data file comprising pixel data representing in combination a plurality of selectable image portions of a spherical image, and a command sequencing data file wherein said command sequencing data file comprises a predetermined continuous sequence of selected image portions from said spherical image file; executing image transform processes for producing continuously sequenced images from said spherical image file in a continuous sequence controlled by said command sequencing data file; and displaying said video sequenced images from said spherical image file on a display device. 24. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable components comprising: (a) a first component for receiving at least one still image data file comprising pixel data representing in combination a plurality of selectable image portions of a still image captured from a single viewpoint and comprising an entire field of view captured from said viewpoint and for receiving at least one command sequencing data file; (b) a processing component for executing image transform processes for processing selected image portions of said still image from said at least one still image data file in a continuous sequence of said selected image portions of said still image controlled by said at least one command sequencing data file; and (c) an output component for outputting said continuous sequence of said selected image portions of said still image. 25. The computer-readable medium having computer-executable components as recited in claim 24 further comprising: a second input component for receiving at least one user specified selected image portion specified by at least one of viewing angle and magnification. 26. The computer-readable medium having computer-executable components as recited in claim 24, wherein said processing component further comprises: a control component to permit the transfer of control between said command sequencing data file and said at least one of user specified selected viewing angle and magnification received in said second input component. 27. The computer-readable medium having computer-executable components as recited in claim 25, wherein said processing component further comprises: a control component to permit the transfer of control between said command sequencing data file and said at least one of user specified selected viewing angle and magnification received in said second input component. 28. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon a data structure comprising: (a) at least one still image data file stored in a first region of a range of memory addresses for storing a spherical optical image; (b) a command sequencing data file stored in a second region of a range of memory addresses for processing selected portions of said at least one still image data file; (c) a control stored in a control region of the range of memory addresses for controlling the processing of said selected portions of said at least one still image data file; and (d) an input stored in an input region of the range of memory addresses, the input storing image display information indicating said selected portions of said at least one still image data file to be displayed, wherein during a predetermined data processing operation on said at least one still image data file, said input is examined to determine whether an user input has been received. 29. The data structure as recited in claim 28, wherein said user input further specifies at least one of viewing angle and magnification. 30. The data structure as recited in claim 28, wherein said input further comprises: returning control of processing to said command sequencing data file when no said user input is stored in said input. 31. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon a data structure as recited in claim 28 wherein said still image data file comprises one spherical image and said command sequencing data file comprises a limited number of sequencing commands comprising a plurality of viewing angles and a plurality of degrees of magnification to output a continuous sequence of image portions of said one spherical image. 