The present invention provides a system for performing a desired operation in a wellbore. The system contains a downhole tool which includes a mobility platform that is electrically operated to move the downhole tool in the wellbore and an end work device to perform the desired work. The downhole tool also includes an imaging device to provide pictures of the downhole environment. The data from the downhole tool is communicated to a surface computer, which controls the operation of the tool and displays pictures of the tool environment. Novel tactile sensors for use as imaging devices are also provided. In an alternative embodiment the downhole tool is composed of a base unit and a detachable work unit. The work unit includes the mobility platform, imaging device and the end work device. The tool is conveyed into the wellbore by a conveying member. The work unit detaches itself from the base unit, travels to the desired location in the wellbore and performs a predefined operation according to programmed instruction stored in the work unit. The work unit returns to the base unit, where it transfers data relating to the operation and can be recharged for further operation.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for performing operations in a well bore in response to predetermined high level commands, said apparatus comprising: (A) a function module for performing an operation through a series of operation tasks; (B) an artificial intelligence based control module connected to said function module that utilizes behavior control concepts by which a control problem is decomposed into a number of task achieving behaviors all running in parallel; and (C) a power module for energizing said function and control modules. 2. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 additionally comprising a sensor module for producing at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter, said control module additionally being connected to said sensor module to respond to the predetermined parameter. 3. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said sensor module includes means for monitoring the operation of said function modules and wherein said control module is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from said monitoring means. 4. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said control module comprises a programmed digital computer having a control memory, an input for receiving signals from said function module and an output for conveying signals representing tasks to said function module. 5. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the well bore is characterized by a wellbore casing and said function module includes transport means for displacing said apparatus along the wellbore casing, said transport means comprising: (i) a supporting structure, (ii) transport means on said supporting structure and responsive to said control module for engaging the wellbore casing selectively to displace and affix said supporting structure along said wellbore casing in response to said control module. 6. Apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said transport means includes actuating mechanisms responsive to said control module that undergo linear displacement relative to said supporting structure. 7. Apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein each said actuating mechanism includes a scissors mechanism responsive to said control module for being displaced between a retracted position and an extended position. 8. Apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein each said actuating mechanism is controlled independently by said control module and said control module operates said actuating mechanisms in a predetermined order to displace said function module within the well bore. 9. Apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said transport means includes actuating mechanisms responsive to said control module that undergo rotary displacement relative to said supporting structure. 10. Apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein each said actuating mechanism includes a scissors mechanism responsive to said control module for being displaced between a retracted position and an extended position. 11. Apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein each said actuating mechanism is controlled independently by said control module and said control module operates said actuating mechanisms in a predetermined order to displace said function module within the well bore. 12. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein certain of said actuating mechanisms engage the wellbore casing to displace said function module within the well bore. 13. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein others of said actuating mechanisms engage the wellbore casing to fix the position of said function module transversely within the well bore. 14. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said function module is to perform a work function at a predetermined location within the well bore, said function module comprising: (i) an end work device responsive to said control module for performing the work function at the predetermined location, and (ii) fixing means responsive to said control module for fixing the position of said function module within the well bore during the operation of said end work device. 15. Apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said end work device is taken from the group consisting of cutting, milling, welding, explosive, testing including temperature, pressure and fluid flow rate testing, well bore formation evaluation, charge-coupled, perforating, workover, chemical injection and testing, and fluid physical property testing devices. 16. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein a tether is located within the well bore and the well bore is characterized by a wellbore casing, said function module comprising: (i) a supporting structure, (ii) fixing means attached to said supporting structure and responsive to said control module for fixing said function module along the well bore by engaging the wellbore casing, and (iii) displacement means responsive to said control module for selectively engaging the tether to produce relative displacement between said function module and the tether. 17. Apparatus as recited in claim 16 wherein fixing means includes: (i) first radial displacement means responsive to said control module with rollers at the ends thereof for retracting and extending said rollers to positions whereby said rollers are, respectively, spaced from and in contact with the wellbore casing, and (ii) second radial displacement means responsive to said control module for retracting and extending to positions whereby the free ends thereof are, respectively, spaced from and in contact with the wellbore casing, said second radial displacement means, when in contact with the well bore casing, preventing displacement of said function module within the well bore. 18. Apparatus for performing operations in a well bore in response to predetermined high level commands, said apparatus comprising: (A) a transport module for moving the apparatus within the well bore through a series of transport tasks; (B) a function module for performing an operation through a series of operation tasks; (C) a control module for using artificial intelligence techniques that utilize behavior control concepts by which a control problem is decomposed into a number of task achieving behaviors all running in parallel thereby to control the operation of at least one of the transport and function modules; and (D) a power module for energizing said transport, function and control modules. 19. Apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein said control module comprises a programmed digital computer having a control memory, an input for receiving signals from at least one of said transport and function modules and an output for conveying signals representing tasks to said transport and function modules. 20. Apparatus as recited in claim 18 additionally comprising a sensor module for producing at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter, said control module additionally being connected to said sensor module to respond to the predetermined parameter. 21. Apparatus as recited in claim 20 wherein said sensor module includes means for monitoring the operation of at least one of said transport and function modules and wherein said control module is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from said monitoring means. 22. Apparatus as recited in claim 21 wherein the well bore is characterized by a wellbore casing, said transport module comprising: (i) a supporting structure, (ii) transport means on said supporting structure and responsive to said control module for engaging the wellbore casing selectively to displace and affix said supporting structure along said wellbore casing in response to said control module. 23. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said transport means includes actuating mechanisms responsive to said control module that undergo linear displacement relative to said supporting structure. 24. Apparatus as recited in claim 23 wherein each said actuating mechanism includes a scissors mechanism responsive to said control module for being displaced between a retracted position and an extended position. 25. Apparatus as recited in claim 24 wherein each said actuating mechanism is controlled independently by said control module and said control module operates said actuating mechanisms in a predetermined order to displace said function module within the well bore. 26. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said transport means includes actuating mechanisms responsive to said control module that undergo rotary displacement relative to said supporting structure. 27. Apparatus as recited in claim 26 wherein each said actuating mechanism includes a scissors mechanism responsive to said control module for being displaced between a retracted position and an extended position. 28. Apparatus as recited in claim 27 wherein each said actuating mechanism is controlled independently by said control module and said control module operates said actuating mechanisms in a predetermined order to displace said function module within the well bore. 29. Apparatus as recited in claim 28 wherein certain of said actuating mechanisms engage the wellbore casing to displace said function module within the well bore. 30. Apparatus as recited in claim 28 wherein others of said actuating mechanisms engage the wellbore casing to fix the position of said function module transversely within the well bore. 31. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said function module is to perform a work function at a predetermined location within the well bore, said function module comprising an end work device responsive to said control module for performing the work function at the predetermined location. 32. Apparatus as recited in claim 31 wherein said function module additionally comprises fixing means responsive to said control module for fixing the position of said function module within the well bore during the operation of said end work device. 33. Apparatus as recited in claim 31 wherein said end work device is taken from the group consisting of cutting, milling, welding, explosive, testing including temperature, pressure and fluid flow rate testing, well bore formation evaluation, charge-coupled, perforating, workover, chemical injection and testing, and fluid physical property testing devices. 34. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said transport module attaches to a tether located within the well bore and the well bore is characterized by a wellbore casing, said apparatus additionally comprising a tether management module comprising: (i) a supporting structure, (ii) a second artificial intelligence based control module, (iii) fixing means attached to said supporting structure and responsive to said second control module for fixing said function module along the well bore by engaging the wellbore casing, and (iv) displacement means responsive to said second control module for selectively engaging the tether to produce relative displacement between said function module and the tether. 35. Apparatus as recited in claim 34 wherein fixing means includes: (i) first radial displacement means responsive to said second control module with rollers at the ends thereof for retracting and extending said rollers to positions whereby said rollers are, respectively, spaced from and in contact with the wellbore casing, and (ii) second radial displacement means responsive to said second control module for retracting and extending to positions whereby the free ends thereof are, respectively, spaced from and in contact with the wellbore casing, said second radial displacement means, when in contact with the well bore casing, preventing displacement of said function module within the well bore. 36. Apparatus as recited in claim 35 wherein said tether management system additionally comprises means for measuring the tension of the tether. 