A method for calibrating the center point of a tool attached to a robot face plate or other machine uses a calibration block having vertical and horizontal faces. The position of the tool center point is determined by moving the tool from a starting position to touch one of the faces, recording the location of the face plate and returning the tool to the starting point. This is repeated for the other surfaces. Then the tool center point can be calculated from the recorded locations. Also disclosed is a calibration block having a centering area with four walls arranged to form a parallelogram and a leveling area with four walls arranged to form an x, y coordinate axis.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for tool calibration for a tool having a center point and attached to a face plate of a robot arm which robot arm can be positioned within a robot envelope wherein locations of the face plate within the robot envelope are known whenever the face plate is moved from one position to another, the method comprising: a. placing a calibration block having three intersecting planar faces within the robot envelope, the calibration block having a top face wherein the first planar face is parallel to the top face and the second and third planar faces intersect the top face; b. positioning the tool's center point in close proximity to the calibration block so that the tool can be moved to contact the planar faces of the calibration block; c. moving the tool's center point into contact with the second face from the position of step b the movement being along a line perpendicular to the second face; d. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the second face and storing a corresponding location of the face plate; e. moving the tool's center point back to the position of step b; f. moving the tool's center point into contact with the third face, the movement being along a line perpendicular to the third face; g. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the third face and storing a corresponding location of the face plate; h. moving the tool's center point back to the position of step b; i. raising the tool's center point above the top face of the calibration block; j. bringing the tool's center point to a contact point so that the tool is in electrical contact with the top face of the calibration block by moving the tool along a line that places the contact point, a short distance from a comer point defined by the intersection of the second and third faces; k. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the top face of the calibration block and storing a corresponding location of the face plate; and l. calculating coordinates of the tool's center point relative to the face plate from the stored locations of the face plate. 2. The method of claim 1 also comprising repeating steps b through k for a different extension of the tool along its axis before calculating the tool's center point. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the tool has a contact point of known diameter and the extension is at least ten times the diameter of the tool's contact point. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the tool is an arc welding torch. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the tool center point is a point in space that is a distance from the tool which distance can be determined. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the tool is a cutting tool that creates a flame or plasma and the tool center point is within the flame or plasma. 7. A method for tool calibration for a tool having a rim and a center point, the tool attached to a face plate of a robot arm which robot arm can be positioned within a robot envelope wherein locations of the face plate within the robot envelope are known whenever the face plate is moved from one position to another, the method comprising: a. placing a calibration block having two pairs of oppositely disposed walls which define an enclosed free space within the robot envelope, the walls each having a top edge and the top edges of the four walls being within a common plane and the calibration block having an area comprised of four fins arranged along lines of a cross-hair but separated by a fin free space between their facing edges; b. placing the tool so that the tool's center point is within the fin free space in a location that is below a plane passing through the top edges of the bounding walls; so that the tool can be moved to contact the walls of the calibration block; c. moving the tool into contact with the first wall from the position of step b; d. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the first wall of one pair of walls and storing a corresponding location of the face plate; e. moving the tool back to the position of step b; f. moving the tool into contact with the wall opposite the first wall; g. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the wall opposite the first wall and storing a corresponding location of the face plate; h. calculating an average position between the two walls that have been contacted and moving the tool's center point back to that position; i. repeating steps c through h for the other pair of walls; of the second and third faces; j. moving the tool's center point over the area composed of four fins arranged along the lines of a cross-hair but separated by a free space between their facing edges and placing the tool so that its center point is below the top edges of the fins; k. moving the tool toward the edge of the first fin until light contact is made; l. raising the tool a fixed distance and moving the tool further a fixed distance in a same direction that brought the tool into contact with the edge of the fin; m. moving the tool down until contact is made between the tool's rim and the top edge of the fin; n. stopping the motion and storing a corresponding location of the robot's face plate at the position of contact; o. reversing the motions of steps k through n; p. repeating steps k through o for the other three fins; q. calculating two rotations about the directions of the cross-hair arrangement of the fins, applying those rotations to the tool thus leveling it; r. moving the tool to the original center position between the fins, raising the tool up above the level of the top edges of the fins by an amount equal to desired tool stick-out and performing a tool center point calculation using a present location of the face plate and a known location of the leveling area. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the tool is an arc welding torch. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the tool center point is a point in space that is a distance from the tool which distance can be determined. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the tool is a cutting tool that creates a flame or plasma and the tool center point is within the flame or plasma. 11. A method for tool calibration for a tool having a center point and attached to a machine to which tooling can be attached to a tool attachment location on the machine, the tool attachment location able to be positioned within an envelope wherein locations of the machine determines paths of motion of the tool attachment location within the envelope, the method comprising: a. placing a calibration block having three intersecting planar faces within the envelope, the calibration block having a top face wherein the first planar face is parallel to the top face and the second and third planar faces intersect the top face; b. positioning the tool's center point in close proximity to the calibration block so that the tool can be moved to contact the planar faces of the calibration block; c. moving the tool's center point into contact with the second face from the position of step b the movement being along a line perpendicular to the second face; d. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the second face and storing a corresponding location of the tool attachment location; e. moving the tool's center point back to the position of step b; f. moving the tool's center point into contact with the third face, the movement being along a line perpendicular to the third face; g. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the third face and storing a corresponding location of the tool attachment location; h. moving the tool's center point back to the position of step b; i. raising the tool's center point above the top face of the calibration block; j. bringing the tool's center point to a contact point so that the tool is in electrical contact with the top face of the calibration block by moving the tool along a line that places the contact point, a short distance from a comer point defined by the intersection of the second and third faces; k. stopping the motion of the tool upon contact with the top face of the calibration block and storing a corresponding location of the tool attachment location; and l. calculating coordinates of the tool's center point relative to the tool attachment location from the stored locations. 12. The method of claim 11 also comprising repeating steps b through k for a different extension of the tool along its axis before calculating the tool's center point. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the tool has a contact point of known diameter and the extension is at least ten times the diameter of the tool's contact point. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the tool is an arc welding torch. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the tool center point is a point in space that is a distance from the tool which distance can be determined. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the tool is a cutting tool that creates a flame or plasma and the tool center point is within the flame or plasma. 17. A calibration block for determining a tool center point location relative to a robot face plate or tool attachment location comprising: a. a planar base having a top surface a portion of which is a centering area and a second portion of which is a leveling area; b. four walls attached to the centering area of the top surface so as to define a parallelogram having an open space within the walls; and c. four fins attached to the leveling area of the top surface, the fins positioned so as to define an x, y coordinate axis with four quadrants and spaced apart from one another so as to define an open area which encompasses a portion of each quadrant. 