The present invention provides for a semiconductor workpiece processing tool. The semiconductor workpiece processing tool includes an interface section comprising at least one interface module and a processing section comprising a plurality of processing modules for processing the semiconductor workpieces. The semiconductor workpiece processing tool has a conveyor for transferring the semiconductor workpieces between the interface modules and the processing modules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece processing tool, comprising: a plurality of workpiece processing modules for processing a workpiece; each of said workpiece processing modules being interchangeable; a workpiece conveyor disposed between said workpiece processing modules and having at least two workpiece transport units, said workpiece processing modules being positioned adjacent opposing sides of said workpiece conveyor; said workpiece conveyor including a first transport unit guide having at least one motion actuator for controllably moving one of said at least two workpiece transport units therealong and a second transport unit guide having at least one motion actuator for controllably moving the other of said at least two workpiece transport units therealong; said at least two workpiece transport units including a first workpiece transport unit coupled with the first transport unit guide and a second workpiece transport unit coupled with the second transport unit guide; said at least two workpiece transport units each configured to support a single workpiece and access each of said workpiece processing modules for transferring workpieces therebetween. 2. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 wherein said at least one motion actuator comprises at least one portion of a linear magnetic motor. 3. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 wherein each of said first and second workpiece transport units includes a magnet coupled for operation with said at least one motion actuator. 4. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 wherein each of said first and second workpiece transport units includes: a tram; a workpiece transfer arm movably connected to said tram and having a workpiece support mounted at a distal end thereof for holding a workpiece; a transfer arm elevator intermediate said tram and said workpiece transfer arm for adjusting the vertical position of said workpiece transfer arm. 5. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 wherein each of said first and second workpiece transport units includes a position indicator for determining the position of the respective one of said of said first and second workpiece transport units relative to a respective one of said workpiece processing modules. 6. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 further comprising at least one workpiece interface module adjacent said workpiece conveyor for supporting a workpiece cassette having a plurality of workpieces therein; said workpiece interface configured to present said workpiece cassette in an extraction position which permits at least one of said two workpiece transport units to access the workpieces. 7. The workpiece processing tool of claim 6 wherein each said at least one workpiece interface includes: a workpiece cassette turnstile for moving a workpiece cassette between a load position and a transfer position; a workpiece cassette elevator adjacent said workpiece cassette turnstile and configured to transfer workpiece cassettes therebetween and provide the workpiece cassette in the extraction position. 8. The workpiece processing tool of claim 6 further comprising a process load door adjacent said at least one workpiece interface module and configured to permit workpiece cassettes to pass therethrough. 9. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 further comprising: a first workpiece interface module for receiving unprocessed workpieces; a second workpiece interface module for receiving processed workpieces. 10. The workpiece processing tool of claim 9 wherein each of said first and second workpiece transport units may access said first workpiece interface module and said second workpiece interface module. 11. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 further comprising an air supply intermediate opposing ones of said workpiece processing modules for supplying clean air to said workpiece processing tool. 12. The workpiece processing tool of claim 11 further comprising at least one exhaust duct adjacent said transport unit guide for removing the air. 13. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 wherein each of said first and second workpiece transport units supports an individual workpiece. 14. The workpiece processing tool of claim 1 wherein each of said workpiece processing modules includes a workpiece holder configured to receive a workpiece from each of said first and second transport units. 