A multicell holder e.g. a honeycomb or plate, or a collection of individual support particles, is treated with solutions/suspensions of catalyst ingredients to produce cells, spots or pellets holding each of a variety of combinations of the ingredients, is dried, calcined or treated as necessary to stabilize the ingredients in the cells, spots or pellets, then is contacted with a potentially reactive feed stream or batch e.g., biochemical, gas oil, hydrogen plus oxygen, propylene plus oxygen, CC12F2 and hydrogen, etc. The reaction occurring in each cell can be measured, e.g. by infrared thermography, spectroscopic detection of products or residual reactants, or by sampling, e.g. by multistreaming through low volume tubing, from the vicinity of each combination, followed by analysis e.g. spectral analysis, chromatography etc, or by observing temperature change in the vicinity of the catalyst e.g. by thermographic techniques, to determine the relative efficacy of the catalysts in each combination. Robotic techniques can be employed in producing the cells, spots, pellets, etc.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of simultaneously testing a plurality of catalyst formulations to determine comparative catalytic activity of the formulations in the presence of a given reactant or reactant mixture comprising: a) supporting said plurality of catalyst formulations on at least one support b) fixing said formulations on said at least one support by optionally stabilizing said formulations; c) contacting said formulations with a common stream of the reactant or reactant mixture under reaction conditions in a common reactor chamber; and d) detecting comparative catalytic activity occurring at each of said formulations during said contacting step through substantially simultaneously sensing radiation emitted, absorbed, or altered by the respective formulations, reactants or products indicative of catalyst activity using a detector separated from the formulation, reactants and products. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the formulations are arranged in the form of an array of spots on the surface of the at least one support. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the array comprises wells in the at least one support holding the formulations. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the formulations are supported in channels extending across the entire extent of the at least one support. 5. A method according to claim 1 additionally comprising contacting the catalyst formulations in the form of spots or layers on the surface of at least one support containing a washcoat supported by an underlayer. 6. A method of claim 1 wherein said formulations comprise a material selected from the group consisting of transition metals, platinum, iron, rhodium, manganese, metallocenes, zinc, copper, potassium chloride, calcium, molybdenum, silver, tungsten, cobalt and mixtures of the foregoing. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the catalyst formulation comprises an enzyme. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one support comprises silicon, chromium, zirconium or carbon. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one support comprises a form of carbon, zeolite and/or plastic. 10. The method of claim 1 in which the respective catalyst formulations can be identified by their position in an arrangement of different catalyst formulations on the at least one support and/or by analysis of a unique label physically associated with each catalyst formulation. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the individual catalyst formulations are each associated with an identifying label. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein the label comprises different isotopes or different mixtures of isotopes. 13. A method according to claim 1 wherein the labels comprise chemicals which are stable at reaction conditions or are radioactive with distinctive emissions. 14. A method according to claim 1 wherein taggants are added to identify particular catalyst formulations, and wherein particles are employed as supports for the catalyst formulations. 15. The method of claim 1 comprising a supporting or stabilizing treatment selected from the group consisting of: a) contacting of a porous support with a solution of a salt of a metal and b) contacting with hydrogen. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said stabilizing step comprises exposing certain catalyst formulations to different temperatures, calcining, steaming, drying, ion exchange or precipitation. 17. The method of claim 1 in which step (a) or (b) comprises contacting the catalyst formulation with compounds which modify the distribution of a metal within a porous support. 18. A method according to claim 1 wherein the stabilizing step comprises treatment with a reducing agent. 19. A method according to claim 1 wherein the supporting step comprises calcining, steaming, drying, reaction, ion exchange and/or precipitation. 20. A method according to claim 1 wherein during the stabilizing step at least some of the catalyst formulations are exposed to different temperatures. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein said sensing comprises the optical detection of temperature changes due to reaction including a correction for emissivity variations associated with differences in chemical composition. 22. A method of claim 1 comprising sensing of heat liberated or absorbed by optical detection of temperature changes in the vicinity of a respective catalyst formulations due to reaction endotherm or exotherm. 23. A method according to claim 1 comprising detection of temperature changes in the vicinity of a respective formulation due to reaction endotherm or exotherm. 24. A method according to claim 1 additionally comprising observing the TR emissions of product gases directly, using the radiation hot gases emit at characteristic wavelengths. 25. A method according to claim 1 wherein said detecting step comprises measuring the angle of rotation of polarized light. 26. A method according to claim 1 comprising detecting infrared radiation through the use of nondispersive infrared spectroscopy, or infrared-sensitive photographic film. 27. The method of claim 1 further comprising adding an additional reagent to products leaving each catalyst formulation to react with said reactant or said reaction product to form a product detectable by emitted or absorbed radiation. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the emitted radiation is produced through a chemiluminescence reaction. 29. A method according to claim 1 additionally comprising carrying out the contacting step in the presence of compounds which modify the distribution of the metal within the porous support. 30. A method according to claim 1 wherein the reactional conditions comprise a pressure greater than one bar absolute pressure and/or the contact is at a temperature greater than 100 degrees centigrade. 31. A method according to claim 1 wherein a header of multiple delivery tubes provide uniform flow distribution of said reactant or reactant mixture. 32. The method of claim 1 further comprising processing data from said detecting step at multiple wavelengths by mathematical manipulation. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein said mathematical manipulation comprises transformation, weighted summation and/or subtraction. 34. The method of claim 1 comprising exposing the catalyst formulations to a deleterious agent which reduces the activity of at least one catalyst formulations by at least 10%. 35. The method of claim 1 comprising simulating aging, by exposing the formulations to a deleterious agent which reduces the activity of at least one catalyst formulation by at least 10%, or to other different substances or conditions which increases the activity of at least one of the catalyst formulations by at least 10% over its previously-reduced activity whereby regenerability, reactivatability, decoking, or other catalyst property is measured. 36. The method of claim 1 further comprising measuring stability by exposing the catalyst formulations to substances or conditions which reduce the activity of at least one catalyst formulation by at least 10% and thereafter measuring activity. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein said agent comprises a metal. 38. A method according to claim 1 additionally comprising simulating aging, by exposing the catalyst formulations to a deleterious agent which reduces the activity of at least one formulation by at least 10%, and then optionally exposing the catalyst formulations to at least one substance or condition which increases the activity of at least one formulation by at least 10% over its previously-reduced activity whereby regenerability, reactivatability, decoking, or other catalyst property is detected. 39. A method according to claim 38 wherein the deleterious agent is selected from the group consisting of elevated temperature, V, Pb, Ni, As, Sb, Sn, Hg, Fe, S, H2S, chlorine, oxygen, Cl, and carbon monoxide. 40. A method according to claim 38 wherein the at least one substance or condition which increases the activity of at least one formulation is selected from the group consisting of steam, heat, H.sub.2, air, and liquid water. 41. A method according to claim 1 additionally comprising testing for selectivity after deliberately poisoning some formulations. 42. A catalyst testing apparatus comprising a common reactor having disposed therein a catalyst support means; a plurality of different catalyst formulations fixed to said catalyst support means; means for contracting the catalyst formulations in the common reactor with a common stream of reactant or reactant mixture under reaction conditions, and a detector separated from the formulation, reactants and products for detecting comparative catalytic activity occurring at each of the formulations through substantially simultaneously sensing; a radiation emitted, absorbed, or altered by the the respective formulations, reactants or products indicative of catalyst activity. 43. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said catalyst support means includes an array of wells for holding catalyst formulations. 44. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein the formulations comprise a material selected from the group consisting of transition metals, platinum, iron, rhodium maganese, metallocenes, zinc, copper, potassium chloride, calcium, molybdenum, silver, tungsten, cobalt and mixtures of the foregoing. 45. Apparatus according to claim 42 further comprising means for providing a different temperature in different catalyst formulations. 46. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein the detector further comprises an optical filter. 47. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said detector further comprises means for scanning or imaging said plurality of catalyst formulations. 48. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said detector means further comprises means for identifying each of said plurality of catalyst formulations by assigning its respective portion of an electronic image. 49. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein the detector is at least one detector selected from the group consisting of an infrared radiation-sensitive camera, a scanning diode detector, a Raman detector, an FTIR detector, an NMR detector, a light emission spectroscope a gamma camera, a neutron activation detector, a refractive index detector, and a detector for sensing an angle of rotation of polarized light. 50. Apparatus according to claim 42 further comprising means to add an additional reagent to products leaving each catalyst formulation for reacting with said reactant or said reaction product to form a product detectable by emitted or absorbed radiation. 51. Apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said support means is arranged for uniform flow distribution of said reaction products. 52. Apparatus according to claim 42 includes means for employing a correction for emissivity variations associated with differences in chemical composition. 