A work piece holding mechanism which provides multi position part holding capability to automatically sequentially hold and present a work pieces in multiple orientations for work thereon. The work piece holding mechanism includes two rotatable clamp means for clamping the work piece therebetween. Rotation of at least one of the rotary clamps is driven by a rotary drive mechanism, preferably a rotary air cylinder. The rotary air cylinder is provided with at least one fixed rotational stop. In addition, the rotary air cylinder may be provided with one or more actuatable intermediate stops. Rotation of the work piece can be accomplished by driving the rotary air cylinder to a predetermined position against either a fixed stop or an actuatable stop. Each of such stop positions results in a different orientation of the work piece and thus a different work plane on which the robot can operate. Loading of the work piece into the holding mechanism can be performed automatically by the robot with the robot controller also commanding the opposing clamps of the work holder to engage the work piece. Similarly, removal of the work piece from the holding mechanism can be automatically performed with the robot and robot controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multiple position work piece holding device comprising: (a) a frame having a work opening therein; (b) a rotary drive mechanism supported from said frame adjacent a first side of said work opening; (c) a first work piece support affixed to a shaft extending from said rotary drive mechanism; (d) an air cylinder supported on said frame on a second side of said work opening opposite said first side, said an cylinder including a piston, said air cylinder being actuatable to drive said piston toward and away from said first work piece support; (e) a second work piece support affixed to said piston, said first and second work piece supports forming a clamp for holding a work piece therebetween; (f) control means for controlling rotation of said rotary drive mechanism; and (g) at least two stops for automatically stopping rotation of said rotary drive mechanism to automatically present at least two different orientations of the work piece for work thereon. 2. A multiple position work piece holding device comprising: (a) a rotary drive including a rotatable shaft; (b) a first work piece support affixed to said rotatable shaft; (c) a clamping piston positioned opposite said first work piece support; (d) a second work piece support affixed to said piston, said first and second work piece supports forming a clamp for holding a work piece therebetween, said clamping piston being actuatable to drive said piston toward and away from said first work piece support; (e) control means for controlling rotation of said rotary drive mechanism; and (f) at least two stops for automatically stopping rotation of said rotary drive mechanism to automatically present at least two different orientations of the work piece for work thereon. 3. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2 further comprising: (a) at least one reference surface on in said first work piece support adapted to receive one side of a predetermined work piece; and (b) at least one reference surface on said second work piece support adapted to receive an opposite side of the predetermined work piece. 4. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2 wherein: said at least two stops each position a work piece to present a different surface of the work piece at a generally identical work plane for work thereon by a robotic arm. 5. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2 wherein: there are at least three stops for automatically stopping rotation of said rotary drive mechanism to automatically present at least three different orientations of the work piece for work thereon, each of the at least three orientations presenting a different surface of the work piece at a generally identical work plane for work thereon by a robotic arm. 6. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2 wherein: said rotary drive is a rotary air cylinder. 7. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2 wherein: said rotary drive is a stepper motor. 8. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2 wherein: said rotary drive is a servomotor. 9. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2, said at least two stops comprising: (a) a pin extending from said rotatable shaft; and (b) at least two chocks limiting rotation of said rotatable shaft by interfering with said pin. 10. A multiple position work piece holding device as recited in claim 2, said at least two stops comprising: (a) a pin extending from said rotatable shaft; (b) a first chock limiting rotation of said rotatable shaft in a clockwise direction by interfering with said pin; and (c) a second chock limiting rotation of said rotatable shaft in a counterclockwise direction by interfering with said pin. 