A system and method for delivering cost-reduced, low latency, wider variety video-on-demand for digitized motion pictures. Leader files stored in disk array are accessible quickly for viewing in response to the user's selection, thereby providing low latency time from the initial request to the viewing of the leader. The remainder of the digitized movie files are stored in a robotic tape library archive system having greater access time than disk array storage but at significantly reduced storage cost. During the viewing of the leader from the rapidly accessible disk array, the remainder of a selection is accessed at a slower rate on tape and transferred to disk for viewing seamlessly at conclusion of the leader. The hybrid rapidly accessible disk storage of leader and cost effective bulk storage on tape of the remainder of selections provides both low latency and significant storage cost reduction, thereby increasing the number of video selections which may be offered.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for use in a computer system to serve a file having a leader and a remainder in response to a request, comprising: prestoring said leader prior to said request in a first playback system; playing back said prestored leader in response to said request; queuing said remainder in response to and during said playing of said leader in response to a command; transferring said queued remainder to said first playback system from a second playback system having a latency greater than said first play system; and playing back said queued remainder in response to said playing back of said leader. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said first playback subsystem is a digital disk array. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said second playback subsystem is selected from a group comprising: a magnetic tape archive, an optical disk archive, a digital video disk archive, or a DLT archive. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said second playback subsystem is said magnetic tape archive. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said file is a video file. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said file is an audio file. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said playing back of said queued remainder commences contiguously at completion of said playing back said leader. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said playing back said leader is at a first rate; said transferring said remainder comprises: reading said remainder from said second playback system; and transmitting said read remainder to said first playback system at a second rate faster than first rate; and wherein said playing back said queued remainder is from said first playback system at said first rate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said leader and said remainder are stored as one file prior to said playing back said leader. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said leader and said remainder are stored as separate files prior to said playing back of said leader. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said method further includes: generating a playlist correlating a plurality of said leaders and corresponding ones of said remainders. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said queuing said remainder includes: searching said playlist for an entry corresponding to said leader; and queuing said remainder from a said corresponding ones of said remainders listed in said playlist in response to said searching. 13. The method of claim 12 including: determining a delay time corresponding to said second latency and functionally related to when a request for said remainder can be serviced from said second playback system; determining a playtime for said leader; and comparing said delay time and said play time. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said delay time includes: a time to mount a tape cartridge of said second playback subsystem containing said remainder and locate said remainder on said cartridge. 15. The method of claim 13 including: in response to said comparing indicating said delay time is greater than said play time, generating a notice that said file cannot be viewed; calculating an estimated time when said file can be viewed; and generating a notice of said estimated time. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein said play time comprises the time for said playing back of said leader at a preselected bit rate. 17. The method of claim 13 including: in response to said comparing indicating said delay time is substantially equal to or less than said play time, commencing said playing back of said leader. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein, in response to said comparing indicating said delay time is substantially equal to or less than said play time, said method further includes the step of: queuing said remainder in response to said comparing. 19. The method claim 18 including: adding said remainder to said leader in response to said searching said playlist. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein said leader is stored on a disk; said queuing said remainder includes storing said remainder on said disk; and said method includes removing said remainder from said disk after said playing back said queued remainder. 21. A method for serving a file having a leader and remainder in a digital computer system comprising: estimating said leader; importing said file into said system as a leader file and remainder file, said remainder file being imported to a second storage having a second latency, and said leader file being imported to a first storage having a first latency less than said second latency; receiving a request to retrieve said file; determining that said file is stored on said first and said second storage; generating a reservation request to said second storage for said remainder file; determining a play time and delay time; comparing said play time and delay time; and in response to said comparing, playing said leader if said delay time is substantially equal to or less than said play time; and rejecting said playing if said delay time is greater than said play time. 22. Apparatus for serving files each having a leader and remainder in a digital computer system comprising: control server means for cataloging said files; tape library means for storing and playing back at a second latency a plurality of said remainders each corresponding to a different one said file; video server file system means including: disk array means for storing and playing back at a first latency a plurality of said leaders each corresponding to a different one of said remainders; and data pump means for receiving a said leader and a corresponding said remainder and transmitting seamlessly said leader and said remainder; and video archive server means for retrieving selected ones of said remainders from said tape library means and transmitting said selected ones of said remainders for storage and playback by said disk array means. 23. Apparatus for use in a computer system to serve a file having a leader and a remainder in response to a request, comprising: means for prestoring said leader prior to said request in a first playback system; means for playing back said prestored leader in response to said request; means for queuing said remainder in response to and during said playing of said leader; means for transferring in response to a command, said queued remainder to said first playback system from a second playback system having a latency greater than said first playback system; and means for playing back said queued remainder in response to said playing back of said leader. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said first playback subsystem is a digital disk array. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said second playback subsystem is selected from a group comprising: a magnetic tape archive, an optical disk archive, a digital video disk archive, or a DLT archive. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said second playback subsystem is said magnetic tape archive. 27. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said file is a video file. 28. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said file is an audio file. 29. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said playing back of said queued remainder commences contiguously at completion of said playing back said leader. 30. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said playing back said leader is at a first rate; said means for transferring said remainder comprises: means for reading said remainder from said second playback system; and means for transmitting said read remainder to said first playback system at a second rate faster than first rate; and wherein said means for playing back said queued remainder is from said first playback system at said first rate. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said leader and said remainder are stored as one file prior to said means for playing back said leader. 32. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said leader and said remainder are stored as separate files prior to said means for playing back of said leader. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein said apparatus further includes: means for generating a playlist correlating said a plurality of leaders and corresponding ones of said remainders. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein said means for queuing said remainder includes: means for searching said playlist for an entry corresponding to said leader; and means for queuing said remainder from said corresponding ones of said remainders listed in said playlist in response to said searching. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 including: means for determining a delay time corresponding to said second latency and functionally related to when a request for said remainder can be serviced from said second playback system; means for determining a playtime for said leader; and means for comparing said delay time and said play time. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said delay time includes: a time to mount a tape cartridge of said second playback subsystem containing said remainder and locate said remainder on said cartridge. 37. The apparatus of claim 35 including in response to said comparing indicating said delay time is greater than said play time, means for generating a notice that said file cannot be viewed; means for calculating an estimated time when said file can be viewed; and means for generating a notice of said estimated time, said means for generating said notice that said file cannot be viewed, said means for calculating said estimated time, and said means for generating said notice of said estimated time being responsive to said comparing indicating said delay time is greater than said play time. 38. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said play time comprises the time for said means for playing back of said leader at a preselected bit rate to execute said playing back. 39. The apparatus of claim 35 including: means for commencing said playing back of said leader responsive to said means for comparing indicating said delay time is substantially equal to or less than said play time. 40. The apparatus of claim 39 wherein said apparatus further includes: means for queuing said remainder in response to said means for comparing means indicating said delay time is substantially equal to or less than said play time. 41. The apparatus of claim 40 including: means for adding said remainder to said leader in response to said searching said playlist. 42. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said leader is stored on a disk; said means for queuing said remainder includes storing said remainder on said disk; and said apparatus includes means for removing said remainder from said disk after said playing back said queued remainder. 