A robotic system for handling a plurality of items includes a conveyor that moves the items along a central longitudinal axis of the conveyor. A robot base is supported on a rail directly above the conveyor. The robot is moveable along the rail so that it moves along the axis of the conveyor. The robot includes a three-axis arm that is supported for movement relative to the robot base. The robot arm has equal, symmetric access to either side of the conveyor. The robot base does not rotate relative to the conveyor axis.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A system (20) for handling a plurality of items (26), comprising: a conveyor (22) having a longitudinal axis (24) for moving items (26) along said axis; a robot (30) having a base (32) and an arm (34) supported on said robot base for movement relative to said base; and a rail (50) supporting said robot base over said conveyor for movement of said robot base along said axis, said rail including two elongate support members spaced apart in parallel to said longitudinal conveyor axis such that such robot base is supported on said elongate support members and said conveyor is positioned between said elongate support members and beneath said robot base. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot (30) is mounted on said rail (50) for equal access to opposite sides of said conveyor (22) by said robot arm (34). 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor (22) includes a plurality of rollers (25) that each rotate about a roller axis that is perpendicular to said conveyor access. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor (22) comprises a conveyor belt. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot base (32) provides a clearance through which the items (26) are permitted to move as said items are moved along said conveyor axis. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor (22) is maintained at a first height and a portion of the robot base (32) is maintained at a second height so that the items may pass beneath said robot base as said items are moved along said conveyor axis. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second robot supported over said conveyor. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a controller (46) that controls the direction and speed of movement of said robot along said rail. 9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a controller (82) that controls a speed of movement of said conveyor. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said robot controller (46) communicates with said conveyor controller (82) to thereby coordinate the respective speeds of said robot (30) and said conveyor (22). 11. The system of claim 8, wherein said controller controls a direction of movement of said conveyor. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot base (32) is supported on said rail (50) so that said robot base does not rotate relative to said rail. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said robot arm (34) comprises a three-axis arm such that said arm moves relative to said robot base (32) and has symmetrical, equal access to either side of said conveyor (22). 14. The system of claim 13, wherein one of said axes is defined through a connection between said robot arm (34) and said robot base (32). 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said one of said axes is generally parallel to said conveyor axis (24). 16. A system for handling a plurality of items, comprising: a conveyor having a starting point and an ending point with a length extending between the starting point and the ending point, the conveyor moving items from the starting point toward the ending point; a robot having a base and an arm supported on the base such that the arm is movable relative to the base; and a rail supporting the robot base directly over the conveyor such that the robot base is movable along the length of the conveyor. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said rail (50) includes two elongate support members (54) spaced apart and parallel to said longitudinal conveyor access. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said robot base (32) is supported on said elongate support members (54). 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said conveyor (22) is positioned between said elongate support members (54) and beneath said robot base. 20. A system for handling a plurality of items, comprising: a conveyor having a direction of travel along which the conveyor moves items; a robot having a base and an arm supported on the base such that the arm is moveable relative to the base; and a robot base support that supports the robot base directly above the conveyor such that the conveyor is directly beneath the base support and the robot base is moveable along the direction of travel of the conveyor. 