A method and apparatus for automatically calibrating the precise positioning of a wafer handling robot relative to a target structure is disclosed. The apparatus comprises a machine controller connected to robot having an end-effector with three degrees of movement. The controller has a memory with stored rough distance and geometrical data defining the general location of structural features of the target structure. The robot is programmed to move toward the target structure in a series of sequential movements, each movement culminating with the robot end-effector touching a preselected exterior feature of the target structure. Each touching of the end-effector is sensed and provides data for the controller which then calculates the precise location of the target structure. The data accumulated during a series of touching steps by the robot end-effector is utilized by the controller to provide a precise calibrated control program for future operation of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automatically calibrating the positioning of a wafer handling robot to a precise, desired location within an enclosure forming a process station having an opening and exterior structural features, said robot having an articulated arm with an end-effector that is movable in the vertical (Z), angular (.crclbar.), and radial (R) directions and is connected to a controller having memory and logic sections, said method including the steps of: (1)--selecting a plurality of said structural features on said enclosure and storing in said controller, rough distance and geometrical data defining the relative location of said features to said robot; (2)--programming said controller to cause said robot arm to move toward said process station enclosure in a series of sequential movements, each said movement culminating in said robot end-effector touching a preselected said exterior feature of said process station; (3)--sensing a signal response when each end-effector touching occurs and storing such data in said controller relative to the location of each said exterior feature when it is touched by said end-effector; and (4)--combining said stored data from each said touching location to compute a precise calibrated target position of said robot end-effector within said enclosure. 2. The method as described in claim 1 wherein said robot is programmed to touch said enclosure in three separate sequences of operation to provide data that determines precisely the vertical (Z), angular (.crclbar.) and radial (R) coordinates of the calibrated target position. 3. The method as described in claim 1 including the step of producing said signal response when torque applied to move the robot arm rises above a predetermined threshold level as the velocity of the driving servo motor axis decreases. 4. The method as described in claim 3 wherein said threshold level of torque is determined by moving said robot arm freely at a predetermined slew velocity without any touching while measuring the torque level. 5. The method as described in claim 3 wherein said controller is of the closed loop type and measures torque of each robot motor by monitoring its axis velocity. 6. The method as described in claim 1 wherein said process station is a cassette stand having a plurality of open slots for returning a semiconductor wafer. 7. The method as described in claim 6 wherein said cassette stand is mounted on a platform member having an extended portion at the open side of the cassette stand, said platform member having features adapted to be touched by said robot wand in order to calibrate said robot. 8. The method as described in claim 7 wherein said features on said cassette stand include a horizontal surface on said platform for determining a vertical (Z) level, a frontal surface on said platform for determining a radial (R) distance, and side surfaces at the opposite ends of said platform for determining an angular (.crclbar.) position for said robot arm. 9. A method for automatically calibrating the positioning of the end-effector of a wafer handling robot to a precise location within an enclosure forming a process or storage station for wafers said enclosure having a frontal opening and exterior structural features, said robot having a fixed body with an articulating arm having said end-effector that is movable in the vertical (Z), angular e, and radial (R) directions and is connected to a controller having memory and logic sections, said method comprising the steps of: (1)--selecting a plurality of said structural features on said enclosure and storing in said controller rough distance and geometrical data defining the location of said features relative to said robot body; (2)--programming said controller to cause said robot to first determine the Z-height of said enclosure opening by causing said end-effector to sequentially touch the top surface of a platform structure extending from said enclosure having a known thickness and storing a signal generated by said touching; (3)--programming said controller to cause said robot to touch a frontal area of the enclosure structure to determine a rough radial (R) position and storing this position in said controller; (4)--programming said controller to touch sequentially structural locations on opposite sides of said enclosure and thereafter to calculate the calibrated angular position of the centerline of the enclosure opening; (5)--using said calibrated angular position to determine a more accurate radial (R) position of said end-effector; and (6)--determining the yaw angle of said enclosure relative to said end-effector if the enclosure front is not exactly perpendicular to the radial axis of the end-effector. 10. A method for automatically calibrating the positioning of the end-effector of a wafer handling robot to a precise location relative to a target structure such as a process or storage station for wafers, said robot having a fixed body with an articulating arm with said end-effector at its outer end, said arm being movable in the vertical (Z), angular (.crclbar.) and radial (R) directions and being connected to a machine controller having memory and logic sections, said end-effector having sensor means mounted therein, said method comprising the steps of: (1)--selecting a plurality of features on said target structure and storing in said controller rough distance and geometrical data defining the location of said features relative to said robot body; (2)--programming said controller to move in the vertical direction while activating said sensor means to determine Z-height measurements of said target structure and storing said measurements in the controller memory; (3)--programming said controller to cause said robot to touch a frontal area of said target structure to determine a radial (R) position thereof, and storing this position in said controller; (4)--programming said controller to touch sequentially locations on opposite sides of said target structure and thereafter calculating and storing a desired calibrated angular position between the touched sides in said controller; and (5)--combining the stored measurements for the Z, R and e axes for establishing a calibrated, precise position of said robot end-effector relative to said structural target. 11. An automatic calibration system for a wafer transport robot having a main body with an articulating arm and an end-effector, said robot having servo motor means for causing its movement in the radial (R), circular (.crclbar.), and vertical (Z) axes, each said servo motor means including means for digitally measuring its axis velocity, controller means for storing instructions for moving said robot end-effector toward a pre-selected target structure, means associated with said controller means for detecting a reduction in the velocity of a servo motor means when said end-effector touches the target structure, and means for recording the precise position of said end-effector at said target structure relative to said main body of said robot when the touching of the target structure occurs and causes the reduction in servo motor velocity. 12. The automatic calibration system of claim 11 including means in said controller for determining a background torque value that establishes a threshold level for facilitating the detection of a touching event by said end-effector on a target structure. 13. The automatic calibration system of claim 11 wherein said servo motor means for said robot comprises a closed loop servo system for each robot axis. 