The present invention provides an apparatus for vacuum processing generally comprising an enclosure having a plurality of isolated chambers formed therein, a gas distribution assembly disposed in each processing chamber, a gas source connected to the plurality of isolated chambers, and a power supply connected to each gas distribution assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing apparatus, comprising: (a) a chamber having a plurality of isolated processing regions formed therein; (b) a gas distribution assembly disposed in each processing region; (c) a gas source connected to the plurality of isolated processing regions; (d) a power supply connected to each gas distribution assembly. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a wafer pedestal disposed in each isolated processing region. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a pumping channel disposed in each isolated processing region. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising an exhaust port connected to the pumping channel of each isolatable processing region. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein a single exhaust port is connected to the pumping channel in each processing region. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a pump connected to the exhaust port. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein each wafer pedestal includes a heating member disposed therein. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the heating member is a resistive heating element. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the heating member is a lamp. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each isolated processing region further comprises a chamber liner disposed therein. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the chamber liner is comprised of a ceramic. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the chamber liner includes a plurality of exhaust channels disposed therethrough to connect the processing region and the pumping channel. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a remote plasma system connected to each isolated processing region. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the remote plasma system comprises: (a) a chamber; (b) a gas tube having an inlet and an outlet disposed in the chamber; and (c) a power source connected to the chamber. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a fan disposed in the chamber. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the gas tube is comprised of a ceramic. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the gas tube is comprised of aluminum oxide. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each gas distribution assembly comprises: (a) a base plate; (b) a blocker plate disposed below the base plate; (c) a face plate disposed below the blocker plate; (d) one or more gas inlets to deliver one or more process gases to the blocker plate; and (e) one or more gas inlets to deliver one or more gases from the remote plasma source to the face plate. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each gas distribution assembly shares process gases from one or more gas sources. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein each gas distribution assembly is connected to a power supply. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein each gas distribution assembly is connected to a separate power supply. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a wafer pedestal disposed in each processing region. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein each wafer pedestal includes a heating member. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the heating member comprises a resistive heating element. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the heating member comprises a lamp. 26. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein each pedestal includes independent temperature control. 27. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a remote plasma system connected to each isolated processing region. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the remote plasma system comprises: (a) a chamber; (b) a gas tube disposed in the chamber; and (c) a power source connected to the chamber. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein each gas distribution assembly comprises: (a) a base plate; (b) a blocker plate disposed below the base plate; (c) a face plate disposed below the blocker plate; (d) one or more gas inlets to deliver one or more process gases to the blocker plate; and (e) one or more gas inlets to deliver one or more gases from the remote plasma source to the face plate. 