An improved tool mount structure allows the infinite placement of a tool along a generally elongate cylindrical member at an infinite number of locations. The elongate cylindrical member is fixed at each axial end to a generally rigid moving member such as a robotic arm boom or transfer bar. The cylindrical member is fixed in a bracket at one axial end, and into a quick-release mount at an opposed axial end. The cylindrical member may be quickly released from the moving member such that the tool may be easily changed. At the same time, by fixing the cylindrical member at each axial end, a secure rigid connection is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A tool mounting system comprising: a moving member for manipulation of tools attached to said moving member; at least one elongate tool mount extending between two axial ends, said elongate tool mount being fixed to said moving member and being removable therefrom; a quick-release mount structure including a handle, said handle being actuatable to release said tool mount from said moving member, said handle being fixed to said moving member, structure connecting and locking said elongated tool mount to said moving member when said handle is in a locked position, and said elongate tool mount being removable from said moving member when said handle has been moved to a removal position for facilitating unlocking and removal of said tool mount to said moving member; tools mounted on said tool mount at any of an infinite number of locations; and said elongate tool mount being fixed to said moving member adjacent each axial end, said moving member extending generally in a parallel axis adjacent said elongate tool mount. 2. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein said moving member has two lateral sides, and a tool mount mounted on each lateral side of said moving member. 3. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 1, wherein said tool mount including a bar and said tools are mounted on said bar. 4. A tool mounting system as recited in claim 4, wherein said bar having axial ends and fixed to said tool mount adjacent these axial ends. 