A plate stacker is described for use in the field of sample analysis. The plate stacker increases the rate and ease with which sample carriers such as microwell plates may be interfaced with an automated system and includes a removable rack attached to a base to allow plates to be transported to and from an automated system. The stacker rack includes a door which allows for a compact stacker thus allowing manipulation of the microwell plates in a compact area. Generally, the plate stacker provides a means to allow a user to interface with an automated system. The rack portion of the stacker allows the user to load and unload microwell plates into the system in batches by loading or unloading multiple individual plates into or out of the rack. The base portion allows the automated system to load and unload individual microwell plates from the stacker.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rack for storing, transporting, reloading, and dispensing sample carriers, comprising: at most three vertical corner sections, each vertical corner section having a top end and a bottom end; and a door functionally associated with said bottom end of one of said corner sections to allow access to said sample carrier. 2. The rack according to claim 1 further comprising two rack support brackets, each rack support bracket attached to the bottom end of a vertical corner section. 3. The rack according to claim 2 in which each rack support bracket is further provided with a cylindrical opening. 4. The rack according to claim 1 further comprising an orientation sensor functionally associated with said rack to detect the sample carrier orientation. 5. The rack according to claim 4 in which the orientation sensor is a visible light sensor. 6. The rack according to claim 4 in which the orientation sensor is a mechanical stop. 7. The rack according to claim 4 in which the orientation sensor is a laser. 8. A stacker apparatus for storing, transporting, reloading, and dispensing microwell plates, comprising: a rack having three vertical corner sections, each vertical corner section having a top end and a bottom end; a door functionally associated with said bottom end of one of said corner sections to allow access to said microwell plate; a base adapted to receive said rack, said base further comprising: a stacker table functionally associated with said base; a door opening element attached to said base, said element being positioned to contact said door on said rack; a plate gripper movably attached to said base; said rack detachably mounted to said base; each of said bottom ends of said corner sections of said rack being closer to said base than the top end of each of the corner sections; and a control functionally associated with said base. 9. The stacker according to claim 8 in which the plate gripper is provided with rubber pads. 10. The stacker according to claim 8 in which the control is a personal computer having controlling software. 11. The stacker according to claim 8 in which the control is a programmable logic controller. 12. The stacker according to claim 8 in which the base further comprises: raising means connecting the stacker table to the base, said raising means being controlled by the control; a linear bearing attached to said base and movably attached to said stacker table; a home sensor attached to the base; a travel limit sensor attached to the base, said stacker table having a sensor tab to trigger said home sensor and said travel limit sensor. 13. The stacker according to claim 8 in which the raising means is a stepper motor attached to the stacker table by a lead screw. 14. The stacker according to claim 8 in which the base further comprises a rack locating pin attached to said base for receiving the rack. 15. The stacker according to claim 14 in which the rack further comprises two rack support brackets, each rack support bracket attached to the bottom end of said vertical corner sections; said rack support brackets being mated with said rack locating pins positioned on said base. 16. The stacker according to claim 8 further comprising a plate orientation sensor attached to said base. 17. The stacker according to claim 16 in which the plate orientation sensor is a visible light sensor. 18. The stacker according to claim 16 in which the plate orientation sensor is a laser. 19. The stacker according to claim 16 in which the plate orientation sensor is a mechanical stop. 20. A stacker apparatus for storing, transporting, reloading, and dispensing microwell plates, comprising: means for storing microwell plates, said means having three vertical corner sections; means for supporting said means for storing microwell plates further comprising: a stacker table functionally associated with said means for supporting; means to grip microwell plates; means for removably attaching said means storing microwell plates to said means for supporting; raising means to elevate the stacker table; means for controlling the means for storing and means for supporting to load, unload, and store the microwell plates; and means for supporting the means for storing microwell plates at a prescribed height. 21. The stacker according to claim 20 in which the means for controlling is a personal computer having controlling software. 22. The stacker according to claim 20 in which the means to elevate is a stepper motor attached to the stacker table by a lead screw. 23. The stacker according to claim 20 further comprising a means for orienting said microwell plates, said means for orienting attached to said means for supporting. 24. The stacker according to claim 20 in which the means for controlling is a programmable logic controller. 25. The stacker according to claim 20 in which the means for gripping the microwell plates are provided with rubber pads. 26. The stacker according to claim 20 in which said means for storing microwell plates is provided with a door, said vertical corner sections having a top end and a bottom end, said bottom end of each vertical section closer to the supporting means than the top end, said door connected to the bottom end of one vertical section. 27. The stacker according to claim 26 in which the means for supporting is provided with a means for opening a door, said means for opening a door affixed to said means for supporting, said means for opening also being positioned to contact the door on the means for storing microwell plates. 28. A stacker apparatus for storing, transporting, and dispensing microwell plates, comprising: a rack having three vertical corner sections, each vertical corner section having a top end and a bottom end; a door functionally associated with said bottom end of one of said corner sections to allow access to said microwell plate; and two rack support brackets, each rack support bracket attached to the bottom end of said vertical corner sections; a base adapted to receive said rack, said base further comprising; a stacker table functionally associated with said base; a linear bearing attached to the base; said linear bearing movably attached to said stacker table; a door opening element attached to said base positioned to contact said door on said rack; a plate gripper movably attached to said base having rubber pads; raising means having a stepper motor, said raising means connected to the stacker table and the base; a home sensor attached to the base; a travel limit sensor attached to the base; said stacker table having a sensor tab to trigger said home sensor and said travel limit sensor; a plate orientation sensor attached to said base; said rack detachably mounted to said base; two rack supporting pins attached to the base for receiving said rack; and a personal computer functionally associated with said base to control the manipulation of the microwell plates; said rack support brackets being mated with said rack supporting pins located on said base; each of said bottom ends of said corner sections of said rack being closer to said base than the top end of each of the corner sections. 29. A method of storing, dispensing, reloading, and transporting microwell plates, comprising: providing a rack having three vertical corner sections; providing a base adapted to receive the rack; and controlling said rack and said base to manipulate said microwell plates. 30. A method of storing, dispensing, reloading, and transporting microwell plates, comprising: providing a stacker comprising: a rack having three vertical corner sections, each vertical corner section having a top end and a bottom end; a door functionally associated with said bottom end of one of said corner sections to allow access to said microwell plate; a base adapted to receive said rack, said base further comprising; a stacker table functionally associated with said base; a door opening element attached to said base positioned to contact said door on said rack; a plate gripper movably attached to said base; said rack detachably mounted to said base; each of said bottom ends of said corner sections of said rack being closer to said base than the top end of each of the corner sections; and a control functionally associated with said base; and operating the control to manipulate the microwell plates. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising determining the orientation of the microwell plates with an orientation sensor. 32. A stacker apparatus for four cornered sample carriers comprising: a rack to contact at most three corners of the sample carriers when the sample carriers are inserted into the rack, the rack having a bottom; a door functionally associated with the bottom of the rack to allow access to the sample carriers; and a base adapted to receive the bottom of the rack, said base having a door opening element that contacts the door to open the door on the rack when the rack is placed into the base, the rack being detachably mounted to said base. 33. The stacker apparatus of claim 32 further comprising a control functionally associated with said base. 34. The stacker apparatus of claim 33 further comprising a stacker table functionally associated with the base to manipulate the sample carriers. 35. The stacker apparatus of claim 34 further comprising a plate gripper movably attached to said base to selectively secure and release sample carriers. 36. The stacker apparatus of claim 35 further comprising an orientation sensor to sense the orientation of the sample carriers. 