The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: flowing one or more process gases into a substrate processing chamber to deposit a layer on a substrate; applying power to a heater for heating the heater to a predetermined target temperature, where an amount of power applied is a function of a temperature ramp rate error based on a difference between a desired ramp rate and a calculated ramp rate of heater temperature, said calculated ramp rate changing as a function of a current temperature of the heater at a point in time during heating; and discharging exhaust gases from the substrate processing chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the predetermined target temperature is at least about 500.degree. C. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the predetermined target temperature is at least about 650.degree. C. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step further comprises: measuring said current temperature of the heater within the substrate processing chamber during said heating of the heater; determining the desired ramp rate based on the current temperature of the heater; and wherein the power applied to the heater is also a function of the desired ramp rate. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising steps of: using a control function based on the temperature ramp rate error to determine an appropriate level of said power to apply to the heater. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising steps of: dampening a system response of the heater to the appropriate level of said power using a saturation function if a difference between the appropriate level and a preceding level exceeds saturation limits; and wherein the appropriate level is determined using the control function when the difference between the appropriate level and the preceding level is within saturation limits. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the dampening step is carried out by determining a maximum difference in power between adjacent time steps and limiting the difference between the appropriate power and the preceding power to the maximum difference. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the calculated ramp rate is determined based on a numerical differentiation technique. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the calculated ramp rate is determined based on averaging measured ramp rates divided by an update period. 10. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of applying power is carried out by applying electrical energy to a resistive heater within the substrate processing chamber. 11. The method of claim 4 wherein the current temperature is measured with a thermocouple. 12. The method of claim 4 wherein the desired ramp rate is determined by defining the desired ramp rate as a continuous function of the current temperature of the heater. 13. The method of claim 4 wherein the determining step occurs only once during said heating of the heater. 14. The method of claim 4 wherein said step of determining the desired ramp rate occurs at a frequency based on a defined time interval. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the determining step occurs at least about 10 times per second. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the heater comprises a ceramic material. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the ceramic material comprises aluminum nitride. 18. The method of claim 1 comprising: determining a temperature error between a predetermined target temperature and the current temperature of the heater during said heating of the heater. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising selecting a ramp control algorithm to determine an appropriate level of said power to apply to the heater, based on when said temperature error is greater than a predetermined boundary value. 20. The method of claim 18 further comprising selecting a temperature regulator algorithm when the temperature error is less than a predetermined boundary value, the temperature regulator algorithm using proportional, integral, and differential (PID) control to determine the appropriate level of said power. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying step comprises selecting a desired ramp rate that is a constant value based on a minimum thermal shock resistance of the heater. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein said method is used to form an integrated circuit device. 23. A method comprising: measuring a current temperature within a processing chamber of a substrate processing apparatus; determining a temperature error between a predetermined target temperature and said current temperature; selecting a ramp control algorithm to determine an appropriate power to control the temperature within the processing chamber to said predetermined target temperature, based on said temperature error being greater than a predetermined boundary value; selecting a temperature regulator algorithm when said temperature error is less than said predetermined boundary value; and applying said appropriate power to control the temperature within the substrate processing apparatus. 24. A method comprising: measuring a current temperature of a heater within a substrate processing chamber during substrate processing; determining a desired ramp rate based on the current temperature of the heater during processing; and applying power to the heater based on the desired ramp rate to control the temperature to said predetermined target temperature, wherein a controller used to control the power has a saturation function adapted to limit the maximum allowable change in applied power from one time step to a next time step. 25. A method comprising: flowing one or more process gases into a substrate processing chamber to deposit a layer on a substrate; heating the chamber by applying power to a heater, wherein the power applied to the heater during said heating is determined by using a temperature ramp control algorithm independent from a timed temperature trajectory; and discharging exhaust gases from the substrate processing chamber. 26. A method as in claim 25 wherein the heating step comprises calculating a temperature ramp rate error based on a desired temperature ramp rate and an actual temperature ramp rate of the heater. 27. A method as in claim 25 wherein the heating step comprises using a numerical differentiation technique. 28. A method as in claim 27 wherein the numerical differentiation technique comprises comparing an average of a plurality of measured temperatures in one power update period to an average of a plurality of measured temperatures from a previous power update period. 