An electrical connector assembly includes a connector having a housing adapted for mating with an appropriate complementary mating connector. A pivot post is fixed to and projects from the housing. A lever is pivotable about the pivot post between operative and inoperative positions for mating and unmating the connectors. The lever includes an aperture embracing the pivot post. The aperture is larger than the post to allow for lost motion between the lever and the post. The lever includes a latch portion engageable with the mating connector for drawing the connectors into mated condition in response to rotating the lever about the pivot post from the inoperative position to the operative position. A spring is operatively associated between the lever and the pivot post to bias the lever in the mating direction of the mating connector when the lever is in its operative position to, thereby, bias the mating connector into a fully mated position.
Claims I claim: 1. An electrical connector assembly, comprising: a connector having a housing adapted for mating with an appropriate complementary mating connector, and a pivot post fixed to and projecting from the housing; a lever pivotable about said pivot post between operative and inoperative positions for mating and unmating the connectors, the lever including an aperture embracing the pivot post, the aperture defining a closed loop around the pivot post and being larger than the post to allow for lost motion between the lever and the post, and the lever including a latch portion engageable with the mating connector for drawing the connectors into mated condition in response to rotating the lever about the pivot post from said inoperative position to said operative position; and a spring operatively connecting the lever and the pivot post to bias the lever in the mating direction of the mating connector when the lever is in its operative position to, thereby, bias the mating connector into a fully mated position. 2. The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said spring is generally U-shaped with a distal end of one leg fixed to the lever and a distal end of an opposite leg fixed to the pivot post. 3. The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said housing includes a cover having said pivot post thereon and on which said lever is mounted. 4. The electrical connector of claim 1, including a detent recess in the latch portion of the lever and into which a latch projection of the mating connector snaps to give an audible and tactile indication of the fully mated position of the mating connector. 5. The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said latch portion of the lever is located at one side of the pivot post and said spring is located at an opposite side of the pivot post. 6. The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said latch portion of the lever comprises a latch hook for engaging a latch projection on the mating connector. 7. The electrical connector of claim 6, including a detent recess at a base of the latch hook and into which the latch projection of the mating connector snaps to give an audible and tactile indication of the fully mated position of the mating connector. 8. The electrical connector of claim 1 wherein said lever is generally U-shaped and straddles the housing with a pair of lever arms on opposite sides of the housing pivotable about a pair of pivot posts at the opposite sides of the housing, and with at least one of said springs being operatively associated between one of the lever arms and one of the pivot posts. 9. The electrical connector of claim 8, including one of said springs operatively associated between each lever arm and its respective pivot post. 10. An electrical connector assembly, comprising: a connector having a housing adapted for mating with an appropriate complementary mating connector, said housing including a cover and a lever pivot post fixed to and projecting from each of two opposite sides of the cover; a generally U-shaped lever straddling the housing and includes a pair of lever arms pivotable about said pivot posts on opposite sides of the housing so that the lever pivots between operative and inoperative positions for mating and unmating the connectors, the lever arms including apertures embracing the pivot posts, the apertures being larger than the posts to allow for lost motion between the lever and the posts, and each lever arm including a latch portion on one side of the respective pivot post engageable with the mating connector for drawing the connectors into mated condition in response to rotating the lever about the pivot posts from said inoperative position to said operative position; and a spring operatively associated between each lever arm and the respective pivot post to bias the lever in the mating direction of the mating connector when the lever is in its operative position to, thereby, bias the mating connector into a fully mated position, the spring for each lever arm being located at an opposite side of the pivot post from the latch portion of the lever arm. 11. The electrical connector of claim 10 wherein each spring is generally U-shaped with a distal end of one leg of the spring fixed to the respective lever arm and a distal end of an opposite leg of the spring fixed to the respective pivot post. 12. The electrical connector of claim 10, including a detent recess in the latch portion of each lever arm and into which a latch projection of the mating connector snaps to give an audible and tactile indication of the fully mated position of the mating connector. 13. The electrical connector of claim 10 wherein said latch portions of the lever arms comprise latch hooks for engaging appropriate latch projections on the mating connector. 14. The electrical connector of claim 13, including a detent recess at a base of the latch hook for each lever arm and into which the respective latch projection of the mating connector snaps to give an audible and tactile indication of the fully mated position of the mating connector. 15. An electrical connector assembly, comprising: a connector having a housing adapted for mating with an appropriate complementary mating connector and a pivot post fixed to and projecting from the housing; a lever pivotable about said pivot post between operative and inoperative positions for mating and unmating the connectors, the lever including an aperture embracing the pivot post, the aperture being larger than the post to allow for lost motion between the lever and the post, and the lever including a latch portion engageable with the mating connector for drawing the connectors into mated condition in response to rotating the lever about the pivot post from said inoperative position to said operative position; and a spring operatively associated between the lever and the pivot post to bias the lever in the mating direction of the mating connector when the lever is in its operative position to, thereby, bias the mating connector into a fully mated position wherein said spring is generally U-shaped with a distal end of one leg fixed to the lever and a distal end of an opposite leg fixed to the pivot post. 