A novel method and apparatus of wet processing workpieces, such as electroplating semiconductor wafers and the like, that incorporates reciprocating processing fluid agitation to control fluid flow at the workpiece, and where electric fields are involved as in such electroplating, controlling the electric field distribution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an electroplating process for a cathodically connected fixed thin workpiece between which and a fixed parallel anode an electric field is established within an electroplating fluid chamber, a method of improving the control of fluid flow and uniformity of electroplating of the workpiece, that comprises radially agitating the fluid by internally cyclically reciprocally rotating the fluid back and forth throughout the chamber between the cathodic workpiece and the anode and flowing the fluid laterally over the workpiece cathode. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein processing fluid flows into and out of the chamber, with fresh processing fluid distributed to the center of and laterally outward of the workpiece while effecting immediate agitation mixing of fluid entering the processing chamber. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the chamber is vertically stacked in one or more stacks of a plurality of similar other chambers each containing a similar workpiece for electroplating and each with separate internal agitating in each chamber. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the workpieces are robotically horizontally inserted into the chambers of the stack for electroplating and then horizontally retrieved therefrom. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the stacks circumferentially surround the robotic insertion and withdrawal of the workpieces from a robotic cluster tool. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the workpieces in the stacks of chambers are thin circular planar semiconductor wafers. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein electric- field shielding is simultaneously reciprocally effected between the workpiece and the anode during the agitating. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said shielding is configured to cause the time-averaged electric field application between the workpiece and the anode due to the reciprocal agitating and shielding to be substantially uniform across the workpiece cathode to achieve a substantially uniform thickness of electroplate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the shielding is contoured to provide the desired electroplating thickness over the workpiece. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the chamber is cylindrical and the agitating in the chamber is effected by cyclically reciprocally rotating circumferentially spaced radial blades within the fluid in the chamber. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein each of the blades, the cathodic workpiece and the anode are extended to the inner walls of the chamber. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the rotation of the blades is effected by DC motor control integrated into said inner walls of the chamber. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the DC motor control is effected by circumferentially mounting a ring of magnets carried as a rotor by the peripheral edges of the blades within a coaxially surrounding stator integrated in the said inner walls of the chamber. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein electric- field shielding is carried by the blades during their rotation in the fluid between the workpiece and the anode. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the shielding is effected by wedged-shaped radially extending sectors attached to the top edges of the blades. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the sectors are configured to cause the time-averaged electric field application between the workpiece and the anode due to the reciprocal agitating and shielding to be substantially uniform across the workpiece cathode to achieve a substantially uniform thickness of electroplate. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece is a thin circular planar semiconductor wafer. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece and anode have co-extensive planar parallel surfaces that are positioned to oppose one another through the fluid of the chamber, with the workpiece surface at the top and the anode surface at the bottom of the chamber, both extending to the inner walls of the chamber. 19. In an electroplating system for electroplating a fixed cathodically thin workpiece between which and a fixed parallel anode a electric field is established within an electroplating fluid chamber, apparatus for improving the control of fluid flow and uniformity of electroplating of the workpiece, having, in combination, fluid mixing means disposed within the chamber, and means for operating the mixing means to agitate radially the fluid by internally cyclically reciprocally rotating the fluid back and forth and throughout the chamber between the cathodic workpiece and the anode and flowing the fluid laterally over the workpiece cathode. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein means is provided for processing-fluid flow into and out of the chamber, with fresh processing fluid distributed to the center of and laterally outward of the workpiece while effecting immediate agitation mixing of all fluid entering the processing chamber. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the chamber is vertically stacked in one or more stacks of a plurality of similar other chambers each containing a similar workpiece for electroplating and each with separate internal agitating mixing means in each chamber. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein a robotic control is provided for robotically inserting the workpieces horizontally into the chamber of the stack for electroplating and then horizontally retrieving them therefrom. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the stacks of chambers circumferentially surround the robotic control for insertion and withdrawal of the workpieces as a robotic cluster tool. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 where the workpieces in the stacks of chambers are thin circular planar semiconductor wafers. 25. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein electric-field shielding is simultaneously reciprocally rotated in the fluid between the workpiece and the anode during the agitating. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the shielding means is configured to cause the time-averaged electric field application between the workpiece and the anode due to the reciprocal agitating and shielding to be substantially uniform across the workpiece cathode to achieve a substantially uniform thickness of electroplate. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the shielding means is contoured to provide the desired electroplate thickness distribution over the workpiece. 28. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the chamber is cylindrical and the reciprocally agitating mixing means in the chamber comprises cyclically reciprocally rotating circumferentially spaced radial rotor blades. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the blades are operated to cause the time-averaged electric field application between the workpiece and the anode to be substantially uniform. 30. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein each of the blades, the cathodic workpiece and the anode are extended to the inner walls of the chamber. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein the rotation of the rotor blades is effected by a DC motor system integrated into said inner walls of the chamber. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 wherein the DC motor rotor comprises a circumferential mounting ring of magnets carried by the peripheral edges of the blades within a coaxially surrounding stator integrated in said inner walls of the chamber. 33. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein electric-field shielding is carried by the blades during rotation in the fluid between the workpiece and the anode. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the shielding comprises wedged-shaped radially extending sectors attached to the top edges of the blades. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein the sectors are configured to cause the time-averaged electric field application between the workpiece and the anode due to the reciprocal agitating and shielding to be substantially uniform across the workpiece cathode to achieve a substantially uniform thickness of electroplate. 36. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the rotor blades are provided with fluid flow windows to direct fluid flow to and from the workpiece as the blades rotate about a central longitudinal axis. 37. The apparatus of claim 36 wherein a central fluid flow channel is provided to direct fluid flow upward toward the center of the workpiece. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 wherein the fluid flow is split into three paths; (1) through a channel along the bottom edges of the blades and up the central flow channel; (2) through the axial interface at the inner cylindrical wall of the chamber; and (3) out of the chamber cavity passing through upper slots. 39. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the rotor blades are positioned in the fluid flow chamber by direct contact along the substantially cylindrical inner chamber wall interface, serving with the fluid as a journal bearing to enable centering of the rotor blades in the chamber, and in a plane substantially perpendicular to the rotation axis of the rotor blades. 40. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the workpiece is a thin circular planar semiconductor wafer. 41. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the workpiece and anode have co-extensive planar parallel surfaces that are positioned to oppose one another through the fluid of the chamber, with the workpiece surface at the top and the anode surface at the bottom of the chamber, both extending to the inner walls of the chamber. 42. In a wet processing system in which processing fluid flows against a fixed workpiece surface contained within a cylindrical fluid processing chamber, a method of improving the control of fluid flow and the uniformity of the processing of the workpiece, that comprises, agitating the fluid by internally cyclically reciprocally rotating spaced radial vanes disposed within the fluid and extending from the center of the chamber to the inner walls thereof. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the rotation of the vanes is effected by DC motor control integrated into said inner walls of the chamber. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the DC motor control is effected by circumferentially mounting a ring of magnets carried as a rotor by the peripheral edges of the vanes within a coaxially surrounding stator integrated in said inner walls of the chamber. 45. The method of claim 42 wherein the angles of the reciprocating agitation by the vanes in the opposite directions of rotation are adjusted to different values. 46. In a wet processing system in which processing fluid flows against a fixed workpiece surface contained within a cylindrical fluid processing chamber, apparatus for improving the control of fluid flow and the uniformity of the processing of the workpiece having, in combination, fluid mixing means comprising a rotor of spaced radial vanes disposed in the fluid of the chamber, and means for agitating the fluid by internally cyclically reciprocally rotating the spaced radial vanes of the rotor, the vanes extending from the center of the chamber to the inner walls thereof. 47. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein the rotation of the blades is effected by DC motor control integrated into said inner walls of the chamber. 48. The apparatus of claim 47 wherein the DC motor comprises a circumferential mounting ring of magnets carried as the motor rotor by the peripheral edges of the vanes within a coaxially surrounding stator integrated in said inner walls of the chamber. 49. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein the angles of the reciprocating agitation by the vanes in the opposite directions of rotation are adjusted to different values. 50. In a wet processing system in which processing fluid is contained in a cylindrical processing chamber, an apparatus comprising a rotor of spaced radial vanes disposed in the fluid with the vanes extending from the center of the chamber to its inner walls, and means for agitating the fluid by cyclically reciprocally rotating the vanes. 51. The apparatus of claim 50 wherein the rotor is provided with a ring of magnets carried by the peripheral edges of the vanes within a coaxially surrounding stator integrated in said inner walls of the chamber. 