A flexible actuator assembly (20) including a flexible bladder device (22) having an expandable sealed chamber (23) adapted to substantially directionally displace between a deflated condition and an inflated condition, displacing a proximal portion (25) of the bladder device (22) away from a distal portion (26) thereof. An elongated tendon member (27) includes a distal portion (28) oriented outside the chamber (23), while an anchor portion (30) extends into the chamber (23) through a distal opening (31) in the bladder device (22). The tendon anchor portion (30) is further coupled proximate to the bladder proximal portion (25) in a manner adapted to: selectively invert displaceable portions (32) of the bladder device (22) when urged toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion (30) and the bladder proximal portion (25) relatively closer to the bladder distal portion (26); and selectively evert the inverted displaceable portions (32) of the bladder device (22) when displaced toward the inflated condition which positions the anchor portion (30) and the bladder proximal portion (25) relatively farther away from the bladder distal portion (26) for selective movement of the tendon distal portion (28) between an extended condition and a retracted condition, respectively.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible actuator assembly comprising: a flexible bladder device defining an expandable chamber, between a proximal portion and an opposite distal portion thereof, adapted to substantially directionally displace between a deflated condition and an inflated condition, displacing said proximal portion away from said distal portion; an elongated tendon member having a distal portion, positioned outside the chamber, and an anchor portion, spaced-apart from the tendon distal portion, extending into said chamber through a distal opening in said bladder device positioned proximate the bladder distal portion thereof, the anchor portion being coupled proximate to the bladder proximal portion in a manner adapted to selectively displace the tendon member distal portion away from the bladder device distal portion when the bladder device is displaced toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively closer to the bladder distal portion, and selectively displace the tendon member distal portion toward the bladder device distal portion when the bladder device is displaced toward the inflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively farther away from the bladder distal portion for selective movement of the tendon member between an extended condition and a retracted condition, respectively; and a sliding seal formed in the bladder distal opening between the bladder device and said tendon member to sufficiently seal said chamber during reciprocating movement between the retracted condition and the extended condition. 2. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 further including: a support plug positioned between said bladder device and the tendon anchor portion to mount said tendon member to the bladder device proximate the bladder proximal portion. 3. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 2 further including: a length adjustment device coupled between the tendon anchor portion and the support plug for length adjustment of the tendon distal portion relative the support plug. 4. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 2 wherein, said bladder proximal portion defines a proximal opening into said chamber formed and dimensioned for sealed receipt of said support plug therein. 5. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 4 wherein, an engaging surface of the bladder proximal portion is inverted inwardly into said chamber to define said proximal opening to selectively invert displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively closer to the bladder distal portion, and selectively evert the inverted displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the inflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively farther away from the bladder distal portion. 6. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 5 wherein, said support plug defines a mounting surface adapted to cooperate with the inverted engaging surface of said bladder device to form a sufficient seal therewith. 7. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 6 wherein, said support plug includes an elongated support surface formed to provide radial support to the inverted displaceable portions of said bladder device when oriented in said deflated condition. 8. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 7 wherein, said displaceable portions of said bladder device tapers inwardly toward the bladder proximal portion, and and said support surface of said support plug tapers outwardly away from said mounting surface in a manner substantially conforming to the inward taper of said displaceable portions when oriented in the deflated condition. 9. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 2 further including: an elongated support post positioned longitudinally in said chamber, and said support plug providing a sliding surface cooperating with said elongated support post for sliding support longitudinally therealong between the deflated condition and the inflated condition. 10. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 9 wherein, said sliding surface of said support plug defines an orifice formed and dimensioned for sliding receipt of said support plug therethrough. 11. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 1 wherein, said tendon member defining a passageway extending therethrough and into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 12. A flexible actuator assembly comprising: a flexible bladder device defining an expandable chamber, between a proximal portion and an opposite distal portion thereof, adapted to substantially directionally displace between a deflated condition and an inflated condition; an elongated tendon member having a distal portion, positioned outside the chamber, and an anchor portion extending into said chamber through an opening in said bladder device positioned proximate the bladder distal portion thereof, the anchor portion being coupled proximate to the bladder proximal portion in a manner adapted to selectively invert displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the deflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively closer to the bladder distal portion, and selectively evert the inverted displaceable portions of the bladder device when displaced toward the inflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder proximal portion relatively farther away from the bladder distal portion for selective movement of the tendon member between an extended condition and a retracted condition, respectively; and a sliding seal cooperating with the tendon member to sufficiently seal said chamber during reciprocating movement between the retracted condition and the extended condition. 13. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 12 wherein, said distal portion of said flexible bladder device is further adapted to substantially directionally displace between the deflated condition and the inflated condition, displacing said distal portion away from said proximal portion; an elongated ligament member having a proximal portion, positioned outside the chamber, and an anchor portion, spaced-apart from the ligament proximal portion, extending into said chamber through a proximal opening in said bladder device positioned proximate the bladder proximal portion thereof, the ligament anchor portion being coupled proximate to the bladder distal portion in a manner adapted to selectively invert foldable portions of the bladder distal portion when displaced toward the deflated condition to position the ligament anchor portion and the bladder distal portion relatively closer to the bladder proximal portion, and selectively evert the inverted foldable portions of the bladder distal portion when displaced toward the inflated condition to position the anchor portion and the bladder distal portion relatively farther away from the bladder proximal portion for selective movement of the ligament member between a lengthened condition and a shortened condition, respectively; and a second sliding seal cooperating with the ligament member to sufficiently seal said chamber during reciprocating movement between the lengthened condition and the shortened condition. 14. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein, said bladder device at said displaceable portions tapers radially inwardly toward the bladder proximal portion, and said bladder device at said folded portions tapers radially inwardly toward the bladder distal portion. 15. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 13 further including: a pressure port extending into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said bladder device between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 16. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 13 further including: a central support ring positioned proximate and coupled to a central portion of said bladder device for structural support thereof. 17. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 13 wherein, said central support ring includes a pressure port extending into said chamber to enable fluid communication for inflation and deflation of said chamber to displace said displaceable portions between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively, and displace said folded portions between the inflated condition and deflated condition, respectively. 18. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 13 further including: a proximal support plug positioned between said proximal portion of the bladder device and the tendon anchor portion to mount said tendon member to the bladder proximal portion, and a distal support plug positioned between the distal portion of the bladder device and the ligament anchor portion to mount said ligament member to the bladder distal portion. 19. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 18 wherein, said bladder proximal portion defines a proximal opening into said chamber formed and dimensioned for sealed receipt of said proximal support plug therein, and said bladder distal opening into said chamber is formed and dimensioned for sealed receipt of said distal support plug therein. 20. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 19 wherein, said proximal support plug further defining a proximal aperture extending therethrough for reciprocating receipt of said ligament member between the lengthened condition and the shortened condition, and said distal support plug further defining a distal aperture extending therethrough for reciprocating receipt of said tendon member between the extended condition and the retracted condition. 21. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 20 wherein, the distal aperture is sized and dimensioned to support the first named sliding seal therein, and the proximal aperture is sized and dimensioned to support the second sliding seal therein. 22. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 21 wherein, a proximal engaging surface of the bladder proximal portion being inverted inwardly into said chamber to define said proximal opening, and a distal engaging surface of the bladder distal portion being inverted inwardly into said chamber to define said distal opening. 23. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 22 wherein, said proximal support plug defines a proximal mounting surface adapted to cooperate with the inverted proximal engaging surface of said bladder proximal portion to form a sufficient seal therewith, and said distal support plug defines a distal mounting surface adapted to cooperate with the inverted distal engaging surface of said bladder distal portion to form a sufficient seal therewith. 24. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 23 wherein, said proximal support plug further defining an elongated proximal support surface extending proximally away from said proximal mounting surface, and formed to provide radial support to the inverted displaceable portions of said bladder proximal portion when oriented toward said deflated condition, and said distal support plug further defining an elongated distal support surface extending distally away from said distal mounting surface, and formed to provide radial support to the inverted folded portions of said bladder distal portion when oriented toward said deflated condition. 25. The flexible actuator assembly according to claim 24 wherein, said displaceable portions of said bladder device tapers inwardly toward the bladder proximal portion, and said proximal support surface of said proximal support plug tapers outwardly away from said proximal mounting surface in a manner substantially conforming to the inward taper of said displaceable portions when oriented toward the deflated condition, and, said folded portions of said bladder device tapers inwardly toward the bladder distal portion, and said distal support surface of said distal support plug tapers outwardly away from said distal mounting surface in a manner substantially conforming to the inward taper of said folded portions when oriented in the deflated condition. 26. A flexible actuator assembly according to claim 12 wherein, said displaceable portions define longitudinally extending support ribs and grooves alternatively positioned about the longitudinal axis thereof. 27. A flexible actuator assembly according to claim 26 wherein, said inverted displaceable portions, in the deflated condition, are adapted to collapse said grooves and cause said support ribs to cooperate with one another to form a support wall of increased uniform thickness. 