In an automated welding machine, where a flow of liquid coolant is supplied to welding components on the machine from a source of coolant and then returned to the source of coolant, a safety system is provided that shuts down the flow of coolant in the event of a fault. Faults are detected by a supply sensor and a return sensor for measuring the flow rates of coolant in the supply and return lines. A microprocessor is adapted to compare the supply flow rate and return flow rate and detect differences between the two rates. The difference between the detected rates as compared to a leak threshold value, and the microprocessor is adapted to generate a valve shutoff signal in the event the detected difference in flow rates exceeds the leak threshold value. A value in the supply coolant line is responsive to the valve shutoff signal to shutoff flow of coolant in response thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an automated welding machine, where a flow of liquid coolant in a coolant line is supplied to welding components on the automated welding machine and then returned from the welding components, the improvement comprising: a supply sensor that generates a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; a return sensor that generates a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; a processor that determines whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded for a finite time period utilizing the first and second signals and that, responsive to a determination that the leak threshold value has been exceeded for the finite time period, generates a valve shut-off signal; and a valve responsive to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant in response thereto. 2. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate a coolant flow rate from at least one of the first and second signals, and the improvement further comprises a display, coupled to the processor, that displays the calculated coolant flow rate. 3. The improvement of claim 2, further comprising a history input that causes the processor to display on the display at least a number of detected leaks. 4. The improvement of claim 1, further comprising a calibration circuit for automatically calibrating the processor to compensate for sensor drifts over time. 5. The improvement of claim 1, further comprising an internal auxiliary flow monitor that uses a separate circuit to monitor coolant flow. 6. The improvement of claim 5, wherein the internal auxiliary flow monitor is a stand-alone unit flow monitor that is hard wired in series with a main circuit. 7. The improvement of claim 1, further comprising a coolant temperature sensor located near the coolant line and coupled to the processor. 8. The improvement of claim 7, wherein the coolant temperature sensor is one of a plurality of series-connected coolant temperature sensors, and all of said plurality of coolant temperature sensors are coupled to the processor. 9. The improvement of claim 1, further comprising a weld timer circuit for shutting off coolant flow after a predetermined period of inactivity. 10. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the supply sensor comprises a supply rotor and the return sensor comprises a return rotor. 11. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the processor is adapted to determine a check valve error by sensing coolant flow through the return sensor and absence of coolant flow through the supply sensor. 12. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the processor is adapted to determine a valve bypass condition if the processor generates a valve shut-off signal but both the supply sensor and the return sensor continue to detect coolant flow. 13. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the processor is adapted to reset coolant flow calculation if a power spike occurs, wherein a power spike is detected when a toggle switch or a relay changes state. 14. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the valve is located in the supply coolant line. 15. In an automated welding machine, where a flow of liquid coolant in a coolant line is supplied to welding components on the automated welding machine and then returned from the welding components, the improvement comprising: a supply sensor that generates a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; a return sensor that generates a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; a processor that determines whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded for a finite time period utilizing the first and second signals and that, responsive to a determination that the leak threshold value has been exceeded for the finite time period, generates a valve shut-off signal; and a valve responsive to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant in response thereto; wherein the processor is adapted to detect one of the supply flow rate and the return flow rate crossing a threshold flow value and, if so, to generate a signal indicative of the detection. 16. The improvement of claim 15, wherein the threshold flow value is a low flow threshold value. 17. The improvement of claim 15, wherein the threshold flow value is a high flow threshold value. 18. In an automated welding machine, where a flow of liquid coolant in a coolant line is supplied to welding components on the automated welding machine and then returned from the welding components, the improvement comprising: a supply sensor that generates a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in a supply coolant line to welding components; a return sensor that generates a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in a return coolant line from the welding components; a processor that determines whether a leak threshold value has been exceeded for a finite time period utilizing the first and second signals and that, responsive to a determination that the leak threshold value has been exceeded for the finite time period, generates a valve shut-off signal; a valve responsive to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant in response thereto; and a display coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate a coolant flow rate from at least one of the first and second signals, and cause the display to display the calculated coolant flow rate. 19. The improvement of claim 17, wherein the processor is adapted to detect one of the supply flow rate and the return flow rate crossing a threshold flow value and, if so, to generate a signal indicative of the detection. 20. An apparatus for detecting coolant leaks in a coolant line including a supply coolant line and a return coolant line, the apparatus comprising: a supply sensor that generates a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in the supply coolant line; a return sensor that generates a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in the return coolant line; a processor that determines whether a leak condition exists for a finite time period utilizing the first and second signals and that, responsive to a determination that the leak condition exists the finite time period, generates a valve shut-off signal; and a valve responsive to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant in the coolant line in response thereto. 21. An apparatus for detecting coolant leaks in a coolant line including a supply coolant line and a return coolant line, the apparatus comprising: a supply sensor that generates a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in the supply coolant line; a return sensor that generates a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in the return coolant line; a processor that determines whether a leak condition exists for a finite time period utilizing the first and second signals and that, responsive to a determination that the leak condition exists the finite time period, generates a valve shut-off signal; and a valve responsive to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant in the coolant line in response thereto; wherein the processor is adapted to detect one of the supply flow rate and the return flow rate crossing a threshold flow value and, if so, to generate a signal indicative of the detection. 22. An apparatus for detecting coolant leaks in a coolant line including a supply coolant line and a return coolant line, the apparatus comprising: a supply sensor that generates a first signal indicative of a supply flow rate of coolant in the supply coolant line; a return sensor that generates a second signal indicative of a return flow rate of coolant in the return coolant line; a processor that determines whether a leak condition exists for a finite time period utilizing the first and second signals and that, responsive to a determination that the leak condition exists the finite time period, generates a valve shut-off signal; and a valve responsive to the valve shut-off signal to shut off the flow of coolant in the coolant line in response thereto; a display coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is adapted to calculate a coolant flow rate from at least one of the first and second signals, and cause the display to display the calculated coolant flow rate. 