Wafers from plural non-vacuum multiple wafer carriers are loaded and unloaded in an atmospheric front end of a wafer processing machine and transferred to and from the high vacuum chamber of a transfer module of a wafer manufacturing cluster tool through a plurality of single wafer loadlocks. Preferably, with the wafers oriented horizontally throughout, wafers are moved inbound to the high vacuum atmosphere through one loadlock and moved outbound through another loadlock, the outbound loadlock also actively cooling the wafer. In both the atmospheric and vacuum environments, transfer arms load and unload the loadlocks as often as possible when the other loadlock or loadlocks are sealed, and transfer wafers within the environments when all loadlocks are sealed. Preferably, the wafers are actively cooled in the outbound loadlock. Preferably also, wafers are passed through a wafer aligner after being removed from a carrier and before placed in a loadlock. When wafers from one of the carriers are being moved to and from loadlocks, another of the carriers of processed wafers is being exchanged with a carrier of unprocessed wafers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transferring wafers between multi-wafer carriers and a high vacuum environment of a transfer chamber of a wafer processing cluster tool, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a first multi-wafer carrier in communication with a clean atmospheric environment adjacent to a robot transfer device that is located in an atmospheric front end of the tool; then transferring a first individual wafer with the robot transfer device from the first carrier and into a first single-wafer loadlock, operating as an inbound loadlock, that is open to the atmospheric environment and sealed from the high vacuum environment of the transfer chamber; then sealing the first loadlock from the atmospheric environment; then pumping the first loadlock to a vacuum pressure level; then opening the first loadlock to the high vacuum environment; then removing the first wafer from the first loadlock with a transfer arm located in the transfer chamber and placing the first wafer into a vacuum processing chamber when in communication with the high vacuum environment; then removing the first wafer with a transfer arm from a vacuum processing chamber when in communication with the high vacuum environment and placing the first wafer into the first or a second single-wafer loadlock, operating as an outbound loadlock, that is open to the high vacuum environment and sealed from the atmospheric environment; then sealing the outbound loadlock from the high vacuum environment; then venting the outbound loadlock to a pressure level of the atmospheric environment; then opening the outbound loadlock to the atmospheric environment; then transferring the first wafer from the outbound loadlock to the carrier. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: simultaneously with the first loadlock pumping step, transferring a second individual wafer with the robot transfer device between a carrier and the second loadlock with the second loadlock open to the atmospheric environment and sealed from the high vacuum environment of the transfer chamber. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: simultaneously with the first loadlock pumping step: transferring a second individual wafer with the robot transfer device between the first carrier and the second loadlock with the second loadlock open to the atmospheric environment and sealed from the high vacuum environment of the transfer chamber; and with a transfer arm located in the transfer chamber, transferring a third wafer through the transfer chamber from one vacuum processing chamber to another vacuum processing chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the outbound loadlock venting step includes the step of actively cooling the wafer in the outbound loadlock. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps: when the first and second loadlocks are sealed to both the atmospheric environment and the high vacuum environment; moving a wafer with the robot transfer device in the atmospheric environment and moving a wafer with the transfer arm in the high vacuum environment. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of removing the first carrier from adjacent the robot transfer device in the atmospheric environment and replacing it with a second multi-wafer carrier by positioning the second carrier in combination with the atmospheric environment adjacent the robot transfer device while wafers from a third carrier are being transferred to and from the loadlocks by the robot transfer device. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein: the step of transferring the first individual wafer from the first carrier and into the first single-wafer loadlock includes the step of transferring the wafer to and from an alignment station in the atmospheric environment. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein: the steps of the process are performed with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; the transfers of wafers into and the removal of wafers from the loadlocks are carried out with substantially horizontal movements of the wafers; and the method further includes the steps of moving the wafers vertically when within each of the loadlocks. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein: the steps of the process are performed with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; the transfers of wafers into and the removal of wafers in the high vacuum environment from the loadlocks and into and from the processing chambers are carried out with substantially horizontal movements of the wafers in a first horizontal plane; the transfers of wafers into and the removal of wafers in the atmospheric environment to and from the loadlocks are carried out with substantially horizontal movements of the wafers in a second horizontal plane spaced vertically from the first horizontal plane; and the method further includes the steps of moving the wafers vertically when within each of the loadlocks between the first and second horizontal planes. 10. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor wafer comprising the steps of: positioning a first carrier in communication with a clean atmospheric environment adjacent a robot transfer device that is located in an atmospheric front end of a wafer processing tool; then transferring a first individual wafer with the robot transfer device from the first carrier and into a first single-wafer loadlock that is open to the atmospheric environment and sealed from the high vacuum environment of the transfer chamber; then sealing the first loadlock from the atmospheric environment; then pumping the first loadlock to a vacuum pressure level; then opening the first loadlock to the high vacuum environment; then removing the first wafer from the first loadlock with a transfer arm located in the transfer chamber and placing the first wafer into a vacuum processing chamber when in communication with the high vacuum environment; then processing the wafer in the processing chamber; then removing the first wafer with a transfer arm from a vacuum processing chamber when in communication with the high vacuum environment and placing the first wafer into the first or a second single-wafer loadlock, operating as an outbound loadlock, that is open to the high vacuum environment and sealed from the atmospheric environment; then sealing the outbound loadlock from the high pressure environment; then venting the outbound loadlock to a pressure level of the atmospheric environment; then opening the outbound loadlock to the atmospheric environment; then transferring the first wafer from the second loadlock to the carrier. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein: the steps of transferring the wafer with the transfer arm in the transfer chamber, placing the wafer into the vacuum processing chamber, processing the wafer in the processing chamber and removing the wafer from the vacuum processing chamber include the steps of sequentially transferring the wafer with the transfer arm to and from a plurality of vacuum processing chambers and processing the wafer in each of the processing chambers. 12. A high vacuum wafer processing apparatus comprising: a plurality of vacuum processing chambers having a port therein for loading and unloading wafers individually there through; a high vacuum transfer chamber having a plurality of ports communicatable with the ports of the processing chambers; an atmospheric front end chamber having at least one carrier loading and unloading door; a plurality of single wafer loadlock chambers, each having an access opening therein between the high vacuum transfer chamber and the front end chamber, each loadlock having a vacuum side closure selectively openable between the opening and the high vacuum transfer chamber and an atmospheric side closure selectively openable between the opening and the front end chamber; a plurality of carrier stations in the front end chamber configured to support a multiple-wafer carrier thereat; a transfer arm in the high vacuum transfer chamber having a single-wafer engaging element thereon moveable to and from each of the processing chambers and loadlocks; and a wafer transfer device in the front end chamber moveable among the loadlocks and the carriers. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: a wafer aligner in the front end chamber; the wafer transfer device being also moveable to and from the wafer aligner. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: gas affecting structure in the front end chamber. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: a wafer cooler in at least one of the loadlocks situated to cause a flow of heat from the wafer to the cooler during venting of the loadlock. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein: the at least one loadlock includes an upwardly facing wafer support surface having the wafer cooler therein; and the wafer support including a set of at least three lift pins having a raised position whereat a wafer is situated for handoff between the support and the transfer arm or the transfer device and a lowered position whereat the wafer is in contact with the support surface. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: the loadlocks each include a wafer elevator moveable between a vacuum transfer position and an atmospheric transfer position; and the transfer arm, the ports of the processing chambers and the vacuum transfer positions of the loadlocks are located in a common horizontal plane. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: the loadlocks each include a wafer elevator moveable vertically between a vacuum transfer position and an atmospheric transfer position; and the transfer device is horizontally moveable in a horizontal plane that contains the atmospheric transfer positions of the loadlocks. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein: the carrier has a plurality of wafer storage positions vertically spaced in a vertical stack therein; the carrier stations each include a carrier elevator operable to move a selected one of the plurality of wafer storage positions into the horizontal plane; and the transfer device is horizontally moveable in the horizontal plane between the atmospheric transfer positions of the loadlocks and the selected one of the storage positions. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein: the carrier has a plurality of wafer storage positions vertically spaced in a vertical stack therein; the transfer device being vertically moveable between the horizontal plane to the level of a selected one of the storage positions. 21. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: the single wafer loadlock chambers, when closed to the atmospheric and high vacuum chambers, enclosing an evacuable volume therein substantially less than the volume required to contain a multiple wafer carrier. 22. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: the single wafer loadlock chambers are of configured to support a wafer in a plane with the closures thereof configured for the transfer of wafers into and out of the chamber thereof in a direction perpendicular to the plane, whereby, when the plane is horizontal, the loadlock chambers are of an over-under type. 23. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: the apparatus includes a high vacuum back end portion that includes the plurality of vacuum processing chambers and the high vacuum transfer chamber bounded by walls separating the a vacuum environment within the back end from an external environment; and the single wafer loadlock chambers are mounted in a wall of the back end with one closure thereof in on the vacuum environment side of the wall and one closure on the side of the wall opposite the vacuum environment. 