A semiconductor wafer analysis system and method. In various embodiments, methods and systems are described for inspection and review of semiconductor wafers. Wafer inverters are provided, and inspection data is gathered for both the front and back sides of the wafers. The wafer inverters are also available at wafer review stations so that both the front and back sides of the wafers can be reviewed with a microscope.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for computer controlled analysis of semiconductor wafers, comprising the steps of: laser scanning a front side of a wafer; transmitting front side inspection data to a control computer, the front side inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; inverting the wafer, whereby a back side of the wafer is exposed for laser scanning; laser scanning the back side of the wafer; transmitting back side inspection data to a control computer, the back side inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; and selecting a wafer to analyze as a function of a predetermined reflected laser characteristic in the inspection data. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: moving the wafer from a first laser inspection station that laser scans the front side to a second laser scanning station that laser scans the back side; and inverting the wafer after laser scanning the back side. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: moving the wafer from a first laser inspection station that laser scans the back side to a second laser scanning station that laser scans the front side; and inverting the wafer after laser scanning the back side. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (a) moving a cassette containing a plurality of wafers to a first inspection station that laser scans the front side; (b) removing a selected one of the wafers from the cassette; (c) replacing the wafer in the cassette after laser scanning the front side; repeating steps (a)-(c) until front sides the wafers have been laser scanned; (d) moving the cassette to a second inspection station that laser scans the back side of a wafer; (e) removing a selected one of the wafers from the cassette; (f) inverting the wafer after laser scanning the back side; (g) replacing the wafer in the cassette after laser scanning the back side; and repeating steps (d)-(f) until back sides of the wafers have been laser scanned. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein an argon ion laser is used to scan the wafer. 6. The method of claim 1, after the step the selecting a wafer, further including the steps of: moving the selected wafer to a microscope review station; downloading the inspection data of the selected wafer to the microscope review station; and positioning the wafer via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the inspection data. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein an argon ion laser is used to scan the wafer. 8. A method for analysis of semiconductor wafers, comprising the steps of: laser scanning a front side of a wafer; transmitting front side inspection data to a control computer, the front side inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; inverting the wafer, whereby a back side of the wafer is exposed for laser scanning; laser scanning the back side of the wafer; transmitting back side inspection data to a control computer, the back side inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; inverting the wafer after laser scanning the back side; selecting a wafer to analyze as a function of a predetermined reflected laser characteristic in the inspection data; moving the selected wafer to a microscope review station; downloading the front side inspection data of the selected wafer to the microscope review station; positioning the wafer via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the front side inspection data; inverting the wafer, whereby a back side of the wafer is exposed for review; downloading the back side inspection data to the microscope review station; and positioning the selected wafer via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the back side inspection data. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: moving the wafer from a first laser inspection station that laser scans the front side to a second laser scanning station that laser scans the back side; and moving the wafer from a first microscope review station for review of the front side to a second microscope review station for review of the back side. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: moving the wafer from a first laser inspection station that laser scans the back side to a second laser scanning station that laser scans the front side; and moving the wafer from a first microscope review station for review of the front side to a second microscope review station for review of the back side. 11. A method for analysis of semiconductor wafers, comprising the steps of: moving a cassette containing a plurality of wafers to a first inspection station that laser scans the front side; laser scanning front sides of the wafers; transmitting front side inspection data to a control computer, the front side inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; inverting the wafers, whereby back sides of the wafers are exposed for laser scanning; laser scanning the back sides of the wafers; transmitting back side inspection data to a control computer, the front side inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; inverting the wafers after laser scanning the back sides and replacing the wafers in the cassette; moving the cassette of wafers to a microscope review station; downloading the front side inspection data to the microscope review station; selecting a wafer to analyze as a function of a predetermined reflected laser characteristic in the inspection data: positioning the selected wafers via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the front side inspection data; inverting the wafers, whereby back sides of the wafer are exposed for review; downloading the back side inspection data to the microscope review station; and positioning the selected wafers via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the back side inspection data. 12. A laser inspection system, comprising: a robotic arm arranged to retrieve a wafer from a cassette; a wafer inverter arranged to receive a wafer from the robotic arm; a wafer transfer mechanism arranged to receive the wafer from the wafer inverter and move the wafer; an inspection station including a laser and a camera, the inspection station arranged to receive the wafer from the wafer transfer mechanism, direct laser light at the wafer, generate inspection data and capture an image of the laser light reflected from the wafer with the camera, the inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; transmitting the inspection data to a control computer; and means for selecting a wafer to analyze as a function of a predetermined reflected laser characteristic in the inspection data. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the system further includes: means for downloading the inspection data of the wafer to a microscope review station; and means for positioning the wafer via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the inspection data. 14. A semiconductor wafer analysis system arranged to analyze cassettes of wafers, comprising: a manufacturing control system; a first laser inspection station coupled to the control system, and arranged to laser scan the wafers in cassettes and generate first laser inspection data, the inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; a second laser inspection station coupled to the control system and arranged to laser scan the wafers in the cassettes and generate second laser inspection data, the inspection data including wafer coordinates at which reflected laser light has a certain characteristic; a first wafer inverter configured with the second laser inspection station and arranged to flip a wafer to be scanned by the second laser inspection station, whereby a backside of the wafer is exposed for laser scanning; transmitting inspection data to the control system; and means for selecting a wafer to analyze as a function of a predetermined reflected laser characteristic in the inspection data. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising: a first review station coupled to the control system and equipped with a microscope; a second review station coupled to the control system and equipped with a microscope; and a second wafer inverter configured with the second review station and arranged to flip a wafer to be reviewed with the microscope of the second review station, whereby the backside of the wafer is exposed for viewing with the microscope. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the second review station is further configured with: a robotic arm arranged to retrieve a wafer from a cassette, and the second wafer inverter being arranged to receive the wafer from the robotic arm; a stage; and a wafer transfer mechanism arranged to receive the wafer from the wafer inverter and move the wafer to the stage. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the second laser inspection station is further configured with: a robotic arm arranged to retrieve a wafer from a cassette, and the first wafer inverter being arranged to receive the wafer from the robotic arm; a stage; and a wafer transfer mechanism arranged to receive the wafer from the wafer inverter and move the wafer to the stage. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the system further includes: means for downloading the inspection data of the wafer to a microscope review station; and means for positioning the wafer via the wafer coordinates under the microscope at the defect positions indicated by the inspection data. 