A method and apparatus for controlling and providing force feedback using an interface device manipulated by a user. A microprocessor is provided local to the interface device and reads sensor data from sensors that describes the position and/or other information about a user object moved by the user, such as a joystick. The microprocessor controls actuators to provide forces on the user object and provides the sensor data to a host computer that is coupled to the interface device. The host computer sends high level host commands to the local microprocessor, and the microprocessor independently implements a local reflex process based on the high level command to provide force values to the actuators using sensor data and other parameters. A provided host command protocol includes a variety of different types of host commands and associated command parameters. By providing a relatively small set of high level host commands and parameters which are translated into a panoply of forces, the protocol further shifts the computational burden from the host computer to the local microprocessor and allows a software developer to easily create force feedback applications.
Claims What is claimed is:: 1. A force feedback interface device manipulated by a user and communicating with a host computer implementing a graphical environment, said host computer updating said graphical environment in response to input signals, said force feedback interface device comprising: a microprocessor, separate from said host computer, communicating with said host computer via a communication bus by receiving a texture host command from said host computer and implementing said texture host command in a force process, and by relaying said input signals to said host computer wherein said host computer updates a parallel execution of said graphical environment in response to said input signals, and wherein said texture host command specifies a text force sensation, said texture host command including: a command identifier identifying said texture force sensation to be output, wherein said microprocessor runs instructions in a force process allowing said microprocessor to process said command identifier, said texture force sensation including a plurality of forces, each of said plurality of forces being correlated with a different spatial location in said graphical environment; and at least one command parameter associated with said command identifier and characterizing said torture force sensation commanded by said texture host command; a user object movable in a degree of freedom by a user and being physically contacted by said user; an actuator electrically coupled to said microprocessor and outputting said plurality of forces to said user in accordance with a processor force command from said microprocessor, said processor force command being derived from at least one of said texture host command, said force process, and a position or mot on of said user object, wherein said plurality of forces output by said actuator implements at least in part said texture force sensation characterized by said at least one command parameter; and a sensor electrically coupled to said microprocessor and detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and outputting said input signals to said microprocessor, said input signals including information representative of said motion of said user object. 2. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said at least one command parameter includes a magnitude parameter controlling a magnitude of said texture force sensation output by said actuator. 3. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 2 wherein said host computer causes a sound to be output from an audio device coupled to said host computer, wherein said sound has a magnitude directly proportional to said magnitude of said texture force sensation. 4. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 2 wherein said magnitude is specified as a percentage of a maximum force output magnitude of said actuator. 5. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said at least one command parameter includes a density parameter controlling a density of spatial features for said texture force sensation. 6. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said at least one command parameter includes a style parameter controlling and orientation of said texture sensation in said graphical environment. 7. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said command parameter is a spatial parameter indicating a distance between each force of said plurality of forces output for said texture command. 8. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a transmission system coupled between said user object and said actuator, wherein said transmission system includes a plurality of slotted yokes. 9. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator is driven at least in part by power received over said communication bus, wherein said communication bus is a USB bus. 10. A method for providing force feedback for a force feedback interface device that is implemented, at least in part, by a local microprocessor and outputs forces to a user of said interface device and which communicates with a separate host computer system, said host computer system implementing a graphical environment coordinated and in parallel with said output of forces, the method comprising: receiving a texture host command from said separate host computer system, said host command including at least one command parameter, and parsing said texture host command and storing force parameters derived from said host command and said at least one command parameter; receiving sensor data from sensors describing a motion of a user object of said interface device and providing position information based on said sensor data to said host computer stem; and computing a force value based on said texture host command and said at least one parameter and outputting a force to said user of said force feedback interface device utilizing actuators coupled to said force feedback interface device, wherein said force corresponds to said force value, said force being one of a plurality of forces included in a texture force sensation, wherein each of said plurality of forces is correlated with a different spatial location in said graphical environment, wherein said plurality of forces included in said tee force sensation have a magnitude and spacing derived from said texture host command. 11. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein a set of force parameter locations for each host command which can be sent by said host computer are stored in a memory device, and wherein said force parameters for said received host command are written in said force parameter locations corresponding to said received host command. 12. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein said forces included in said texture force sensation have an orientation derived from said texture host command. 13. A method as recited in claim 10 wherein said at least one command parameter includes a density parameter controlling a density of said forces in said texture force sensation. 14. A method as recited in claim 10 further comprising receiving input data from a button provided on said interface device and providing said input data to said host computer system. 15. A force feedback interface device manipulated by a user and communicating with a host computer implementing a graphical environment, said host computer updating said graphical environment in response to input signals, said force feedback interface device comprising: a microprocessor, separate from said host computer, communicating with said host computer via a communication bus by receiving a texture host command from said host computer and implementing said texture host command in a force process, and by relaying said input signals to said host computer wherein said host computer updates a parallel execution of said graphical environment in response to said input signals, and wherein said tenure host command specifies a texture force sensation, said texture host command identifying said texture force sensation to be output, wherein said microprocessor user instructions allowing said microprocessor to process said texture host command, said texture force sensation including a plurality of forces, each of said forces being correlated with a different spatial location in said graphical environment; a user object movable in a degree of freedom by a user and being physically contacted by said user; an actuator electrically coupled to said microprocessor and outputting said plurality of forces in said texture host command to said user in accordance with a processor signal from said microprocessor, said processor signal being derived from at least one of said texture host command and a position or motion of said user object, wherein said plurality of forces output by said actuator implement said texture force sensation, wherein said plurality of forces output for said texture host command have a magnitude and a spacing derived from said texture host command; and a sensor electrically coupled to said microprocessor and detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and outputting said input signals to said microprocessor, said input signals including information representative of said motion of said user object. 