This invention relates to a method and an apparatus for positioning, orientation and insertion of a medical device. The apparatus comprising a first pentagonal mechanism which offers two degrees of freedom, and a second pentagonal mechanism which offers three degrees of freedom of motion. The two are aligned along a first axis so as to permit them to hold an instrument driving means. The instrument driving means is adapted to hold a medical instrument and adapted to permit said instrument to move along and rotate on its own axis. The instrument driving means offers another two degrees of freedom of motion. The apparatus provides a total of six degrees of freedom.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the positioning and orientating of a medical instrument, comprising; a first mechanism having two degrees of freedom and consisting of first, second, third and fourth bars linked sequentially, the first mechanism rotationally connected at the first and fourth bars to a base by first and second actuated driven joints, a second mechanism having one degree of freedom more than the first mechanism and consisting of fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth bars linked sequentially, the second mechanism rotationally connected at the fifth and eighth bars to said base by third and fourth actuated driven joints, an instrument driving means, said instrument driving means being held by said first and second mechanisms, the instrument driving means adapted to hold a medical instrument and adapted to drive said instrument to move along its own axis and to rotate on its own axis where, the first bar is connected to the first actuated driven joint at one end, and by a first revolute joint to the second bar at the other end; the second bar is connected to the first bar at one end, and by a second revolute joint to the third bar at the other end; the third bar is connected to the second bar at one end, and by a third revolute joint to the fourth bar at the other end; the fourth bar is connected to the third bar at one end, and to the second actuated driven joint at the other end; the fifth bar is connected to the third actuated driven joint at one end, and by a first universal joint to the sixth bar at the other end; the sixth bar is connected to the fifth bar at one end, and by a fourth revolute joint to the seventh bar at the other end; the seventh bar is connected to the sixth bar at one end, and by a second universal joint to the fourth bar at the other end; and the eighth bar is connected to the seventh bar at one end, and to the fourth actuated driven joint at the other end. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 where; the first, second, third and fourth actuated driven joints are revolute joints. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 where said instrument driving means is held by said first mechanism by a first connection means, and by said second mechanism by a second connection means. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 where the first connection means is two revolute joints. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 where the second connection means is a spherical joint. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 where the first connection means is a universal joint. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 where the first actuated driven joint is driven by a first driving means, the second actuated driven joint is driven by a second driving means, the first and the second driving means permit movement of the first mechanism so as to position the first connection means in a given position in a xy plane, the third actuated driven joint is driven by a third driving means and the fourth actuated driven joint is driven by a fourth driving means, the third and the fourth driving means permit movement of the second mechanism so as to position the second connection means in a given position in the xy plane. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising the medical instrument, wherein the first connection means attaches the medical instrument to one of the four bars of the first mechanism that is not connected to the base by respective actuated driven joints, and the second connection means attaches the medical instrument to one of the four bars of the second mechanism that is not connected to the base by respective actuated driven joints. 9. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising the medical instrument, wherein the first connection means attaches the medical instrument to one of the four bars of the first mechanism other than the two bars that are respectively attached to the base by the first and second actuated driven joints and the second connection means attaches the medical instrument to one of the four bars of the second mechanism other than the two bars that are respectively attached to the base by the third and fourth actuated driven joints. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 5, or 7 where the instrument driving means comprises; a holding means, a fifth driving means to move said holding means in the direction of the axis of said instrument, a sixth driving means to rotate said instrument about said instrument's axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 where said instrument is a laser beam delivering device. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 where said instrument is a needle. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein one or more of: the instrument driving means, and the actuated driven joints rotationally connecting the first and second mechanisms to the base, are computer controlled; or the instrument driving means, and the actuated driven joints rotationally connecting the first and second mechanisms to the base, are jointly computer controlled. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the size of the four sequentially linked bars of the first and second mechanisms are selected to control a workspace. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising the medical instrument. 