A spot welding apparatus having a welding gun with movable and fixed electrodes carried on an articulating wrist, the apparatus comprising: a) a robotically actuated articulating wrist carrying the gun for movement to and from a welding position for a workpiece; b) a primary cylinder assembly connecting the wrist to the movable electrode of the gun for imposing pressure by such movable electrode to the workpiece and to the fixed electrode during a welding stroke toward the workpiece; and c) a fixing cylinder assembly connecting the wrist to the fixed electrode, the fixing cylinder assembly having (i) a fixing cylinder housing with a movable fixing piston therein connected to the fixed electrode of the welding gun and having a fixing piston stop, (ii) a primary balancing spring acting between the fixing cylinder housing and the movable fixing piston to carry the weight of the gun, (iii) structure for introducing a fixing air pressure into the fixing cylinder housing to urge the fixing piston to a position locked against the fixing piston stop, and (iv) a secondary modulating device acting between the fixed electrode of the gun and the fixing cylinder housing to dampen vibratory movement of the gun upon release of the fixing air pressure for initiation of the welding stroke.
Claims We claim: 1. A spot welding apparatus having a welding gun with movable and fixed electrodes carried on an articulating wrist, the apparatus comprising: a) a robotically actuated articulating wrist carrying said gun for movement to and from a welding position for a workpiece; b) a primary cylinder assembly connecting said wrist to the movable electrode of the gun for imposing pressure by such movable electrode to the workpiece and to the fixed electrode during a welding stroke toward the workpiece; and c) a fixing cylinder assembly connecting said wrist to the fixed electrode, the fixing cylinder assembly having (i) a fixing cylinder housing having a movable fixing piston therein connected to the fixed electrode of said welding gun and having a fixing piston stop, a primary balancing spring acting between the fixing cylinder housing and the movable fixing piston to carry the weight of said gun, (ii) structure means for introducing a fixing air pressure into said fixing cylinder housing chamber to urge the fixing piston to a position locked against said fixing piston stop, and (iii) a secondary modulating device acting between the fixed electrode of said gun and said fixing cylinder housing to dampen vibratory movement of said gun upon release of said fixing air pressure for initiation of the welding stroke. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1, in which said secondary modulating device comprises a spring having a predetermined spring force matched to the spring force of said primary balancing spring to thereby effect said modulation. 3. The apparatus as in claim 1, in which said secondary modulating device comprises: a) a secondary modulating cylinder having a modulating piston slidable therein, a modulating piston stop, and an air chamber normally biasing the modulating piston away from said modulating piston stop, said secondary cylinder housing being connected to said gun to move therewith; and b) a modulating spring acting between the modulating piston and the fixing stop or cylinder housing to urge the modulating piston against the cushion of air that may be contained between the modulating piston housing and the modulating piston to thereby dampen any vibratory movement of the gun upon release of air pressure in said primary cylinder housing chamber. 4. The apparatus as in claim 1, in which said vibratory movement is caused by the counteraction of the gun weight and momentum against the primary spring force occurring upon release of air pressure in the primary cylinder housing. 5. The apparatus as in claim 3, in which the air in said modulating cylinder housing is varied to adjust the net spring force applied to the gun to balance the gun weight. 6. The apparatus as in claim 3, in which said primary spring force is in the range of 0-200 lbs. and said secondary spring force is in the range of 0-100 lbs. 7. The apparatus as in claim 6, in which the primary air pressure is in the range of 60-100 psi and the secondary air pressure is in the range of 40-100 psi. 8. The apparatus as in claim 1, in which upon completion of the welding stroke air pressure is restored to the primary cylinder housing to move the movable electrode away from the workpiece and strip the electrode free from the spot weld. 9. The apparatus as in claim 8, in which said stripping force is in the range of 200-250 lbs. (about 250 pounds). 10. The apparatus as in claim 1, in which said gun is of the pivoting pinch electrode type wherein the welding stroke moving the movable electrode to the workpiece is across a travel distance of about plus or minus 25 mm. 