An automated access device for lifting and placing back the end cover plates of lead-frame magazine during IC packaging process. It includes: (a) a 3-axis robotic arm a plurality of single-axis robots, adapted to carry out a positioning by horizontal and vertical motions; (b) an end cover plate temporary storage shelf, adapted to temporarily store a plurality of end cover plates removed from the magazine; (c) a guiding mechanism, adapted to provide positioning assistance of the end cover plates; and a gripper mechanism, installed in each the robotic arm. The gripper mechanism includes: (i) a suction disc; (ii) a first driver adapted to drive the suction disc to adhere to the end cover plates (iii) a second driver adapted to adjust the position of the suction disc; and (iii) a fixture cylinder having a first gripper adapted to position and fix the end cover plates to assure correct positioning and prevent the end cover plates from dropping during the motion of the robotic arm.
Claims What claimed is: 1. An automated access device for use with lead-frame magazine end cover plates during IC packaging process, to automatically load and unload as well as temporarily store the end cover plates of the magazine loaded with lead-frames, comprising: a 3-axis robotic arm and a plurality of single-axis robots, adapted to carry out a positioning by horizontal and vertical motions; an end cover plate temporary storage shelf, adapted to temporarily store a plurality of end cover plates removed from the magazine; a guiding mechanism, adapted to provide positioning assistance in placing the end cover plate in said end cover plate temporary storage shelf or back to said magazine; a gripper mechanism, installed in said robotic arm for removing and putting back to said end cover plate with respect to said magazine, said gripper mechanism comprising: a suction disc; a first driver adapted to drive said suction disc to adhere to said end cover plates so as to separate them from said magazine, and to return said end cover plates back to said magazine through a positioning assistance of said guiding mechanism; a second driver adapted to adjust a position of the suction disc so as to adapt to the different directions of said end cover plates; and a fixture cylinder having a first gripper adapted to position and fix said end cover plates to assure correct positioning and prevent the end cover plates from dropping during the motion of said robotic arm. 2. An automated access device for use with lead-frame magazine end cover plates during IC packaging process of claim 1, wherein said end cover plate temporary storage shelf comprises a plurality of temporary storage lattices arranged in a stepped manner so as to allow said end cover plates to partially overlap one another when they are stored in the temporary storage space and reduce the overall height required of the temporary storage space. 3. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 2, wherein each of said temporary storage lattice of said end cover plates has a positioning placing block used to guide and position said end cover plates, and has a plane making a perpendicular angle with and protruded from and fixed to said temporary storage lattice, and said plane forms together with a side frame of said temporary storage lattice, a position which can exactly match the sides of said end cover plates in order to assist said gripper mechanism to precisely take out or place said end cover plates in said temporary storage lattice. 4. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 3, wherein said end cover plate temporary storage shelf uses a fixed corner of a side of said end cover plates as a positioning reference location and to set up said positioning placing block based on said positioning reference location to accept different types of said end cover plates of said magazines. 5. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 1, wherein the positioning of the horizontal motion of said 3-axis robotic arm is carried out by a plurality of single-axis robots in x-axis and y-axis directions in Cartesian coordinates, and the positioning of the vertical motion is carried out by a single-axis robot in z-axis direction in Cartesian coordinates. 6. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 1, wherein the positioning of the horizontal motion of said 3-axis robotic arm is carried out by a plurality of single-axis robots in radial and angular directions in cylindrical coordinates, and the positioning mechanism of the vertical motion is a single-axis robot in z-axis direction in cylindrical coordinates. 7. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 6, wherein said first driver and said fixture cylinder are fixed to the single-axis robot in z-direction, said second driver is connected to said first driver while said suction disc is connected to said second driver; the function of said first driver is to drive said second driver and said suction disc to carry out motion in vertical direction to adhere said end cover plates in order to separate them from a magazine main body and to guide them into said gripper of said fixture cylinder, then, said fixture cylinder tightly clips and fixes said end cover plates to avoid dropping during the course of motion of said robotic arm; also to fix said end cover plates by the use of said fixture cylinder to keep it stable in assuring positioning without shaking, said first driver drives said suction disc adhered with said end cover plates, through the positioning assistance of said guiding mechanism, to push said end cover plates to cover back to said magazine main body; while said second driver carries out horizontal motion in order to adjust the position of said suction disc to adapt to said end cover plates located at the front or rear end of said magazine main body. 8. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 1 wherein said first driver and said second driver can be constituted by transmission mechanisms such as a cylinder or a screw bolt with a driving motor. 9. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 1 wherein said fixture cylinder possesses a set of grippers used to clip said end cover plates to assure precise positioning and to prevent said end cover plates from dropping during the motion of said robotic arm. 10. An automated access device of magazines' end cover plates of IC packaging process of claim 1 wherein said suction disc make use of the way of vacuum air expiration to adhere flexible adhering elements of said end cover plates. 