A system and method for cleaning probe pins on a probe card used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof. A ceramic cleaning wafer is utilized to clean the probe pins without having to remove the probe card from a production line. The same apparatus used to test production wafers also handles the cleaning wafer during a probe cleaning cycle. During operation of the cleaning cycle, the cleaning wafer is placed in a manual load tray, which inserts the cleaning wafer into a prober machine. The cleaning wafer is transported by a robotic trolley to a prealign stage area where the cleaning wafer is aligned and centered. The cleaning wafer is then placed on a support device. The support device and cleaning wafer are positioned under a pneumatic sensor and profiled to determine wafer planarity. The support device and cleaning wafer are then positioned underneath the probe pins on the probe card to be cleaned. Thereafter, the z-axis distance between the probe pins and the surface of the cleaning wafer is decreased such that the probe pins contact the cleaning wafer, thereby removing debris from the probe pins. The cleaning wafer is then removed from the support device when cleaning of the probe pins has been completed.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by United States Letters Patent is: 1. A system for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the system comprising: a probe device having a plurality of probe pins on one side thereof; a cleaning wafer having an abrasive surface capable of removing unwanted debris from the probe pins, the cleaning wafer capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation energy therethrough; and a structure for supporting and moving the cleaning wafer which enables contact of the cleaning wafer with the probe pins to remove debris from the probe pins. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer is made from a ceramic material. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the ceramic material is selected from the is group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer blocks transmission of infrared light radiation therethrough. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer has a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer has a substantially circular shape. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer has a thickness in a range from about 10 mil to about 50 mil. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the surface of the cleaning wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the cleaning wafer has metal traces deposited on a surface thereof. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the metal traces are gold traces. 11. A system for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the system comprising: a probe device having a plurality of probe pins on one side thereof; a cleaning wafer having an abrasive surface capable of removing unwanted debris from the probe pins, the cleaning wafer capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation therethrough; a tray for loading the cleaning wafer into the system; a prealign stage area that is capable of aligning and centering the cleaning wafer; a robotic trolley for transporting the cleaning wafer to various stages in the system; and a vertically movable support device for holding the cleaning wafer and bringing the cleaning wafer into contact with the probe pins to remove debris from the probe pins. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the cleaning wafer is made from a ceramic material. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the ceramic material is selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the cleaning wafer blocks transmission of infrared light radiation therethrough. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the cleaning wafer has a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the probe device includes a probe card having the plurality of probe pins thereon. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the prealign stage area includes a charge-coupled device camera array with optical character recognition. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the robotic trolley includes a robotic arm. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the support device includes a vacuum chuck capable of holding the cleaning wafer in position under the probe card. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the vacuum chuck includes a chuck top for supporting the cleaning wafer under the probe card, and a z-stage section interposed between the chuck top and a forcer section. 21. The system of claim 11, wherein the system is a computer-controlled automated system. 22. A system for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the system comprising: a probe device having a plurality of probe pins on one side thereof; a cleaning wafer: composed of a ceramic material selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof; having an abrasive surface capable of removing unwanted debris from the probe pins, and having gold traces deposited on a surface thereof; and capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation energy therethrough; and a structure for supporting and moving the cleaning wafer which enables contact of the cleaning wafer with the probe pins to remove debris from the probe pins. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the cleaning wafer blocks transmission of infrared light radiation therethrough. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the cleaning wafer has a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof. 25. The system of claim 22, wherein the cleaning wafer has a substantially circular shape. 26. The system of claim 22, wherein the cleaning wafer has a thickness in a range from about 10 mil to about 50 mil. 27. The system of claim 22, wherein a portion of the abrasive surface of the cleaning wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the cleaning wafer is made from a ceramic material. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the ceramic material is selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the cleaning wafer has a thickness in a range from about 10 mil to about 50 mil. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein a portion of the surface of the abrasive cleaning wafer is made of an electrically conductive material. 32. The system of claim 28, wherein the cleaning wafer has metal traces deposited on a surface thereof. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the metal traces are gold traces. 34. A system for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the system comprising: a probe device having a plurality of probe pins on one side thereof; a cleaning wafer: having an abrasive surface capable of removing unwanted debris from the probe pins, the cleaning wafer capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation energy including infrared light radiation therethrough; having a substantially circular shape; and having a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof; a structure for supporting and moving the cleaning wafer which enables contact of the cleaning wafer with the probe pins to remove debris from the probe pins. 35. A system for cleaning probes used in testing a semiconductor device during fabrication thereof, the system comprising: a probe device including a probe card having the plurality of probe pins thereon; a cleaning wafer: composed of a ceramic material is selected from the group consisting of alumina, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, and mixtures thereof; and having an abrasive surface capable of removing unwanted debris from the probe pins, the cleaning wafer capable of blocking transmission of nonionizing electromagnetic radiation therethrough; a tray for loading the cleaning wafer into the system; a prealign stage area that is capable of aligning and centering the cleaning wafer; a robotic trolley for transporting the cleaning wafer to various stages in the system; and a vertically movable support device including a vacuum chuck for holding the cleaning wafer in position under the probe card and bringing the cleaning wafer into contact with the probe pins to remove debris from the probe pins, said vacuum chuck including a chuck top for supporting the cleaning wafer under the probe card, and a z-stage section interposed between the chuck top and a forcer section. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the cleaning wafer blocks transmission of infrared light radiation therethrough. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein the cleaning wafer has a notch formed in an outer periphery thereof. 38. The system of claim 35, wherein the prealign stage area includes a charge-coupled device camera array with optical character recognition. 39. The system of claim 35, wherein the robotic trolley includes a robotic arm. 40. The system of claim 35, wherein the system is a computer-controlled automated system. 