A three degree-of-freedom robotic manipulator is constructed from three rotary drives. The rotary drive consists of a relatively small diameter cylindrical driving member coupled to a larger diameter cylindrical driven member. The driven member of a second rotary drive is mounted perpendicularly to the driven member of a first drive. The driven member of a third drive is mounted to the periphery of the driven member of the second drive with its axis of rotation parallel to the driven member of the second drive. The driving member of the third drive is located with its axis of rotation coincident with the axis of rotation of the driven member of the second drive. Motors powering the second and third driving members are mounted to the driven member of the first drive roughly centered over its axis of rotation. An extension arm for mounting the end effector is fixed to the driven member of the third drive. This arrangement reduces the number of required components and minimizes motor movement to reduce inertia. Performance is higher and the cost is reduced over conventional designs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A three degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; first driving means coupled to said first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a second driven member rotatably mounted to said first driven member for rotating about a second driven axis, with said second driven axis generally perpendicular to said first driven axis; a second driving means coupled to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis; a third driven member rotatably mounted in close proximity to said second driven member for rotating about a third driven axis; third driving means coupled at a drive point to said third driven member for rotating said third driven member about said third driven axis; and wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said second driven axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, said first driven member comprising a cylindrical body, said second driven member and said third driven member each comprising a generally cylindrical body. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first driving means is fixedly secured to a stationary member. 4. A three degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a stationary stand; a first generally cylindrical driven member rotatably mounted to said stand for rotation about a first driven axis; first drive means mounted to said stand and adjacently disposed to said first cylindrical driven member for controllably rotating said first cylindrical driven member about said first driven axis; a support member mounted to said first cylindrical driven member; a second generally cylindrical driven member rotatably mounted to said support member for rotation about a second driven axis, wherein said first driven axis and said second driven axis are generally perpendicular; second drive means mounted to said support member and adjacently disposed to said second cylindrical driven member for controllably rotating said second cylindrical driven member about said second driven axis; a third generally cylindrical driven member rotatably mounted in close proximity to said second driven member for rotation about a third driven axis; and a third drive means mounted to said support member and adjacently disposed to said third cylindrical driven member for controllably rotating said third cylindrical driven member about said third driven axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, said third drive means comprising a driver member which rotates about a driver axis and which is coupled to said third cylindrical driver member in order to controllably rotate said third cylindrical driver member, and wherein said driver axis is generally coincident with said second driven axis. 6. A three degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a stationary stand supporting a first rotary drive; said first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driven member and a generally cylindrical first driver member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; a supporting member fixed to a flat on said first driven member; a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a generally cylindrical second driver member, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel, and wherein said second driver member and said second driven member are rotatably mounted to said supporting member with said second driven axis generally perpendicular to said first driven axis; a third rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical third driven member and a generally cylindrical third driver member, said third driver member being rotatable about a third driver axis and coupled to said third driven member whereby rotation of said third driver member rotates said third driven member about a third driven axis, said third driver axis and said third driven axis being generally parallel, and wherein the third member is rotatably mounted in close proximity to the second driven member for rotation about said third driven axis, said second driven axis and said third driven axis being offset and generally parallel, and said third driver axis being generally coincident with said second driven axis; and wherein said first driver member is coupled to said first driven member by a first cable means, said second driver member is coupled to said second driven member by a cable means, and said third driver member is coupled to said third driven member by a cable means. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 with an arm fixedly secured to said third driven member. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 in which the first, second, and third driver members each receive a respective rotary input from a respective first, second, and third mechanical rotary power source. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein a non-rotating component of said first mechanical rotary power source is mounted to said stand, and wherein a non-rotating component of said second and of said third mechanical rotary power sources is mounted to said support member. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein a rotating component of said first mechanical rotary power source is rotatably mounted to said stand, and wherein a rotating component of said second and of said third mechanical rotary power sources is rotatably mounted to said support member. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first driven axis passes through the bodies of said second and of said third mechanical rotary power sources. 12. A three degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a stationary stand supporting a first rotary drive; said first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driven member and a generally cylindrical first driver member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; a supporting member fixed to a flat on said first driven member; a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a generally cylindrical second driver member, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel, and wherein said second driver member and said second driven member are rotatably mounted to said supporting member with said second driven axis generally perpendicular to said first driven axis; a third rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical third driven member and a generally cylindrical third driver member, said third driver member being rotatable about a third driver axis and coupled to said third driven member whereby rotation of said third driver member rotates said third driven member about a third driven axis, said third driver axis and said third driven axis being generally parallel, and wherein the third driven member is rotatably mounted in close proximity to the second driven member for rotation about said third driven axis, said second driven axis and said third driven axis being offset and generally parallel, and said third driver axis being generally coincident with said second driven axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 with an arm fixedly secured to said third driven member. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 in which the first, second, and third driver members each receive a respective rotary input from a respective first, second, and third mechanical rotary power source. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein a non-rotating component of said first mechanical rotary power source is mounted to said stand, and wherein a non-rotating component of said second and of said third mechanical rotary power sources is mounted to said support member. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein a rotating component of said first mechanical rotary power source is rotatably mounted to said stand, and wherein a rotating component of said second and of said third mechanical rotary power sources is rotatably mounted to said support member. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said first driven axis passes through the bodies of said second and of said third mechanical rotary power sources. 18. A three degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus, comprising: a stationary stand supporting a first rotary drive; said first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driver member and a generally cylindrical first driven member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; a supporting member fixed to said first driver member; a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a generally cylindrical second driver member, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel, and wherein said second driver member and said second driven member are rotatably mounted to said supporting member with said second driver axis generally perpendicular to said first driver axis; a third rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical third driven member and a generally cylindrical third driver member, said third driver member being rotatable about a third driver axis and coupled to said third driven member whereby rotation of said third driver member rotates said third driven member about a third driven axis, said third driver axis and said third driven axis being generally parallel, and wherein the third driver member is rotatably mounted in close proximity to the second driver member for rotation about said third driver axis, said second driver axis and said third driver axis being offset and generally parallel, and said third driven axis being generally coincident with said second driver axis; a first measuring means coupled to said first driven member; a second measuring means coupled to said second driven member; and a third measuring means coupled to said third driven member. 