Target based machine vision useful for alignment of sensors and other objects affixed to structures, robots and the like. While addressed particularly to alignment of machine vision systems relative to structures, the techniques disclosed are useful with a multitude of different sensors and objects.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of aligning a member with an object, comprising the steps of: providing, in a computer, a data base of said object, said data base for providing a reference derived from the data base relating to a position of a surface portion of said object, positioning the member to be aligned in an approximate location with respect to the reference, providing an electro-optical means for determining a location of said member with respect to said reference, determining said location of said member with said electro-optical means, and using said location of said member and a location of said reference for generating instructions for a better alignment of the approximately aligned member. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference is a reference member located near said object. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said reference is physically positioned using said data base. 4. A method according to claim 2 wherein said reference is contacted by said member. 5. A method according to claim 2 wherein said reference is sensed by said member or a sensor incorporated therewith. 6. A method according to claim 2 wherein said reference is a physical object corresponding to said data base. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference is generated optically. 8. A method according to claim 1 further including automatically performing said alignment using said instructions. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determining step is performed automatically. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference is an object positioned in space which contains one or more special datums visible to said electro-optical sensor. 11. A method for aligning an electro-optical means relative to a data base of an object, a surface portion of which object is to be subsequently measured with said sensor, comprising the steps of: mounting said sensor in an approximate position to measure the surface portion of said object, placing a reference discernable by said sensor at a known position of the surface portion relative to said data base of the object, measuring a location of a datum of the reference with said sensor, and aligning said sensor to the location of the datum. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein said aligning step includes adjusting data which is provided by said sensor. 13. A method according to claim 11 wherein said aligning step includes adjusting a position or orientation of said sensor. 14. A method according to claim 11 wherein said sensor includes a TV camera. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein said camera forms an image of said datum. 16. A method according to claim 11 further including measuring at least one location of an object with said sensor, after said aligning of said sensor. 17. A method according to claim 11 further including providing a display of data from said sensor. 18. A method according to claim 11 further including aligning one or more additional sensors. 19. A method according to claim 11 further including providing a framework to mount said sensor, and relating said data base of the object to said framework. 20. A method according to claim 11 further including measuring said object. 21. Apparatus for aligning an electro-optical sensor relative to a data base of an object, a surface portion of which object is to be measured with said sensor, comprising: mounting means for positioning said sensor in an approximate position to measure the surface portion of said object, a datum discernable by said sensor, datum holding means for holding said datum at a known position of the surface portion relative to said data base, means for determining from a sensor output of said sensor, a location of said datum with respect to said sensor, computer means for combining said datum location as measured by said means for determining with the datum location of said data base of the object to provide a computer output indicative of a difference thereof, and means for generating alignment instructions from said computer output. 22. Apparatus for aligning a member with an object, comprising: an object data base in a computer, reference generating means for generating a reference derived from said data base indicative of a position of a surface portion of said object in said data base, positioning means for positioning a member to be aligned in an approximate location with respect to the reference, electro-optical means for determining a location of said member with respect to said reference, and computer means which uses said data base and the location of said member determined by said electro-optical means for generating instructions for a better aligning of the approximately aligned said member. 