An automated machine for attaching a suture to a surgical needle comprises a first apparatus located at a first predetermined location for sorting a plurality of randomly oriented needles and orienting each needle for automatic handling at a first predetermined location, each of the needles having a suture receiving opening formed therein. A second apparatus located at a second predetermined location is provided for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suture material to a definite length suture strand and for automatically inserting an end of the definite length suture strand into the suture receiving opening formed in the needle. Also provided is a third apparatus for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. An indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation at the first predetermined location and conveys the needle for sequential processing from the first to the second locations to form the needle-suture assembly.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A needle threading and swaging apparatus for attaching a suture to a surgical needle having a suture receiving opening formed therein, said apparatus comprising: (a) a first means located at a first location for sorting a plurality of needles and orienting each needle for automatic handling at a first predetermined location; (b) a second means located at a second predetermined location for automatically cutting an indefinite length of suturematerial to a definite length and automatically inserting said suture into said suture receiving opening formed in said needle; (c) a third means for swaging said needle to close said suture receiving opening about a free end of said suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly; and (d) indexing means for receiving each individual needle in a predetermined orientation at said first predetermined location and conveying said needle for sequential processing from said first to said second predetermined locations, said indexing means including multi-axis gripper means for retaining said needle in said predetermined oriention, and said multi-axis gripper means being movable between a first retracted position and a second extended position with respect to said indexing means, whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are automatically formed into a plurality of oriented needle and suture assemblies. 2. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said indexing means further includes a rotary dial means with said multi-axis gripper means positioned radially thereon, said rotary dial means rotatable about a central axis for indexing said multi-axis gripper means sequentially from said first, to said second, to said third, and to said fourth predetermined locations. 3. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said multi-axis gripper means includes a plurality of pin means for engaging said surgical needle, one of said plurality of pin means being retractable between a first engaging position for engaging said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaging position for relaxing said surgical needle. 4. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said first means for sorting comprises: (a) infeed means for randomly depositing a predetermined amount of needles upon a first conveyor means; (b) first means for obtaining an image of said needles deposited upon said first conveyor means, said means including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals; (c) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for a selected randomly positioned needle upon said first conveyor means; and (d) transfer means for removing said randomly positioned needle from said first conveyor means and positioning it upon a second conveyor means for conveyance thereof, wherein said transfer means grasps each of said selected needles in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data. 5. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said infeed means further includes means for singulating each of said predetermined number of needles prior to said deposition upon said first conveyor means, each of said singulated needles being deposited upon said first conveyor means in a spaced apart relation. 6. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said computer control means further includes a means for processing said positional and orientation data to obtain therefrom instructions for enabling said transfer means to grasp said selected randomly deposited needle in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data. 7. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said means for obtaining an image of said randomly deposited needles includes one or more video cameras. 8. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said singulating means further includes at least one reciprocating door means that alternates between a first and second position to split said predetermined amount of needles into first and second groups of needles, wherein said first group is deposited upon said first conveyor means when said reciprocating door means is in said first position, and said second group is deposited upon said first conveyor means when said reciprocating door means is in said second position. 9. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said transfer means includes a robot arm means for grasping each of said needles based upon said positional and orientation data received from said computer control means. 10. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said second conveyor means includes a plurality of carrier means each for receiving a respective needle from said transferring means, each respective carrier means having a means for engaging a respective needle transferred thereto. 11. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 wherein each of said engaging means includes a first fixed jaw and a second movable jaw for engaging a needle positioned therebetween by said transfer means. 12. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said carrier means further includes spring means for biasing said second movable jaw into engagement with said first fixed jaw to retain said needle positioned therebetween. 13. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said carrier means further includes means for retracting said second movable jaw from engagement with said fixed jaw for removing said needle positioned therebetween. 14. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said means for retracting said second movable jaw from engagement with said fixed jaw is a push rod for pushing said second movable jaw in opposition to said bias of said spring means. 15. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 further including a second means for obtaining a second video image of said randomly deposited needles, said second video image being processed by said computer control means for obtaining positional and orientation data of a selected randomly deposited needle, and a second transfer means for removing a randomly positioned needle from said first conveyor means and positioning it upon said second conveyor means for conveyance thereof, wherein said second transfer means grasps a needle based upon its respective positional and orientation data and transfers said needle to said second conveyor means when said computer control means determines that said first transfer means is unable to transfer said randomly deposited needle. 16. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 10 further including a first orienting blade means for orienting each of said needles positioned on their respective carrier means in a uniform direction. 17. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 16 further including a second orienting blade means for further orienting said needle within said first and second engagement jaws of said carrier means. 18. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 17 further including a third orienting blade means for further orienting said needle to within 0.001 inch of said predetermined orientation upon said carrier means. 19. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said second conveyor means positions said carrier means in a confrontingly opposed relation with said multi-axis gripper means to enable said plurality of pin means of said multi-axis gripper means to receive said oriented needle from said carrier means, wherein one of said plurality of pin means is in said second non-engaging position when receiving said needle. 20. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said one of said plurality of pin means of said multi-axis gripper means is retracted to said first engaging position after receiving said surgical needle from said carrier means to thereby engage said surgical needle in said oriented position. 21. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 20 wherein said indexing means conveys said needle to said second location with said multi-axis gripping means engaging said needle in said oriented position. 22. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said second means located at said second predetermined location comprises: (a) a drawing frame, said frame having at least one longitudinal member and defining a drawing axis parallel thereto; (b) means for feeding a flexible indefinite length suture strand to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (c) first and second gripping means for gripping said indefinite length suture strand and drawing it along said drawing axis, said first gripping means mounted for reciprocal movement on said at least one longitudinal member; (d) means for cutting said indefinite length suture strand; and (e) said second gripping means reciprocal to a start position along said drawing axis and below said cutting means, while said first drawing means is drawing said indefinite length suture strand to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutting means, whereby said indefinite length suture strand is inserted within said suture receiving opening of said needle and cut to a predetermined length by said cutting means after said second gripping means has gripped said indefinite length suture strand at said start position. 23. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said at least one longitudinal member further defines reciprocal guide means for said first and second gripping means. 24. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 23 further comprising first and second drive motors for enabling reciprocal movement of respective first and second gripping means. 25. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 24 further comprising a computer control means for said first and second drive motors to draw said indefinite length suture strand to said predetermined distance beyond said cutting means. 26. An apparatus as claimed in claim 25 further comprising a moveable carrier mounted for selective movement along said drawing axis, said movable carrier having said cutting means mounted thereon. 27. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said computer control means further comprises at least one sensor means for determining the position of said moveable carrier and said cutting means. 28. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said feeding means further comprises means for tensioning said indefinite length suture during at least the drawing and cutting thereof. 29. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein each of said first and second gripping means further include retractable gripping elements having a first engaged position and a second retracted position, wherein one of said first and second gripping means traverses the drawing axis on a draw stroke with gripping elements engaged, and the other of said first and second gripping means reciprocates along the same axis with the gripping elements retracted to avoid mechanical interference therewith. 30. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 further including a first vacuum means for temporarily restraining the cut end of said suture strand after cutting thereof. 31. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 30 further including a second vacuum means for proximate positioning of said indefinite length suture strand prior to cutting. 32. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said start position defines a treatment zone, said needle threading and swaging apparatus further comprising means for heat treating a portion of said indefinite length strand of suture material while under tension at said treatment zone to form a tipped portion of said indefinite length strand. 33. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 32 wherein said heat treating means is mounted on said movable carrier. 34. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 32 wherein said indefinite length strand is being supported at a free end adjacent said insertion zone by said first gripping means while said heat treating means is heating a portion of said strand at said treatment zone, said second gripping means engaging said strand at said start position after heat treating said strand at said treatment zone. 35. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said cutting means cuts said stiffened strand in said treatment zone to create a suture strand of definite length supported by said first gripping means and a suture strand of indefinite length supported by said second gripping means, with stiffened free ends above each gripping means. 36. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said third means for swaging includes first and second swaging die means, said first swaging die means having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die means having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, wherein said second swaging die means is positioned next to said first swaging die means to form a swage die opening for receiving said needle. 37. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said first swaging die means is fixed in position and said second swaging die means is laterally movable toward and away from said first fixed swage die means. 38. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 36, wherein said swage die opening is axially aligned with said drawing axis, said multi-axis gripper means in said retracted position prior to positioning said surgical needle within said swage die opening, and is extended to position said suture receiving opening of said needle in said swage die opening. 39. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 38 wherein said third means for swaging further includes a funnel guide means positioned at said insertion zone between a free end of said definite length suture strand and said suture receiving opening of said needle, said funnel die means including a tapered opening axially aligned with said swage die opening for directing said free end of said suture strand into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned therein. 40. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said funnel guide means further includes a registration means for aligning it with at least one of said first and second swaging dies. 41. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 40 wherein said funnel guide means includes a first fixed suture alignment die having an end thereof defining a portion of said tapered opening, and a second movable suture alignment die having an end thereof defining another portion of said tapered opening, wherein said second movable suture alignment die is positioned next to said first fixed suture alignment die to form said tapered opening. 42. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 39 wherein said tapered opening has a suture exit diameter that is larger than the diameter of said suture strand and smaller than the diameter of said suture receiving opening defined in the needle. 43. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 42 wherein said first gripping means is advanced along said suture drawing axis to direct said free end of said suture strand through said funnel guide means and into said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned in said swage die opening. 44. The suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 38 wherein said swaging means includes means for moving said second swage die means laterally away from said first swage die means prior to positioning said needle within said swage die opening. 45. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 44, wherein said moving means further moves said second swage die means toward said first swage die means to grip said needle placed therebetween. 46. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 45 wherein said moving means includes spring biasing means to provide a force sufficient to move said second swage die toward said first swage die without deforming said suture receiving opening of said needle positioned at said swage die opening. 47. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 46, wherein said moving means includes an air cylinder means for supplying adequate force to thrust said movable swage die means toward said first swage die means to accomplish swaging of said needle gripped therebetween. 48. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 47, wherein said second swage die means is thrust towards said first die means for a swaging stroke of a predetermined distance to accomplish said swaging. 49. The needle and suture threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 48, wherein said moving means includes stop means for terminating the motion of said second swage die means during said swaging stroke. 50. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 49 wherein said one of said plurality of pin means is retracted to said second non-engaging position for relaxing said surgical needle in said swage die opening prior to swaging thereof. 51. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 50, wherein said swaging means further includes fence means for maintaining the position of said needle within said swage die opening during the swaging thereof. 52. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said swaging means further includes means for adjusting the position of said first swaging die means to change the amount of swage deformation occurring to said suture receiving opening during swaging thereof. 53. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 52 wherein said first fixed swaging die means includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof, said means for changing the position of said first fixed swaging die means including a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower to laterally move said wedge follower and said first fixed swaging die means in accordance with transverse movement of said wedge assembly. 54. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 53 wherein said transverse movement of said wedge assembly is controllable by a servomotor means for rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch, said rotation of said swage adjust screw being translated into linear motion of said wedge assembly. 55. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 54 wherein said computer control means determines and controls the optimum positioning of said first swaging die means to avoid over-swaging and underswaging said needle. 56. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 22 wherein said cutting means is a retractable cutter comprising: (a) a cutting blade mounted for at least reciprocal movement transverse to said first axis defined by said indefinite length strand from a first retracted position to a second cutting position; (b) support block means for accurately positioning said indefinite length strand of suture material for cutting thereof, and for supporting said strand as the cutting blade traverses said first axis as it reciprocates from said retracted position to said cutting position, whereby said cutting blade is angled with respect to its reciprocating motion to effect a slice ratio of at least 1:1 as said blade cuts said supported suture strand at said cutting position to obtain a clean, broom-free cut. 57. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 56 wherein said cutting means further comprises: (a) a stationary guide means, said guide means positioned adjacent said indefinite length suture strand to be cut; and (b) an actuator means mounted on said stationary guide for providing at least reciprocal movement along a second axis transverse to said first axis; wherein said cutting blade is responsive to said reciprocating actuator to move from said first retracted position to said second cutting position. 58. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57 further including a locating arm with said support block means located at one end thereof and having another end pivotally mounted to said stationary guide for moving said support block means from a first retracted position to a second strand supporting position in response to movement of said actuator. 59. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 58, wherein said support block means is a V-shaped notch for supporting said suture strand on two sides during the cutting thereof. 60. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 59, wherein said pivotal locating arm further comprises an over center link which isolates motion from said actuator means after said support block means has engaged said strand. 61. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 60, wherein said over center link translates reciprocal movement of said actuator means into pivotal movement for said locating arm. 62. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said stationary guide is spaced from said indefinite length strand by the effective length of said pivotal locating arm. 63. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57, wherein said first axis and said second axis are transverse to each other. 64. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57 further including a stationary blade holder mounted on said actuator for supporting said cutting blade during reciprocal motion thereof. 65. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 61, wherein said over center linkage further comprises first and second links, with said first link fixedly mounted on said actuator and said second link connecting said first link and said pivotal locating arm. 66. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 57, wherein said cutting blade is angled with respect to said second axis to horizontally cut said strand with a slicing movement when said blade crosses said first axis. 67. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 66, wherein said cutting blade and said support block means are both retracted behind said stationary guide when in their respective retracted positions. 68. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 50 wherein said one of said plurality of pin means of said multi-axis gripper means is actuated to said engaging position after swaging of said needle, to thereby engage said needle and suture assembly. 69. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 further including a fourth means located at a third predetermined location for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle and suture assembly, said fourth means including a support means for supporting said needle and suture assembly, said support means having at least one suture receiving guide therein. 70. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 69 wherein said indexing means conveys said needle and suture assembly to said third location with said multi-axis gripping means engaging said needle in said oriented position. 71. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 70 wherein said multi-axis gripper means is in said retracted position prior to positioning said needle and suture assembly upon said support means, and is extended to position said needle and suture assembly upon said blade means while enabling said suture strand to be threaded within said suture receiving guide. 72. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 69 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle and suture assembly further includes gripping means for positively gripping said suture strand at a first position below said support means, said gripping means including a slide block means for applying a positive downward force of predetermined value to said gripped suture strand to thereby test the strength of said swage bond. 73. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 72 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle and suture assembly includes means for maintaining said gripping means and said slide block means at said first position prior to applying said positive downward force to said gripped suture. 74. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 73 wherein said slide block means for applying said positive downward force is a mass of predetermined weight, wherein said multi-axis gripper means is actuated to release its engagement of said needle and suture assembly at the time of or before said gripping means is released from its first position to enable said slide block means to apply said positive downward force of predetermined value to said suture strand to thereby test the strength of said swage bond. 75. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 74 wherein said gripping means and said slide block means are slidably mounted along a fixed mounting means, said fixed mounting means positioned substantially parallel with a vertical axis defined by said suture strand. 76. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 75 wherein said maintaining means includes a first air cylinder means for applying pressure against a first side of said slide block means to maintain said gripping means and said slide block means thereof at said first position. 77. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 76 wherein said pressure applied to said first side of said slide block means is ceased to enable said slide block means to slide along said mounting means to a second position that is lower than said first position to effect said positive downward force to said gripped suture. 78. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 72 wherein said fourth means for testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle and suture assembly further includes means for controlling the application of said downward force applied to said suture strand. 79. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 78 wherein said means for controlling the application of said downward force is a counterweight means, positioned to oppose a gravitational force generated by said slide block means. 80. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 79 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond further includes one or more of said supporting means for supporting armed surgical needles having different barrel sizes. 81. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 72 wherein said gripping means includes a pair of retractable gripper arms. 82. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 74 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle and suture assembly further includes means for measuring the value of said positive downward force applied to said suture strand by said slide block means. 83. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 82 wherein said measuring means includes a piezoelectric transducer for measuring the deflection of said support means when said positive downward force is applied to said gripped suture strand. 84. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 83 further including a computer control means connected with said transducer means for outputting a test fail signal if said suture becomes dislodged from said needle after application of said downward force. 85. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 84 wherein said computer control means enables the automatic adjustment of said third means for swaging in accordance with measured values obtained from said measuring means. 86. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 85 wherein said fourth means for automatically testing said swage bond further includes means for removing said needle from said multi-axis gripper means upon receipt of said test fail signal from said control means. 87. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 81 wherein said multi-axis gripper means is retracted from an extended position after pull-testing said needle and suture assembly. 88. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 3 further including a fifth means located at a fourth predetermined location for automatically receiving said needle and suture assembly and for packaging the same as a reduced size organizer. 89. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 88, wherein said indexing means conveys said needle and suture assembly to said fourth predetermined location for transferring said needle and suture assembly to said fifth means for receiving said needle suture assembly. 90. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 89 wherein said fifth means for receiving said needle and suture assembly includes retractable carriage means for gripping an empty package to be loaded with said needle and suture assemblies. 91. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 90 wherein said retractable carriage means carries said empty package in an oriented position, said fifth means for receiving said needle and suture assembly including means for incrementally registering said oriented package in a plurality of positions. 92. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 91 wherein said means for registering said oriented package includes an elevator assembly having a pneumatically operated shaft for registering said retractable carriage means to said plurality of positions. 93. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 92 wherein said indexing means conveys said multi-axis gripper means in a confrontingly opposed relation with said empty package, said multi-axis gripper means depositing an individual oriented needle and suture assembly into a needle receiving engagement means formed in said empty package at each registered position. 94. The needle threading and swaging 30 apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said indexing means further includes cam dial means includes one or more cam tracks located about a periphery of said rotary dial means, each of said cam tracks defining a retracted portion thereof and an extended portion thereof. 95. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 94 wherein said multi-axis gripper means includes a cam follower means positioned within a respective cam track of said cam dial means for extending said multi-axis gripper means when said cam follower is positioned within said extended portion of said cam track and for retracting said multi-axis gripper means when said cam follower is positioned within said retracted portion of said cam track. 96. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 95 wherein said rotary dial means is rotated in a first direction relative to said cam dial means to move said cam follower of said multi-axis gripper means from said retracted portion to said extended portion, thereby moving said multi-axis gripper means from said first retracted position to said second extended position. 97. The needle threading and swaging apparatus according to claim 96 wherein said rotary dial means is rotated in a second direction relative to said cam dial means to move said cam follower of said multiaxis gripper means from said extended portion back to said first retracted portion, thereby moving said multiaxis gripper means from said second extended position back to said first retracted position. 