A sensor unit of an optical probe includes an illuminating device having an illuminating point arranged on the central portion of a detective surface facing a to-be-measured object, and eight light receiving devices arranged on the x and y axes in the detective surface, for receiving a reflected light from the object, four light receiving points among those of the eight light receiving devices being symmetrically arranged on the x axis with respect to the illuminating point and the remaining four light receiving points thereof being symmetrically arranged on the y axis with respect to the illuminating point. The rotation angle .theta. of the unit normal vector around the x axis and the rotation angle .phi. thereof around the y axis in the detective surface are calculated by processing the amounts of light received by the eight light receiving devices of the sensor unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-contact type shape measuring device for measuring a 3-D shape, comprising: (a) an optical probe having a plurality of sensor units which are attached to a probe body having a spherical surface facing a to-be-measured object and whose detective surfaces lie on said spherical surface, said sensor units including illuminating means having an illuminating point arranged at the center of the detective surface facing said to-be-measured object and at least eight light receiving means arranged on two axes passing said illuminating point in said detective surface for receiving a reflected light from said to-be-measured object, light receiving points of said eight light receiving means being symmetrically arranged on said two axes with respect to said illuminating point with four of said light receiving means disposed on each of said two axes; and (b) processing means for deriving normal vectors in the position of said to-be-measured object which are illuminated by said sensor units and gap distances between said sensor units and said to-be-measured object which are illuminated by said sensor units and gap distances between said sensor units and said to-be-measured object according to output signals of said sensor unit. 2. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 1, further comprising selecting means for selectively and sequentially activating the measurement operations of said sensor units. 3. A non-contact type shape measuring device for measuring a 3-D shape, comprising: (a) an optical probe having a plurality of sensor units which are attached to a probe body having a spherical surface facing a to-be-measured object and whose detective surfaces lie on said spherical surface, said sensor units including illuminating means having an illuminating point arranged at the center of the detective surface facing said to-be-measured object and at least eight light receiving means arranged on two axes passing said illuminating point in said detective surface, for receiving a reflected light from said to-be-measured object, light receiving points of said eight light receiving means being symmetrically arranged on said two axes with respect to said illuminating point with four of said light receiving points disposed on each of said two axes; and (b) a plurality of light source modulating means for ON/OFF modulating lights emitted from said illuminating means of said sensor units by different frequencies respectively assigned thereto; (c) a plurality of filtering means for extracting frequency components assigned as the modulation frequencies of said respective illuminating means from output signals of said light receiving means of said sensor traits; and (d) processing means for deriving normal vectors in the positions of said to-be-measured object which are illuminated by said sensor units and gap distances between said sensor units and said to-be-measured object according to output signals of said filtering means. 4. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 3, further comprising selecting means for selectively and sequentially activating the measurement operations of said sensor units. 5. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 1, wherein each of said illuminating means includes: collimating means attached to the front end portion of a sensor unit base with one end thereof exposed to the detective surface of said sensor unit and used as an illuminating point; an illuminating fiber connected to said collimating means; and a light source for introducing a light into said illuminating fiber. 6. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 5, wherein said light source is disposed in a position separated from said sensor unit. 7. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 1, wherein each of said light receiving means includes: a light receiving fiber attached to a sensor unit base with one end thereof exposed as a light receiving point to the detective surface of said sensor unit; and a light receiving element for receiving the light transmitted via said light receiving fiber. 8. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 7, wherein said light receiving element is disposed in a position separated from said sensor units. 9. A non-contact type shape measuring device according to claim 1, wherein adjacent sensor units among said plurality of sensor units commonly use two of said light receiving means. 10. A shape measuring method for deriving an error-compensated gap distance and tilt angle of a normal vector by using an output signal Zs corresponding to a gap distance Z between a non-contact type probe and a to-be-measured object and an output signal Ts corresponding to a tilt angle T of a normal vector at a measuring point comprising the steps of: (a) deriving a plurality of relational curves between Z and Zs obtained when a reference sample is held in various angle positions and a plurality of relational curves between T and Ts obtained when said referece sample is held in various angle positions; (b) deriving a variable Zsl and a variable Tsl for said to-be-measured object; (c) deriving a relational curve L1 obtained by projecting points of Zs1 on said plurality of relational curves between Z and Zs onto a Z-T plane; (d) deriving a relational curve L2 obtained by projecting points of Ts1 on said plurality of relational curves between T and Ts onto said Z-T plane; and (e) deriving the error-compensated gap distance and tilt angle of a normal vector from the coordinate point of intersection between the relational curves L1 and L2. 