A motion monitor which produces audible sound representative of motions of a subject or object being monitored, including a carrier, an optical fiber carried by the carrier, a laser source for injecting a laser beam in the optical fiber to produce a speckle light pattern at the output of the optical fiber, a photodetector for producing an output signal representative of modal noise developed in the optical fiber due to physical movement of the fiber, an amplifier for amplifying the output of the photodetector, and a loudspeaker which converts the amplified signals to audible sound representative of the modal noise at the fiber output. Optionally, the signals produced by the photodetector are shifted to a higher frequency range, e.g., the 500-700 Hz range, thereby to enable use of conventional inexpensive electronics and efficient loudspeakers. In one embodiment involving monitoring of a person, the frequency shifted output of the photodetector is transmitted to a remote location for remote monitoring of movements of the person. In another embodiment, the loudspeaker is mounted on the carrier and produces sound mimicking movement of the subject or object to which the carrier is attached.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A motion monitor for producing audible sound, comprising: a flexible carrier; an optical fiber carried by the flexible carrier and having an input end and an output end; laser means for applying a light beam to the input end of the fiber; a photoreceiver including photodetector means coupled to the output end of the fiber and illuminated by laser light transmitted through the fiber for producing an output signal representative of modal noise developed in the optical fiber due to physical movement of the fiber; and sound producing means coupled to the photoreceiver for producing audible sound representative of modal noise produced at the output of the optical fiber due to movement of the optical fiber. 2. The monitor according to claim 1, wherein said photodetector means comprises: a single photodetector positioned at a distance from the output end of said fiber so as to intercept 24-74% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 3. The monitor according to claim 1, wherein said photodetector means comprises: plural photoconductive elements disposed opposite the output end of said optical fiber so that said elements are illuminated by a speckle pattern of light transmitted through said fiber, said elements producing a pair of outputs each representing approximately half of the speckle pattern of light incident on said elements; and differential amplifier means having a pair of inputs coupled to respective of the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements and an output which is a difference signal representing a difference between the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements. 4. The monitor according to claim 3, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the output end of the optical fiber so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 5. The monitor according to claim 4, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at distance from the output end of the optical fiber so as to intercept 45-83% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 6. The monitor according to claim 5, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the output end of the optical fiber so as to intercept 60-70% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 7. The monitor according to claim 1, wherein said photoreceiver comprises: filter means disposed between the output end of said optical fiber and said photodetector means for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means. 8. The monitor according to claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7, wherein said photoreceiver comprises: frequency shifting means having an output coupled to said sound producing means for shifting in frequency the output of said photodetector means from a first frequency range to a second higher frequency range. 9. The monitor according to claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7, wherein said sound producing means comprises: a microphone for detecting sound; an audio mixer having a first input coupled to an output of said microphone and a second input coupled to an output of said photoreceiver, and an output; transmitter means coupled to the output of said mixer for transmitting a radio signal to a remote location; and monitor means for receiving the signal transmitted by said transmitter means and producing an audible sound corresponding to the signal input to the transmitter means by the mixer. 10. The monitor according to claim 8, wherein said sound producing means comprises: a microphone for detecting sound; an audio mixer having a first input coupled to an output of said microphone and a second input coupled to an output of said photoreceiver, and an output; transmitter means coupled to the output of said mixer for transmitting a radio signal to a remote location; and monitor means for receiving the signal transmitted by said transmitter means and producing an audible sound corresponding to the signal input to the transmitter means by the mixer. 11. The monitor according to claim 1, wherein said sound producing means comprises: amplifier means for amplifying the output of said photoreceiver; and a loudspeaker coupled to said amplifier means. 12. The monitor according to claim 11, wherein said photoreceiver comprises: frequency shifting means having an output coupled to said sound producing means for shifting in frequency the output of said photodetector means from a first frequency range to a second higher frequency range. 13. The monitor according to claim 11, wherein said carrier comprises attachment means for attaching the carrier to a subject being monitored. 14. The monitor according to claim 11, wherein said carrier comprises means for mounting said loudspeaker on said carrier. 15. A system for producing motion related sound, comprising: an object; a flexible carrier coupled to said object; an optical fiber carried by said flexible carrier and having an input end and an output end; laser means for applying a laser beam to the input end of the optical fiber; a photoreceiver including photodetector means coupled to the output end of said optical fiber and illuminated by laser light transmitted through the fiber for producing an output signal representative of modal noise developed in said optical fiber due to physical movement of said optical fiber; and sound producing means coupled to the photoreceiver for producing audible sound representative of modal noise produced at the output of the optical fiber due to movement of the optical fiber. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein said photodetector means comprises: a single photodetector positioned at a distance from the output end of said fiber so as to intercept 24-74% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 17. The system according to claim 15, wherein said photodetector means comprises: plural photoconductive elements disposed opposite the output end of said optical fiber so that said elements are illuminated by a speckle pattern of light transmitted through said fiber, said elements producing a pair of outputs each representing approximately half of the speckle pattern of light incident on said elements; and differential amplifier means having a pair of inputs coupled to respective of the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements and an output which is a difference signal representing a difference between the outputs produced by said plural photoconductive elements. 18. The system according to claim 17, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the output end of the optical fiber so as to intercept 33-100% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 19. The system according to claim 18, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at distance from the output end of the optical fiber so as to intercept 45-83% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 20. The system according to claim 19, wherein said plural photoconductive elements are positioned at a distance from the output end of the optical fiber so as to intercept 60-70% of the speckles of light transmitted at said output end. 21. The system according to claim 15, wherein said photoreceiver comprises: filter means disposed between the output end of said optical fiber and said photodetector means for reducing the number of speckles of light applied to said photodetector means. 22. The system according to claims 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or 21, wherein said photoreceiver comprises: frequency shifting means having an output coupled to said sound producing means for shifting in frequency the output of said photodetector means from a first frequency range to a second higher frequency range. 23. The system according to claim 15, wherein said sound producing means comprises: amplifier means for amplifying the output of said photoreceiver; and a loudspeaker coupled to said amplifier means. 24. The system according to claim 22, wherein said sound producing means comprises: amplifier means for amplifying the output of said photoreceiver; and a loudspeaker coupled to said amplifier means. 