A novel rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor processes a multiplicity of wafers or a single large wafer, e.g., 200 mm (8 inches), 250 mm (10 inches), 300 mm (12 inches) diameter wafers, using either a single or dual heat source. The wafers or wafer are mounted on a rotatable susceptor supported by a susceptor support. A susceptor position control rotates the wafers during processing and raises and lowers the susceptor to various positions for loading and processing of wafers. A heat controller controls either a single heat source or a dual heat source that heats the wafers to a substantially uniform temperature during processing. A gas flow controller regulates flow of gases into the reaction chamber. Instead of the second heat source, a passive heat distribution element is used, in one embodiment, to achieve a substantially uniform temperature throughout the wafers. Further, a novel susceptor is used that includes a wafer surround ring around the wafer and, in some embodiments, a spindle and/or a susceptor insert underneath the wafer.
Claims We claim: 1. A rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a rapid thermal process reaction chamber having a transparent upper surface; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the rapid thermal process reaction chamber having a first side and a second side opposite to and removed from said first side; wherein said first side of the susceptor is adapted for mounting a substrate or substrates thereon; a substrate surround ring mounted on said first side, the substrate surround ring formed with a recess on which said substrate or one of said substrates is mounted wherein said rapid thermal process reactor is used for a single substrate batch upon mounting said single substrate on said rotatable susceptor; and for a batch of substrates upon mounting said substrates on said rotatable susceptor; and a rapid thermal process radiant heat source mounted outside the rapid thermal process reaction chamber about said transparent upper surface so that heat from the rapid thermal process radiant heat source directly heats the substrate or substrates, wherein said rapid thermal process reactor heats the substrate or substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period characteristic of rapid thermal processing. 2. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1, wherein the first side of said susceptor includes a pocket for each substrate wherein said substrate surround ring is mounted in said pocket. 3. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 2, further comprising a susceptor insert placed in the pocket. 4. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 3, wherein the susceptor insert is a plate. 5. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 4, wherein the plate is made of silicon carbide. 6. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 3, wherein the plate is made of graphite. 7. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 6, wherein the the graphite plate is coated with silicon carbide. 8. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein the substrate surround ring comprises a graphite substrate surround ring. 9. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1, wherein the substrate surround ring comprises a silicon carbide substrate surround ring. 10. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1, wherein at least one groove is formed in a surface of the substrate surround ring within the recess at a location proximate to the edge of the wafer. 11. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 10, wherein the at least one groove is formed circumferentially within the recess. 12. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 10, wherein a hole is centrally formed in the recess of the substrate surround ring to define a shelf. 13. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 12, wherein the shelf is beveled. 14. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein the substrate surround ring further comprises a first section and a second section, the second section being separable from the first section so that the first section can be lifted away from the second section to allow removal of the substrate from the substrate surround ring. 15. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1, wherein the rapid thermal process radiant heat source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks, each lamp bank including at least one lamp. 16. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 15, wherein one of the plurality of lamp banks includes 9 lamps. 17. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1 wherein said rapid thermal process reaction chamber further comprises a transparent lower surface opposite and removed from said upper surface; and said rapid thermal process reactor further comprises: a reflector mounted outside said transparent lower surface of said rapid thermal process reactor, wherein heat energy exiting said rapid thermal process reactor through said transparent lower surface is reflected by said reflector back into said rapid thermal process reactor. 18. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 1, further comprising a plate mounted outside the rapid thermal process reaction chamber on a side of the rapid thermal process reaction chamber opposite said transparent surface, a surface of the plate adjacent the side of said rapid thermal process reaction chamber being reflective. 19. A rapid thermal process reactor for processing a plurality of semiconductor wafers, comprising: a rapid thermal process reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the rapid thermal process reaction chamber having a first side and a second side opposite to and removed from said first side wherein said first side of the susceptor is adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon; a plurality of substrate surround rings mounted on said first side wherein each substrate surround ring is formed with a recess on which one of said plurality of substrates is mounted; and a rapid thermal process heat source mounted outside the rapid thermal process reaction chamber wherein heat from the rapid thermal process heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period characteristic of a rapid thermal process reactor. 20. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 19, wherein the first side of the susceptor includes a plurality of pockets and one of said substrate surround rings is mounted in each pocket. 21. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 20, wherein at least one substrate surround ring comprises a graphite substrate surround ring. 22. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 20, wherein at least one substrate surround ring comprises a silicon carbide substrate surround ring. 23. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 20, wherein at least one groove is formed in a surface of at least one substrate surround ring within the recess at a location proximate to the edge of the substrate. 24. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 23, wherein the at least one groove is formed circumferentially within the recess. 25. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 23, wherein a hole is centrally formed in the recess of at least one substrate surround ring to define a shelf. 26. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 25, wherein the shelf is beveled. 27. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 20, further comprising a susceptor insert placed in each pocket. 28. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 27, wherein at least one susceptor insert is a plate. 29. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 28, wherein said plate is made of silicon carbide. 30. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 28, wherein said plate is made of graphite. 31. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 30, wherein said graphite plate is coated with silicon carbide. 32. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 19, wherein at least one substrate surround ring is formed with a first section and a second section, the second section being separable from the first section so that the first section can be lifted away from the second section to allow removal of the substrate from the substrate surround ring. 33. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 19 further comprising a reflector mounted outside a transparent lower surface of said rapid thermal process reaction chamber, wherein heat energy exiting said rapid thermal process reaction chamber through said transparent lower surface is reflected by said reflector back into said rapid thermal process reaction chamber. 34. A rapid thermal process reactor for processing a single semiconductor substrate having a diameter selected from a group of diameters consisting of 125 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 250 mm, 300 mm, 350 mm and 400 mm, the rapid thermal processing reactor comprising: a rapid thermal process reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the rapid thermal process reaction chamber, a first side of the susceptor adapted for mounting a substrate having a diameter selected from the group of diameters consisting of 125 mm, 150 mm, 200 mm, 250 mm, 300 mm, 350 mm and 400 mm wherein said rapid thermal process reaction chamber and said rotatable susceptor are sized such that each of said substrate diameters can be processed within said rapid thermal process reaction chamber; a substrate surround ring mounted on said first side wherein said substrate surround ring is formed with a recess on which said substrate is mounted; and a rapid thermal process heat source mounted outside the rapid thermal process reaction chamber so that heat from the rapid thermal process heat source directly heats the substrate to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period characteristic of a rapid thermal process reactor. 35. The rapid thermal process of claim 34, wherein the first side of the susceptor includes a pocket, and said substrate surround ring is mounted in the pocket. 36. The rapid thermal process of claim 35, wherein the substrate surround ring comprises a graphite substrate surround ring. 37. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 35, wherein the substrate surround ring comprises a silicon carbide surround ring. 38. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 35, wherein at least one groove is formed in a surface of the substrate surround ring within the recess at a location proximate to the edge of the substrate. 39. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 38, wherein the at least one groove is formed circumferentially within the recess. 40. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 38, wherein a hole is centrally formed in the recess of the substrate surround ring to define a shelf. 41. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 40, wherein the shelf is beveled. 42. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 35, further comprising a susceptor insert placed in the pocket. 43. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 42, wherein the susceptor insert is a plate. 44. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 43, wherein the plate is made of silicon carbide. 45. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 43, wherein the plate is made of graphite. 46. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 45, wherein the graphite plate is coated with silicon carbide. 47. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 34, wherein the substrate surround ring is formed with a first section and a second section, the second section being separable from the first section so that the first section can be lifted away from the second section to allow removal of the substrate from the substrate surround ring. 48. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 34 further comprising a reflector mounted outside a transparent lower surface of said rapid thermal process reaction chamber, wherein heat energy exiting said rapid thermal process reaction chamber through said transparent lower surface is reflected by said reflector back into said rapid thermal process reaction chamber. 49. The rapid thermal process reactor as in claim 19 or claim 34 wherein the rapid thermal process radiant heat source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks, each lamp bank including at least one lamp. 50. The rapid thermal process reactor as in claim 1, claim 19, or claim 34 further comprising: a reflective passive heat distribution element mounted within said rapid thermal process reaction chamber below said second surface of said susceptor wherein said reflective passive heat distribution element reflects said radiant heat towards said second surface of said susceptor. 51. The rapid thermal process reactor as in claim 1 or claim 19 further comprising: a multi-substrate susceptor support having a plurality of arms wherein each of said plurality of arms engages said second surface of said susceptor at a different contact point and further wherein each of said different contact points is removed from a center of said susceptor; each of said different contact points is removed from an outer circumferential edge of said susceptor; and each of said different contact points is positioned between and removed from adjacent substrates. 