An automatic non-destructive real time infrared system includes special bundle of fiber optics having the ability to convey infrared light waves to solid organic-base compounds and receive reflected infrared light waves from the same. A sample of manufactured solid compound of organic-base is conveyed by mechanical and pneumatic means to a holding receptacle located under the field of view of the fiber optics probe. The probe is directly linked to a spectrophotometer to obtain a spectrum. The spectrophotometer is linked to a computer system determining the exact dissolution measurement of each manufactured solid organic-base compound. The compacted solid of organic-base compound is released from the receptacle by an ejection means to be dispensed in a holding container for storage. The storage container maintains the sample sequence. A new sample is dispensed to the holding receptacle allowing for new measurement of dissolution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic non-destructive near infrared system comprising a continuous supply of tablets loaded on a conveyor via an actuator mechanism maintaining a sequence of said tablets on said conveyor, a receptacle comprising an upper plate holding a bundle of at least one fiber optic cable receiving infrared waves from an opto-directional coupler, conveying near infrared light waves, said receptacle further comprising a pair of lower parts accommodating presence of objects, an air jet means for directing the objects to rest at said receptacle and to depart from said receptacle, said tablets departing from receptacle are arranged in storage maintaining said sequence, said bundle of at least one fiber optic cable carrying upstream and downstream layers of fiber optics, said upstream cable layers feeding infrared waves and said downstream cable layers conveying reflected infrared waves to an optical switch means, a means for conveying and amplifying data received from said downstream cable layers to an infrared spectrophotometer to a computer and further conveyed by electronic means to a computer display monitor displaying status of said tablets in Fourier Transformation form, said Fourier Transformation form is integrated and conveyed to a plotter comprising two directional motions responding to said computer output drafting the status of said spectrum, an output of integration of said Fourier Transformation form is further conveyed to an alarm means declaring a status of said tablets, said alarm means comprising sensorial information conveyed to a supply means of tablets, said output of integration of said Fourier Transformation form yields linear phenomena conveyed to said plotter and said computer display plots integrated absorbency in a first direction and nominal hardness (dissolution) of the tablets in a second direction perpendicular to said first direction. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein continuous supply of tablet objects loaded on a conveyor via an actuator mechanism electro-pneumatically actuated, and said actuator mechanism comprising electro-pneumatic solenoid actuating devices. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said conveyor includes a plurality of cavities and wherein said continuous supply of tablets loaded on said conveyor via an actuator mechanism is synchronized between each of said plurality of cavities and its corresponding tablet placed onto conveyor. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said conveyor maintains a departing sequence of said tablets from said actuator. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said air jet means for directing the objects is an electro-pneumatic solenoid device actuated to maintain an orderly sequence of said tablets. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said receptacle comprising an upper plate holding bundle of fiber optics cable or plurality of fiber optics cables, said receptacle upper plate is fixed where tablet objects are conveyed to said receptacle. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said receptacle comprising of an upper plate holding a bundle of fiber optics cable or plurality of fiber optics cables, said receptacle upper plate is movable where tablet objects are not conveyed to said receptacle. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said pair of lower pads accommodating presence of objects is automatically actuated. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said bundle of fiber optics cable or plurality of fiber optics cables carrying dual layers of fiber optics of upstream cable layers feeding infrared waves and downstream cable layers conveying reflected infrared waves, combine in a unified bundle at the point of entering said receptacle, while downstream cable layers separates after departing said receptacle. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said means of conveying and amplifying data received from said downstream fiber optics cable or plurality of cables to said infrared spectrophotometer to computer, includes means of conducting multiple parallel processing of all spectra corresponding to tablet objects. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said means of conveying and amplifying data received from said downstream fiber optics cable or plurality of cables to said infrared spectrophotometer to computer, includes means of sequencing and storing data for sequential processing of all spectra corresponding to tablet objects. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said computer computes mathematical integration in an output form for each spectrum generated by said spectrophotometer, resulting in a single value for each spectrum of the tablet object. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said resulting single value for each spectrum of the tablet object is measured against two predetermined tolerance values, one representing an upper acceptable value and the other representing a lower acceptable value, determining the acceptability of the tablet hardness (dissolution). 14. The system of claim 1, wherein said output form is conveyed by electronic means to computer display monitor includes an electronic mechanism sequencing the data of each stored spectrum, arranging the hardness (dissolution) data in the proper sequence. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said electronic means includes a video recording means. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein said computer output form is integrated and conveyed to a plotter which responsive to said computer drafts the status of said spectrum, said computer output form in a three dimensional illustrating an absorbency distribution. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein said alarm means includes means for stopping the supply station. 18. An apparatus comprising: means for exposing a sample to a plurality of light beams of varying wavelengths thereby creating a plurality of reflected light beams; means for measuring intensities of said plurality of reflected light beams and further generating a spectrum of relative reflectance or absorbance of said plurality of reflected light beams by the sample; means for performing a Fourier transform on said spectrum; and means for integrating output of said means for performing a Fourier transform thereby determining hardness of the sample. 19. A method comprising the steps of: exposing a sample to a plurality of light beams of varying wavelengths thereby creating a plurality of reflected light beams; measuring intensities of said plurality of reflected light beams and further generating a spectrum of relative reflectance or absorbance of said plurality of reflected light beams by the sample; performing a Fourier transform on said spectrum; and integrating output of said step of performing a Fourier transform thereby determining hardness of the sample. 20. An apparatus comprising: means for exposing a sample to a plurality of light beams of varying wavelengths thereby creating a plurality of reflected light beams; means for measuring intensities of said plurality of reflected light beams and further generating a spectrum of relative reflectance or absorbance of said plurality of reflected light beams by the sample; means for performing a Fourier transform on said spectrum; and means for integrating output of said means for performing a Fourier transform thereby determining contents of the sample. 21. A method comprising the steps of: exposing a sample to a plurality of light beams of varying wavelengths thereby creating a plurality of reflected light beams; measuring intensities of said plurality of reflected light beams and further generating a spectrum of relative reflectance or absorbance of said plurality of reflected light beams by the sample; performing a Fourier transform on said spectrum; and integrating output of said step of performing a Fourier transform thereby determining contents of the sample. 