A passive exercise apparatus includes an interface member for coupling to a user's limb. An arm member is coupled to the interface member by a wrist joint. The wrist joint has rotational motion about three axes. A first link is coupled to the arm member by a sliding joint. The sliding joint allows translational motion of the arm member relative to the first link. A second link is rotatably coupled to the first link by a first rotary joint. A third link is rotatably coupled to the second link by a second rotary joint. A first brake is coupled to the first rotary joint for resisting movement of the first rotary joint. A second brake is coupled to the second rotary joint for resisting movement of the second rotary joint. A third brake is coupled to the arm member for resisting movement of the arm member. The user is capable of interfacing with the apparatus to exercise a six degree of freedom motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A passive exercise apparatus comprising: an interface member for coupling to a user's body; an arm member coupled to the interface member by a wrist joint, the wrist joint having rotational motion about three axes; a first link coupled to the arm member by a sliding joint, the sliding joint allowing translational motion of the arm member relative to the first link; a second link rotatably coupled to the first link by a first rotary joint; a third link rotatably coupled to the second link by a second rotary joint; a first rotary brake coupled to the first rotary joint for resisting movement of the first rotary joint, a first transmission coupled between the first joint and the first brake for reducing torque to the first brake, the first link having an outer periphery, a portion of the outer periphery of the first link forming a pulley that is part of the first transmission; a second rotary brake coupled to the second rotary joint for resisting movement of the second rotary joint, a second transmission coupled between the second joint and the second brake for reducing torque to the second brake; and a third rotary brake coupled to the arm member for resisting translational motion of the arm member, a third transmission coupled between the arm member and the third brake for reducing torque to the third brake, wherein the user may interface with the apparatus to exercise a six degree of freedom motion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the wrist joint is unbraked. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the ratio of the first transmission is about 30:1 or greater. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 in which the first transmission comprises a two-stage cable drive. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the ratio of the second transmission is about 30:1 or greater. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 in which the second transmission comprises a two-stage cable drive. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 in which the second transmission includes at least one horizontally oriented pulley for engaging a cable, said pulley having a wire encircling the pulley in a helix for vertically supporting said cable to prevent said cable from slipping off said pulley. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the third transmission coupled between the arm member and the third brake comprises: a cable secured to the arm member; and a pulley rotatably coupled to the third brake, said cable rotatably engaging the pulley. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising first, second and third sensors for sensing movement of the first rotary joint, second rotary joint and the arm member respectively, said sensed movement being provided to a controller, the controller controlling the amount of resistance provided by the first, second and third brakes, said resistance being proportional to the movement sensed by the sensors. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the arm member, the first link and the second link are arranged to allow movement of the interface member in a three dimensional resistance field. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 in which the controller provides the resistance field with first and second resistance areas, wherein the level of resistance provided by the first area differs from the level of resistance provided by the second area. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 in which the first and second resistance areas each have a shape that can be varied by the controller. 13. A passive exercise apparatus comprising: an interface member for coupling to a user's body; an arm member coupled to the interface member by a wrist joint, the wrist joint being an unbraked joint having rotational motion about three axes; first link coupled to the arm member by a sliding joint, the sliding joint allowing translational motion of the arm member relative to the first link; a second link rotatably coupled to the first link by a first rotary joint; a third link rotatably coupled to the second link by a second rotary joint; a first rotary brake coupled to the first rotary joint for resisting movement of the first rotary joint; a second rotary brake coupled to the second rotary joint for resisting movement of the second rotary joint; a third rotary brake coupled to the arm member for resisting translational motion of the arm member; a first transmission coupled between the first joint and the first brake for reducing torque to the first brake, the first link having an outer periphery, a portion of the outer periphery of the first link forming a pulley that is part of the first transmission; a second transmission coupled between the second joint and the second brake for reducing torque to the second brake; and a third transmission coupled between the arm member and the third brake for reducing torque to the third brake, wherein the user may interface with the apparatus to exercise a six degree of freedom motion, while only three degrees of freedom of the apparatus are braked. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising first, second and third sensors for sensing movement of the first rotary joint, second rotary joint and the arm member respectively, said sensed movement being provided to a controller, the controller controlling the amount of resistance provided by the first, second and third brakes, said resistance being proportional to the movement sensed by the sensors. 15. A method of exercising comprising the steps of: coupling an interface member of an exercise apparatus to a user's body, the interface member being coupled to an arm member by a wrist joint, the wrist joint providing rotational motion about three axes, the arm member being coupled to a first link by a sliding joint, the sliding joint allowing translational motion of the arm member relative to the first link, a second link being rotatably coupled to the first link by a first rotary joint and a third link being rotatably coupled to the second link by a second rotary joint; moving the limb in a desired motion relative to the exercise apparatus; resisting movement of the first rotary joint with a first rotary brake coupled to the first rotary joint, a first transmission being coupled between the first rotary joint and the first brake for reducing the amount of torque to the first brake, the first link having an outer periphery, a portion of the outer periphery of the first link forming a pulley that is part of the first transmission; resisting movement of the second rotary joint with a second rotary brake coupled to the second rotary joint, a second transmission being coupled between the second rotary joint and the second brake for reducing the amount of torque to the second brake; and resisting movement of the arm member with a third rotary brake coupled to the arm member, a third transmission being coupled between the arm member and the third brake for reducing the amount of torque to the third brake, wherein the user may interface with the apparatus to exercise a six degree of freedom motion. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: sensing movement of the first rotary joint, second rotary joint and arm member with first, second and third sensors, respectively; providing said sensed movement to a controller; and controlling the amount of resistance provided by the first, second and third brakes with the controller, the amount of resistance provided by each brake being proportional to the movement sensed by the sensors. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of arranging the arm member, the first link and the second link to allow movement of the interface member in a three dimensional resistance field. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the steps of: providing a first resistance area and a second resistance area within the resistance field with a controller, the level of resistance provided by the first resistance area differing from the level of resistance provided by the second resistance area. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of shaping the first and second resistance areas with the controller. 