An automated means for hydrating a molded hydrophilic contact lens is provided in which a first robotic assembly removes a plurality of contact lens molds from a production line carrier, each of the lens molds having a contact lens adhered therein. The first robotic assembly transports the molds to a first staging area where the lens molds are sandwiched between a lens mold carrier and a top chamber plate to form a first hydration carrier. A first rotary transfer device then hands the first hydration carrier to a second robotic assembly which immerses the first hydration carrier in a hydration bath to hydrate the lens and to release the lens from the lens mold. While the lens is immersed in the hydration bath, each lens is transferred from its respective mold to a lens transfer means found within the top chamber plate. After a predetermined period of time, the second robotic assembly removes the first hydration carrier from the hydration bath and hands the hydration carrier off to a second rotary transfer device which rotates the first hydration carrier and aligns it for transfer to a third robotic assembly. The third robotic assembly then carries the top chamber plate and contact lenses through a series of steps in which the lens mold carrier and lens molds are removed from the top chamber plate. The lenses carried on the lens transfer means are then flushed and transported for assembly with a hydration base member to form a second hydration carrier for processing the lens in subsequent extraction stations. The second hydration carrier is then transported through a plurality of flushing or extraction stations wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into the hydration chambers at each hydration station to flush leachable substances from the hydration chamber. At each flushing station, fresh deionized water is introduced into the hydration chamber to remove previously extracted impurities and the products of hydrolysis. A final robotic dis-assembly device separates the top chamber plate and lens transfer means from the hydration base member, to provide fully hydrated lenses in a concave lens holding means ready for transfer to inspection and packaging stations.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated apparatus for hydrating a molded hydrophilic contact lens, said automated apparatus comprising: (a) a first robotic assembly for removing a plurality of contact lens molds from a carrier, each mold having a contact lens therein, and assembling said molds with a mold carrier and a plurality of lens transfer means to form a first hydration carrier; (b) a second robotic assembly for immersing said first hydration carrier in a hydration bath to hydrate the lens and release said lens from said mold, and to allow said lens to transfer from said mold to said lens transfer means; said second robotic assembly removing said first hydration carrier from said bath after a predetermined time; (c) a transport for transporting said first hydration carrier through said hydration bath; (d) a third robotic assembly for removing said molds from said lens transfer means and transporting said lens transfer means and said lenses to a subsequent processing station. 2. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first robotic assembly is a pick and place robot that picks a plurality of contact lens molds carried by one or more pallet carriers and places them in a lens mold carrier. 3. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said lens transfer means includes a plurality of lens transfer assemblies for engaging said contact lens molds, and forming a hydration chamber there between. 4. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said third robotic assembly includes a first robotic dis-assembly device to remove said lens mold and said mold carrier from the first hydration carrier. 5. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said third robotic assembly further comprises a rotary transfer device for engaging said lens transfer plate and inverting it for assembly with a hydration base to form a second hydration carrier. 6. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first robotic disassembly device includes registration means which cooperate with a third robotic device to align a plurality of vacuum grips with said plurality of contact lens molds. 7. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said third robotic assembly further comprises: (a) a rotary transfer device for engaging said lens transfer means and translating it to said first robotic dis-assembly device, (b) a third robotic device for registering said mold carrier for dis-assembly of said molds and said lens transfer means prior to forming a second hydration carrier. 8. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said third robotic device includes at least one tapered pin for penetrating said mold carrier for registration of said mold carrier, and said dis-assembly device includes at least one female member for mating with said tapered pin. 9. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lens transfer means includes a top chamber plate having: a transport frame, said transport frame facilitating transfer of a contact lens between two processing stations; a plurality of carrier elements, each element including a body portion having a convex lens attachment surface on one end and a means for attaching each body portion to said transport frame on an opposite end; and a fluid line extending through each body portion of each element for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and a contact lens carrier thereon to release said lens. 10. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said lens transfer means further includes a plurality of magnets for engaging a plurality of magnets steels in said mold carrier to secure each of said molds to said carrier elements. 11. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said convex lens attachment surface generally conforms to a concave surface of the contact lens to enable said convex lens attachment surface to hold the contact lens with surface tension. 12. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein said body portion is formed of polyetheretherketone and includes a circumferential wall having a plurality of openings formed therein, said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the convex lens attachment surface. 13. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said body portion includes an annular shoulder formed proximal to a circumference of the convex lens attachment surface. 14. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said top chamber plate further comprises the first hydration carrier having a plurality of concave lens holding surfaces, each of said concave surfaces associated with a respective carrier element to receive a lens attached thereto, and a fluid line extending through said body portion of said carrier element for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and said lens to release the lens from said convex lens attachment surface and transfer said lens to said concave holding surface. 15. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein said concave lens holding surface defines a hydration chamber between said concave holding surface an the convex lens attachment surface. 16. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second robotic assembly slides said first hydration carrier into said hydration bath at a predetermined angle. 17. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein said second robotic assembly slides said first hydration assembly into said hydration bath with the contact lens molds positioned above said lens transfer means. 18. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said predetermined angle is 45.degree. from the surface of the hydration bath, .+-.20.degree.. 19. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second robotic assembly slides said first hydration carrier into said hydration bath at a predetermined speed. 20. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said predetermined speed does not exceed 40 mm/sec. 21. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means further comprises a heater for heating the temperature of the hydration bath to a predetermined temperature ranging from 55.degree. C. to 90.degree. C. 22. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein said predetermined temperature is 70.degree. C. 23. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hydration bath is a bath of deionized water with a surfactant therein. 24. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein said surfactant ranges from 0.005% to 5% of said hydration bath. 25. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second robotic assembly further includes a pick unit for removing said hydration carrier from said bath at a speed that does not exceed 24 mm/sec. 26. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lens transfer means includes a lens transfer plate comprising a plurality of convex lens carrier elements, with a convex carrier element associated with each lens to be hydrated, said automated means further comprising a plurality of second hydration carriers, each of said second hydration carriers having a plurality of concave lens holding surfaces that are arranged to cooperate with said convex lens carrier elements to define a plurality of hydrating chambers therebetween, wherein said third robotic assembly assembles said lens transfer plate and said lenses with said second hydration carrier for transport to said subsequent processing station. 27. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said apparatus further includes a plurality of extraction stations for receiving said second hydration carriers and said hydration chambers defined therein. 28. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said automated means further comprises an index conveyor for advancing each of said second hydration carriers through each of said extraction stations. 29. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said mold carrier defines a plurality of openings for receiving said plurality of contact lens molds from said first robotic assembly, each of said openings having a resilient member therein for receiving a one of said contact lens molds. 30. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 29 in which said mold carrier further includes a plurality of magnet steels for cooperating with a plurality of magnets carried by a top chamber plate to secure said mold carrier to said top chamber plate. 31. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 30 in which said top chamber plate supports said plurality of lens transport means, with a single one of said lens transfer means aligned with a single one of said contact lens molds carried by said mold carrier to thereby form a first hydration carrier. 32. An automated apparatus for hydrating a hydrophilic lens, said apparatus comprising: (a) a plurality of carriers, each carrier having (i) a lens transfer plate, said lens transfer plate having a plurality of lens carrier elements, each carrier element having a convex lens attachment surface, and each lens attachment surface defining a fluid port therein for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and a contact lens carrier thereon; (ii) a hydration base, said hydration base defining a plurality of concave lens holding surfaces with a concave lens holding surface associated with a lens carrier element to define a hydration chamber therebetween, each concave lens holding surface also defining a fluid port therein for introducing a fluid between said concave holding surface and a contact lens carrier within said hydration chamber; (b) a plurality of automated extraction stations, each station having a discharge manifold, said discharge manifold cooperating with said carriers to provide a flow of fluid within each hydration chamber; (c) an index transport for conveying each of said hydration bases through each of said plurality of extraction stations; and (d) a controller for sequencing the flow of fluid at each station with the conveyance of each carrier means thereto. 33. An automated apparatus for hydrating a hydrophilic lens as claimed in claim 32 wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into said hydration chambers at each automated extraction station to flush leachable substances from the hydrating chambers. 34. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 33 wherein said apparatus further includes a transport path between each of said automated extraction stations wherein a fluid in said hydration chambers and an incremental residence time on said transport path between each of said extraction stations is used to extract impurities from said contact lens through mass transfer exchange. 35. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 34 wherein said controller controls said incremental residence time and the duration of the flow of deionized water through each hydration chamber. 36. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein each of said lens carrier elements further includes a body portion having a circumferential wall with a plurality of radial openings formed therein, said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the convex lens attachment surface. 37. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said apparatus further comprises a final station for separating said lens transfer plate and said hydration base, said final station having a fluid discharge manifold to supply a fluid to a pivot defined in said convex lens attachment surface to ensure transfer of said lens to said concave lens holding surface prior to separation of said carrier means. 38. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said index transport further includes a walking beam assembly for transporting said carriers through said hydration bath. 39. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said index transport further includes at least one pair of fixed supports and at least one walking beam having a pair of moveable supports for each of said carriers. 40. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 39 wherein said index transport further includes at least two pair of fixed supports for supporting each of said carriers at a diagonal within said hydration tank, and two walking beams, each beam having a pair of moveable supports for each of said carriers. 41. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said transport frame includes a resilient support for centering and supporting each of said contact lens molds during transport. 