A robotic hand on a robot is capable of picking-up several generally flattened articles in a stack form in a gentle non-damaging manner. The robotic hand has a manifold for directing controlled pressure air and a set of gripper finger assemblies extending therefrom. Each finger assembly has a rigid finger support member and an inflatable bladder extending along its length. The bladders are in communication with the chamber of the manifold and an external source of positive and negative pressure air. The robotic hand is capable of positioning itself over an article to be picked-up with the set of gripper finger assemblies encompassing the article. Pressurized air is directed through the manifold and into the bladders of the finger assemblies. The bladders expand sufficiently to grasp sides of the article. The robotic hand is moved to a position over another article wherein the bladders of the finger assemblies are deflated by drawing a vacuum through the manifold to cause the first article to drop onto the second article. Reinflating the bladders causes the gripper finger assemblies to grasp the two articles. The sequence of steps is repeated until a stack of a pre-determined number of articles is formed within the finger assemblies. The robotic hand deposits the stack into an open-top container to ultimately fill the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic hand for use on a robot programmed to pick a plurality of generally flattened articles from a packaging station and deposit the articles in a stacked form into an open-top container, said robotic hand comprising: (a) a manifold with means to attach to the robot, said manifold capable of directing the flow of controlled pressure air; and (b) a set of gripper finger assemblies extending from the manifold and capable of receiving the plurality of the generally flattened articles therewithin in sufficient number to form a stack, each said finger assembly having an elongated rigid finger support member generally rectangularly shaped with a flat face inside surface and an elongated inflatable bladder secured to the flat face inside surface of the finger support member and extending inwardly substantially the length thereof, and further wherein each said bladder is in communication with the manifold to receive the controlled pressure air, whereby when the bladders of the gripper finger assemblies are in a substantially deflated state, the finger assemblies fit over the generally flattened article and when in an inflated state grasp each said article with sufficient force to hold it within the finger assemblies until the robotic hand is positioned directly over another said article to be lifted. 2. The robotic hand of claim 1 wherein the manifold has a mounting flange for attachment to the robot. 3. The robotic hand of claim 2 wherein the manifold has finger mount flanges extending therefrom. 4. The robotic hand of claim 3 wherein the finger mount flanges on the manifold form a square and there are four gripper finger assemblies with a gripper finger assembly positioned in each corner of the square. 5. The robotic hand of claim 4 wherein each rigid finger support member has a channel extending substantially along its length and the elongated inflatable bladder extends in the channel. 6. The robotic hand of claim 5 wherein each of the elongated bladders has a neck extending therefrom and an air connection tube positioned therein. 7. The robotic hand of claim 6 wherein a retaining clamp secures a lower portion of the elongated bladder to the finger support member and a retaining clip secures the neck of the bladder to the finger support member. 8. The robotic hand of claim 4 wherein a planar area within the gripper finger assemblies has a diagonal which is approximately equal to a burger patty diameter. 9. The robotic hand of claim 8 wherein the gripper finger assemblies have a length to accommodate therewithin a stack of from four to twelve burger patties. 10. A method of transferring generally flattened articles from a packaging station to a container in a stack form to ultimately fill the container, said method comprising: (a) conveying the generally flattened articles in an aligned arrangement to a product elevator, said product elevator having is a series of narrow bands spaced sufficiently apart to support the articles thereon; (b) positioning a robotic hand over a first article on the product elevator, said robotic hand connected to a robot programmed to move laterally over each of the articles on the product elevator in a sequence to pick up each said article in a stack form therefrom, wherein the robotic hand comprises (i) a manifold with means for attaching to the robot and capable of directing controlled pressure air and (ii) a set of gripper finger assemblies extending from the manifold to receive the generally flattened articles therewithin, each said finger assembly having an elongated inflatable bladder secured to an inside surface of a finger support member and extending substantially the length thereof and further wherein each said bladder is in communication with the manifold; (c) lowering the robotic hand sufficiently so that at least the tips of the gripper finger assemblies encompass the first article; (d) inflating the bladders in each of the gripper finger assemblies sufficiently to cause them to expand to grasp the article; (e) lifting the robotic hand with the article grasped therewithin; (f) moving the robotic hand laterally to a position directly over a second generally flattened article on the product elevator and lowering said robotic hand; (g) deflating the bladders in the gripper finger assemblies to drop the first article on the second article to form a stack and further to encompass said stack with the gripper finger assemblies; (h) reinflating the bladders of the gripper finger assemblies of the robotic hand to grasp the sides of the first and second articles; (i) repeating the above steps of picking-up generally flattened articles in the robotic hand until a stack of a desired number of articles within the gripper finger assemblies is formed; and (j) depositing the articles from the robotic hand into the container in a stack form. 11. A robotic hand for use on a robot programmed to pick a plurality of generally flattened articles from a packaging station and deposit the articles in a stacked form into an open-top container, said robotic hand comprising: (a) a manifold with means to attach to the robot, said manifold capable of directing the flow of controlled pressure air; and (b) a set of gripper finger assemblies extending from the manifold to receive the generally flattened articles therewithin in sufficient number to form a stack, each said finger assembly having a rigid finger support member having a channel extending along an inside surface of the finger support member substantially along full length of the finger support member and an elongated inflatable bladder secured in the channel of the finger support member and extending substantially the length of the channel, and further wherein each said bladder is in communication with the manifold to receive the controlled pressure air, whereby when the bladders of the gripper finger assemblies are in a substantially deflated state, the finger assemblies fit over the generally flattened article and when in an inflated state grasp each said article with sufficient force to hold it within the finger assemblies until the robotic hand is positioned directly over another said article to be lifted. 12. The robotic hand of claim 11 wherein the manifold has finger mount flanges extending therefrom. 13. The robotic hand of claim 12 wherein the finger mount flanges on the manifold form a square and there are four gripper finger assemblies with a gripper finger assembly positioned in each corner of the square. 14. The robotic hand of claim 13 wherein each of the elongated bladders has a neck extending therefrom and an air connection tube positioned therein. 15. The robotic hand of claim 14 wherein a retaining clamp secures a lower portion of the elongated bladder to the finger support member and a retaining clip secures the neck of the bladder to the finger support member. 16. The robotic hand of claim 15 wherein a planar area within the gripper finger assemblies has a diagonal which is approximately equal to a burger patty diameter. 17. The robotic hand of claim 16 wherein the gripper finger assemblies have a length to accommodate therewithin a stack of from four to twelve burger patties. 