Automated electrophoresis is performed by applying a cover plate to a substrate having a plurality of electrophoresis lanes, applying at least one sample to the plurality of electrophoresis lanes, electrophoresing the at least one sample, removing the cover plate from the substrate, and washing the substrate. Thereafter, the aforementioned steps are repeated using the same substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated method of electrophoresis comprising the steps of: applying a cover plate to a first substrate having a first at least one electrophoresis lane; applying at least one sample to a second substrate having a second at least one electrophoresis lane; electrophoresing at least one sample within a third at least one electrophoresis lane of a third substrate; removing a cover plate from a fourth substrate having a fourth at least one electrophoresis lane; and washing a fifth substrate having a fifth at least one electrophoresis lane; wherein each of the above steps is performed concurrently with at least another one of the above steps. 2. An automated electrophoresis system for processing a plurality of substrates each having at least one electrophoresis lane, the electrophoresis system comprising: a cover plate applicator; a sample applicator; an electrophoresis station; a cover plate separator; and a substrate cleaning station; wherein each of the cover plate applicator, the sample applicator, the electrophoresis station, the cover plate separator, and the substrate cleaning station operates concurrently with at least another one of the aforementioned elements. 3. The electrophoresis system of claim 2 further comprising a gel applicator which operates concurrently with at least one of the cover plate applicator, the sample applicator, the electrophoresis station, the cover plate separator, and the substrate cleaning station. 4. The electrophoresis system of claim 2 wherein the electrophoresis station contemporaneously electrophoreses at least two of the plurality of substrates. 5. The electrophoresis system of claim 4 wherein the electrophoresis station includes a receiver, and wherein each of the at least two of the plurality of substrates has a corresponding transmitter in the electrophoresis station for wirelessly communicating with the receiver. 6. The electrophoresis system of claim 4 wherein the electrophoresis station includes a tag communicating device, and wherein each of the at least two of the plurality of substrates has a corresponding radio frequency tag in the electrophoresis station for wirelessly communicating with the tag communicating device. 7. Automated method for electrophoresis comprising the steps of: providing a cover plate applicator; applying a first at least one sample to a first substrate having a first at least one electrophoresis lane; after applying the first at least one sample to the first substrate, applying a first cover plate to the first substrate using the cover plate applicator and applying a second at least one sample to a second substrate having a second at least one electrophoresis lane; and after applying the first cover plate to the first substrate and applying the second at least one sample to the second substrate, applying a second cover plate to the second substrate using the cover plate applicator and applying a third at least one sample to a third substrate having a third at least one electrophoresis lane. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of, after applying the second cover plate to the second substrate and applying the third at least one sample to the third substrate, applying a third cover plate to the third substrate using the cover plate applicator. 9. The method of claim 7 further comprising the steps of: electrophoresing the first at least one sample in the first at least one electrophoresis lane; and electrophoresing the second at least one sample in the second at least one electrophoresis lane. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the steps of electrophoresing the first at least one sample and electrophoresing the second at least one sample are performed contemporaneously. 11. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of providing a sample applicator, wherein the steps of applying the first at least one sample, applying the second at least one sample, and applying the third at least one sample are performed by the sample applicator. 12. An automated method for electrophoresis comprising the steps of: providing a cover plate applicator; applying a first cover plate to a first substrate using the cover plate applicator, the first substrate having a first at least one electrophoresis lane; after applying the first cover plate to the first substrate, applying a first at least one sample to the first substrate and applying a second cover plate to a second substrate using the cover plate applicator, the second substrate having a second at least one electrophoresis lane; and after applying the first at least one sample to the first substrate and applying the second cover plate to the second substrate, applying a second at least one sample to the second substrate and applying a third cover plate to a third substrate using the cover plate applicator, wherein the third substrate has a third at least one electrophoresis lane. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of, after applying the second at least one sample to the second substrate and applying the third cover plate to the third substrate, applying a third at least one sample to the third substrate. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: electrophoresing the first at least one sample in the first at least one electrophoresis lane; and electrophoresing the second at least one sample in the second at least one electrophoresis lane. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the steps of electrophoresing the first at least one sample and electrophoresing the second at least one sample are performed contemporaneously. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of providing a sample applicator, wherein the steps of applying the first at least one sample and applying the second at least one sample are performed by the sample applicator. 17. A system comprising: a cover plate applicator; and a sample applicator; wherein the sample applicator is to apply a first at least one sample to a first substrate having a first at least one electrophoresis lane; wherein the cover plate applicator is to apply a first cover plate to the first substrate after the first at least one sample has been applied thereto; wherein after applying the first at least one sample, the sample applicator is to apply a second at least one sample to a second substrate having a second at least one electrophoresis lane; and wherein after the first cover plate has been applied to the first substrate and the second at least one sample has been applied to the second substrate, the cover plate applicator is to apply a second cover plate to the second substrate and the sample applicator is to apply a third at least one sample to a third substrate having a third at least one electrophoresis lane. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein after applying the second cover plate to the second substrate and after the third at least one sample has been applied to the third substrate, the cover plate applicator is to apply a third cover plate to the third substrate. 19. The system of claim 17 further comprising an electrophoresis station to electrophorese the first at least one sample in the first at least one electrophoresis lane and to electrophorese the second at least one sample in the second at least one electrophoresis lane. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the electrophoresis station contemporaneously electrophoreses the first at least one sample and the second at least one sample. 21. An electrophoresis system comprising: a cover plate applicator; and a sample applicator; wherein the cover plate applicator is to apply a first cover plate to a first substrate having a first at least one electrophoresis lane; wherein after the first cover plate has been applied to the first substrate, the sample applicator is to apply a first at least one sample to the first substrate and the cover plate applicator is to apply a second cover plate to a second substrate having a second at least one electrophoresis lane; and wherein after the first at least one sample has been applied to the first substrate and the second cover plate has been applied to the second substrate, the sample applicator is to apply a second at least one sample to the second substrate and the cover plate applicator is to apply a third cover plate to a third substrate having a third at least one electrophoresis lane. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein after applying the second at least one sample to the second substrate and after the third cover plate has been applied to the third substrate, the sample applicator is to apply a third at least one sample to the third substrate. 23. The system of claim 21 further comprising an electrophoresis station to electrophorese the first at least one sample in the first at least one electrophoresis lane and to electrophorese the second at least one sample in the second at least one electrophoresis lane. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein the electrophoresis station contemporaneously electrophoreses the first at least one sample and the second at least one sample. 