A system for simultaneously treating multiple workpieces is configured with treatment sites, configured to hold respective workpieces, fixed on a rotatable base. Treatment stations are equipped with respective active components operable simultaneously to treat respective workpieces identically on respective aligned treatment sites. For loading and unloading the treatment sites are rotated through distinct loading and unloading stations of the treatment stations which allow loading of a second batch while a first batch is being unloaded.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of simultaneously treating a plurality of workpieces, the method comprising: a) configuring a chamber with i) a plurality of nonoverlapping pairs of substantially identical sites, ii) a plurality of substantially identical stations, equal in number to the sites, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations distinct from the loading stations, each configured with a lower heat-transfer body and an upper heat-transfer body, iii) a base, disposed between the lower heat-transfer bodies and the upper heat-transfer bodies, on which the sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each of the pairs of sites in turn with the loading stations and the unloading stations; b) alternately, until all of the sites bear respective workpieces, at each loading station, loading a workpiece onto a vacant site and rotating the base to align a pair of vacant sites with the loading stations; and c) holding the base stationary while, in all of the stations simultaneously, treating the workpieces identically by moving the lower heat-transfer bodies toward respective workpieces and operating the upper and lower heat-transfer bodies to heat respective workpieces on all of the sites, aligned with respective stations. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein treating the workpieces causes, in each of the stations, a semiconductor wafer, implanted with atoms defining a cleave plane, and a substrate to form a bonded structure. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein treating the workpieces causes, in each of the stations, a semiconductor wafer, implanted with atoms defining a cleave plane, bonded to a substrate to exfoliate a lamina bonded to the substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the lamina is at least 1 .mu.m thick. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein each site comprises a first shelf, having a vertical wall and a horizontal surface, disposed around a space, configured to confine a body. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein in each station moving the lower heat-transfer body comprises raising the lower heat-transfer body into the space of an aligned site, thereby lifting a body loaded onto the aligned site above its horizontal surface. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising, in each station, pressing a workpiece loaded onto an aligned site between the lower and upper heat-transfer bodies. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the sites are four in number. 9. A method of simultaneously treating a plurality of workpieces, the method comprising: a) configuring a chamber with i) a plurality of substantially identical sites each configured to hold a workpiece, ii) a plurality of substantially identical stations, equal in number to the sites, comprising one or more loading stations each for receiving a workpiece for treatment and one or more unloading stations each for removing a workpiece after treatment, wherein the loading and unloading stations are mutually distinct and each of the stations is configured with an active component, movable within the station and iii) a base on which the sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each of the sites in turn with respective stations for receiving a workpiece for treatment and removing a workpiece after treatment; b) alternately, until all of the sites bear respective workpieces for treatment, at each loading station, loading a workpiece onto a vacant site and rotating the base to an orientation in which each loading station has a vacant site aligned therewith; and c) holding the base stationary while moving all of the active components toward respective workpieces aligned with respective stations, thereby treating the workpieces identically and simultaneously. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein at each of the stations the active component is a heat-transfer body and further comprising coupling electromagnetic energy to all of the active components, thereby heating respective workpieces to at least 300.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein each of the workpieces comprises a first body and a second body, and treating the workpieces causes, at each of the sites, the first body and the second body to form a bonded structure. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein each of the workpieces comprises a first body, implanted with atoms defining a cleave plane, bonded to a second body and treating the workpieces causes, at each of the sites, the first body to exfoliate a lamina bonded to the second body. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the lamina is at least 1 .mu.m thick. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the lamina and the second body constitute a lamina-receiver assembly suitable for fabrication of a photovoltaic device. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein each of the workpieces comprises a first body and a second body, one of the first and second bodies being square. 16. The method of claim 9 further comprising, alternately, until none of the sites bears a workpiece treated by moving the active components, at each unloading station, removing a workpiece from a nonvacant site, and rotating the base to an orientation in which each unloading station has a nonvacant site aligned therewith. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein removing a workpiece treated by moving the active components occurs concurrently with loading a workpiece onto a vacant site at each loading station. 18. The method of claim 9 wherein the chamber is configured with an enclosure having an input gate and an output gate and housing the sites, loading a workpiece onto a vacant site in each loading station occurs through the input gate, and removing a treated workpiece from a nonvacant site in each unloading station occurs through the output gate. 19. The method of claim 9 wherein treating the workpieces further comprises applying respective voltages across the workpieces through respective active components. 20. The method of claim 9 wherein each of the workpieces comprises a first body and second body and loading a workpiece onto a vacant site comprises moving the first and second bodies onto the vacant site simultaneously. 21. The method of claim 9 wherein removing a treated workpiece from a nonvacant site in each unloading station comprises removing a workpiece from each of two or more unloading stations simultaneously. 