A pickup system comprising a robot having a gripping member fitted with a camera for acquiring an image of the object to be picked up, which image is supplied to a control section by which it is processed for determining a predetermined point, typically the center, of the object by generating shifted inverted images of the object and intersecting the shifted inverted images and the original image.
Claims We claim: 1. An automatic pickup system of a robot having an articulated arm with a gripping member for gripping an object, comprising: a control system that controls operations of said articulated arm; an optical system that generates an image of at least one portion of said object, said image being composed of a plurality of pixels; and a processing system that determines a true center of said object by coining said generated image with an inverted image of said generated image that is shifted in one of a plurality of directions by a predetermined amount relative to said generated image to produce a new image, said inverted image of said generated image being successively shifted a plurality of times in different directions to produce a plurality of new images, said generated image being combined with said shifted inverted image by an AND operation that is performed after each shift of said inverted image, each new image being shifted by a predetermined amount related to a known radius of an aperture in said object, said plurality of new images being intersected together by an AND operation to produce a central square, coordinates of a center of said central square representing said true center of said object, so as to enable said robot to locate and grip said object using said articulated arm. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a digitizer that digitizes said generated image. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said processing system determines pixels common to said plurality of new images and said generated image. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein each pixel of said plurality of pixels has a discrete value proportional to a luminance of said each pixel in said at least one portion, said discrete value ranging between a minimum value and a maximum value, said processing system comprising means for comparing said discrete value of each pixel with a threshold value, and for generating a reference matrix, said reference matrix comprising a number of pixels having a logic binary value. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said comparing means comprises means for determining relative frequencies of said discrete values of said pixels, and means for generating threshold value on the basis of said relative frequencies. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein said processing system further comprises an inverter that generates an inverted matrix, in which associated pixels have an inverted binary value as compared with corresponding pixels in said reference matrix. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said processing system further comprises a first shifter that generates a plurality of first shifted matrices by effecting first shifts of said pixels associated with said inverted matrix, said first shifted matrices being shifted in said plurality of directions. 8. A method for automatically picking up an object using a robot having an articulated arm fitted with a gripping member, the robot being controlled by a control section, comprising the steps of: producing an image of at least one portion of the object with an optical system associated with the gripping member, the image being formed by a plurality of pixels; and determining a true center of the image by combining the produced image with an inverted image of the produced image that is shifted by a predetermined amount in one of a plurality of directions relative to the produced image, the inverted image of the produced image being successively shifted a plurality of times in different directions to create a plurality of new images, the produced image being combined with the shifted inverted image by an AND operation that is performed after each shift of the inverted image, each new image being shifted by a predetermined amount related to a known radius of an aperture in said object, the plurality of new images being intersected together by an AND operation to obtain a central square, coordinates of a center of the central square representing the true center of the object, so as to enable the robot to locate and grip the object using the articulated arm. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of digitizing the produced image. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining step comprises shifting the inverted image by a number of pixels in relation to the plurality of pixels of the digitized image to enable a determination of common points. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein each pixel of the plurality of pixels forming the digitized image has a discrete value proportional to a luminance of each pixel in the at least one portion of the object, the discrete value ranging between a minimum value and a maximum value, the determining step comprising the step of comparing the discrete value of each pixel with a threshold value, and generating a reference matrix having a number of associated pixels having a logic binary value. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of determining relative frequencies of the discrete value, the threshold value being generated on the basis of the relative frequencies. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of generating an inverted matrix, the inverted matrix having a number of pixels with an inverted binary value as compared with corresponding pixels in the reference matrix. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of generating a number of first shifted matrices by effecting first shifts in different directions with respect to the pixels in the inverted matrix. 15. A method for automatically picking up an object using a robot having an articulated arm fitted with a gripping member, the robot being controlled by a control section, comprising the steps of: (a) acquiring an image of the object and producing a plurality of pixel values corresponding to a luminance of respective pixels forming the image; (b) determining a threshold value to discriminate the plurality of pixels; (c) comparing the plurality of pixels with the threshold value to assign values representing whether each of the plurality of pixels is above or below the threshold value; (d) creating an inverted image of the acquired image; (e) shifting the inverted image in a direction with respect to the acquired image by a first predetermined distance; (f) AND'ing the acquired image and the shifted inverted image to create a summed image representing areas where an overlap of the acquired image and the successively shifted inverted image are canceled; (g) shifting the summed image by a predetermined amount related to a known radius in the object; (h) repeating steps (e) through (g) a plurality of times, each shifting being successively performed in a direction that differs from a previous direction to create a plurality of summed images; (i) AND'ing the plurality of summed images to produce a central square in which coordinates of a center of the central square determine a true center of the object; and (j) controlling an operation of the robot in accordance with the determined true center of the object so as to enable the robot to locate and grip the object using the articulated arm. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the object comprises a reel of strip material. 