A transfer system for transferring objects into a barrier isolator is provided. The transfer system includes a port opening located in a barrier wall to provide access to an isolated space. A port barrier film is sealingly located over the port opening, with the port barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the isolated space and a second side which is exposed. A container adapted to hold the objects to be delivered through the port opening and into the isolated space is provided. A container barrier film is sealingly engaged to the container opening such that decontaminated objects sealed within the cavity in the container remain decontaminated. The container barrier film has a first, decontaminated side which faces the cavity and a second exposed side. The container barrier film is positioned adjacent to the port barrier film, and a parting and sealing element, located within the isolated space is adapted to part the container and port barrier films to form a transfer opening having edges in the port and container barrier films and to simultaneously seal together and decontaminate the edges of the port and container barrier films such that the exposed and potentially contaminated second sides of the port and container barrier films are locked together and remain isolated from the isolated space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transfer system for transferring objects into a barrier isolator which includes a barrier wall to maintain a decontaminated environment in an isolated space, the transfer system comprising: a port opening located in the barrier wall to provide access to the isolated space; a port barrier film sealingly located over the port opening, the port barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the isolated space and a second side which is exposed; a container adapted to hold the objects to be delivered through the port opening and into the isolated space, the container having an interior cavity adapted to receive decontaminated objects, an exposed exterior, and a flange; a container barrier film sealingly engaged to the flange such that decontaminated objects are adapted to be sealed within the cavity in the container and remain decontaminated in the cavity, the container barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the cavity, and a second exposed side; a holder located adjacent to the port opening and adapted to position the container adjacent to the port opening, with the second side of the port barrier film in facing engagement with the second side of the container barrier film; a parting and sealing element located within the isolated space adjacent to the port opening, mounted for movement from a first position to a second, in-use position adjacent to the first side of the port barrier film, where the parting and sealing element is adapted to part the port and container barrier films to define a transfer opening having edges in the port and container barrier films and to simultaneously seal together and decontaminate the edges of the port and container barrier films such that the exposed and potentially contaminated second sides of the port and container barrier films are locked together and remain isolated from the isolated space, whereby the objects from within the container cavity can be passed through the transfer opening and into the isolated space while maintaining the decontaminated environment. 2. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the parting and sealing element is aligned with the flange, and a shield is located on the flange to prevent the parting and sealing element from acting on the flange. 3. The transfer system of claim 2 wherein the shield prevents the barrier films from adhering to a portion of the flange. 4. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the parting and sealing element is aligned along an inside edge of the flange, and an external member applies external pressure to the container for support to part the barrier films. 5. The transfer system of claim 1 further comprising a reinforcement extending around the port opening in the barrier wall, the reinforcement having a surface which surrounds the port opening and a depth, a plurality of spaced apart, annular seals being located on the surface, the port barrier film being mounted in a frame having an outer periphery which is complementary to the port opening, such that the outer periphery of the frame is sealingly engaged by at least one annular seal and is slidably displacable through the port opening. 6. The transfer system of claim 5 wherein a plurality of frames are located within the contained space, each frame having a port barrier film attached thereto and a thickness, and the depth of the reinforcement surface being greater than the thickness of two frames such that a first frame with an associated container connected by the parted and sealed barrier films can be displaced outwardly from the port opening while a second frame is sealingly engaged by at least one annular seal in the port opening to maintain isolation of the isolated space as the first frame is removed. 7. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the parting and sealing element is adapted to simultaneously seal together and part the port and container barrier films along edges to form a flap. 8. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the port barrier film is provided as a pre-sterilized roll of material and is dispensed across the port opening. 9. The transfer system of claim 8 wherein the pre-sterilized roll of the port barrier film is rotatably supported in a microbial kill housing located adjacent to the port opening. 10. The transfer system of claim 1 further comprising a flap support which is movable between a first position, in which the flap support is adapted to engage a flap formed by a parted portion of the port and container barrier films and to hold the flap in a closed position, and a second position, in which the support moves away from the port opening and allows the flap to open. 11. The transfer system of claim 1 wherein the parting and sealing element is a heating element. 12. A transfer system for transferring objects into a barrier isolator which includes a barrier wall to maintain a decontaminated environment in an isolated space, the transfer system comprising: a port opening located in the barrier wall to provide access to the isolated space; a port barrier film sealingly located on the port opening, the port barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the isolated space and a second side which is exposed; a container adapted to hold the objects to be delivered through the port opening and into the isolated space, the container having an interior cavity adapted to receive decontaminated objects, an exposed exterior, and a flange; a container barrier film sealingly engaged to the flange such that decontaminated objects are adapted to be sealed within the cavity in the container and remain decontaminated in the cavity, the container barrier film having a first, decontaminated side which faces the cavity, and a second exposed side; a holder located adjacent to the port opening and adapted to position the container adjacent to the port opening, with the second side of the port barrier film in facing engagement with the second side of the container barrier film; and a heating element located within the isolated space adjacent to the port opening and alignable with at least a portion of the port and container barrier films. 13. A method of supplying decontaminated objects to a decontaminated environment in an isolated space delimited by a barrier wall, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a port opening in the barrier wall having a port barrier film with a first, decontaminated side facing the isolated space to close-off the isolated space and a second exposed side; (b) clamping a container to the port opening, the container having a decontaminated interior cavity with decontaminated objects sealed within the cavity by a container barrier film, the container barrier film having a first decontaminated side and a second exposed side, the second side of the port barrier film being in facing engagement with the second side of the container barrier film; (c) simultaneously creating a transfer opening in the port and container barrier films and sealing together edges formed around the transfer opening in the port and container barrier films with a parting and sealing element located inside the contained space; and (d) transferring the decontaminated objects from within the container, through the transfer opening in the port and container barrier films, and into the isolated space. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: (e) sealing the port opening with a next port barrier film; (f) removing the sealed together port and container barrier films with the container. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of: (g) providing a next container; (h) repeating steps (b), (c) and (d) with the next port barrier film and the next container. 