A method for the determination of the surface properties of an object which comprises irradiating the surface of interest with an incident beam of radiation from an optical source, detecting by a detector radiation from the beam scattered by the surface, the detector being located at a predetermined position relative to the surface and the optical source and digitizing and analyzing the image detected by the detector, wherein the incident beam has in cross-section a two dimensional envelope and within the envelope an intensity structure which has multiple edges running in more than one direction which provide information about components of the structure of the beam and the analysis of the image is a two dimensional analysis of the intensity shape and structure of the scattered radiation to provide information about the manner in which the incident beam intensity shape and structure has been changed by scattering at the surface of the object.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for the determination of the surface properties of an object which method comprises: irradiating the surface of interest with an incident beam of radiation from the optical source, detecting by a detector radiation from said beam scattered by the surface, the detector being located at a predetermined position relative to the surface and the optical source; and digitizing and analyzing the image detected by the detector, wherein the incident beam has in two dimensional cross-section an intensity distribution which has at least two non-parallel intensity distribution edges, each edge including an intensity change across the edge, the analysis of the image comprising a two dimensional analysis of intensity shape and structure of the scattered radiation to provide information about the manner in which the incident beam intensity shape and structure has been changed by scattering at the surface of the object. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the incident beam comprises a laser beam. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the beam shape and structure comprises a two dimensional region which includes at least one of a cross, a cross in a circle, a cross in a rectangle, a multirectangular grid, multiple small circles in a larger circle, and concentric circles. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the beam produced by the optical source is passed through one of a beam expander and beam diffuser/integrator as well as an aperture imposing said intensity distribution upon the cross-sectional structure of the beam, which constitutes said incident beam. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein the detector means for detecting scattered radiation comprises a video camera system or other two-dimensional photodetector. 6. A method as in claim 1 wherein the incident beam directed at the surface of the object is applied in pulses by application of a control waveform to the power supplied to the optical source, the image signal produced by the detector being referenced to a corresponding reference waveform. 7. A method as in claim 1 wherein radiation scattered by said surface is passed through an optical filter prior to detection by the detector. 8. A method as in claim 1 further including the steps of: thermally treating said object to form a meltpool or hot spot; and detecting radiation radiated by the meltpool or hot spot by means of a detector to form an image of the meltpool. 9. A method as in claim 1 wherein signals produced by detection, digitization and analysis of the image of the scattered radiation are applied to a robotic device or manipulator arranged to carry out operations on the object or on a means to treat the object. 10. A method as in claim 1 wherein the object being investigated is part of a nuclear plant which is being serviced, repaired or decommissioned in a remotely controlled environment. 