For primary use in a storage and retrieval subsystem in a data processing system, a robotic transfer system acts to transfer selected electronic magnetic storage cartridges between their storage and transducing positions, typically between vertically stacked concentric tape storage holders and a selected tape drive. The robotic transfer system for handling tape cartridges includes two hands, each mounted on a separate vertical axis disposed at opposite ends of a balanced rotating horizontal axis, such that no tape cartridge is ever more than 90.degree. away from the nearest hand. The use of two hands also provides a redundant data retrieval capability without concentrating the weight of two hands at a single end of a revolving horizontal arm, thus reducing the moments generated by angular movement and providing for faster tape access time and greater long-term system reliability.
Claims We claim: 1. For use in an automated retrieval system, a balanced horizontal axis assembly, comprising: a balanced horizontal beam having a first end and a second end; a rotational servo connected to said beam at a central pivot point for rotating said beam about said central pivot point; a plurality of vertical supports, one of said vertical supports attached to each of said first and second ends of said beam, such that a first portion of the vertical support resides above said beam and a second portion of said vertical support resides beneath said beam; a plurality of gripping means for gripping data storage objects to be retrieved; and means for movably attaching at least one of said gripping means to traverse each of said vertical supports. 2. A balanced horizontal axis assembly as in claim 1, wherein each gripping means comprises: a hand for grasping an object; and optical means for aligning the hand with the object. 3. A balanced horizontal axis assembly as in claim 1 further comprising: means operable in response to a command to retrieve an object for controlling said rotational servo to rotate said horizontal member the shortest angular distance required to align one of said gripping means with the object. 