An ambulatory (in the home) patient health monitoring system is disclosed wherein the patient is monitored by a health care worker at a central station, while the patient is at a remote location. The patient may be a person having a specific medical condition monitored or may be an elderly person desiring general medical surveillance in the home environment. Cameras are provided at the patient's remote location and at the central station such that the patient and the health care worker are in interactive visual and audio communication. A communications network such as an interactive cable television is used for this purpose. Various medical condition sensing and monitoring equipment are placed in the patient's home, depending on the particular medical needs of the patient. The patient's medical condition is measured or sensed in the home and the resulting data is transmitted to the central station for analysis and display. The health care worker then is placed into interactive visual communication with the patient concerning the patient's general well being, as well as the patient's medical condition. Thus, the health care worker can make "home visits" electronically, twenty-four hours a day.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive system for monitoring a patient's condition by a health practitioner, said patient located at a remote location from a central monitoring station and capable of mobility so as to exercise gait, said health practitioner located at the central station, the system comprising: a) first audio-visual means for generating a first audio-visual signal of said patient at the remote location; b) means for measuring a medical condition of said patient at the remote location, said means for measuring including means for visually marking specified anatomical locations on the body of said patient for measurement of a gait of said patient; c) means for generating a :medical signal representative of the measured medical condition, said means for generating including the visual transmission signal of the specified anatomical locations and the changes in said anatomical locations in response to changes in patient location and position within the visual field of the means for generating a visual signal; d) a central monitoring station; e) means for transmission of said first audio-visual signal to said central station; f) means for transmission simultaneously of the medical signal to said central station; g) display means at said central station for substantially simultaneous display of said first audio-visual signal and said medical signal, said display means further including means for recordal and analysis of the anatomical location measurements of said patient; h) second audio-visual means for generating a second audio-visual signal of said health practitioner originating from said central station; i) means for transmission of said second audio-visual signal to said remote location; and j) means for display of said second audio-visual signal at said remote location for observation by the patient simultaneously with transmission of the first audio-visual transmission; whereby said patient and said health practitioner are capable of substantially simultaneous interactive communication concerning said measured medical condition. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the means for analysis further includes memory means for recording anatomical location measurements for said patient. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the means for analysis further includes comparison means for comparing the recorded anatomical location measurements with measurements stored in the memory means. 4. A health monitoring system as set forth in claim 1 further including additional apparatus for monitoring a patient's medical condition in a remote location and for transmission of medical condition information to a central station, comprising: at least one electrode for attachment to said patient's body; at least one miniature transmitter receiving signals from said at least one electrode and transmitting said signals; and a receiver comprising a receiver unit for receiving said transmitted signals from said miniature transmitter; a loop memory for storing said signals for a predetermined short-term time period; and a long-term memory for storing said signals from said loop memory for a long-term time period. 5. A system as set forth in claim 1 further including a modular medical condition sensing and display apparatus for use in a patient's home, comprising, a) a housing suitable for placement on an armrest of a chair; b) at least one medical condition sensor adapted to said housing for measurement of a medical parameter of said patient when said patient places their arm on said housing; and c) a display attached to said housing for display of said measurement of said medical parameter. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said display is movably mounted to said housing thereby permitting said display to be moved to a vertical orientation. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein said housing is elongate and flexible, thereby permitting said housing to rest on a wide variety of surfaces. 8. The system of claim 5 wherein said condition sensing and display apparatus further comprise sensors for measuring temperature and blood pressure of said patient. 9. The interactive patient monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising means for remote control from said central station of said first audio-visual means. 10. An interactive system for monitoring a patient's condition by a health practitioner, said patient located at a remote location from a central monitoring station, said health practitioner located at the central station, the system comprising: a) first audio-visual means for generating a first audio-visual signal of said patient at the remote location; b) means for measuring a medical condition of said patient at the remote location, said means for measuring including means for visually marking specified anatomical locations on the body of said patient for measurement of the mobility of said patient; c) means for generating a medical signal representative of the measured medical condition, said means for generating including the visual transmission signal of the specified anatomical locations and the changes in said anatomical locations in response to changes in patient location and position within the visual field of the means for generating a visual signal; d) a central monitoring station; e) means for transmission of said first audio-visual signal to said central station; f) means for transmission simultaneously of the medical signal to said central station; g) display :means at said central station for substantially simultaneous display of said first audio-visual signal and said medical signal, said display means further including means for recordal and analysis of the anatomical location measurements of said patient; h) second audio-visual means for generating a second audio-visual signal of said health practitioner originating from said central station; i) means for transmission of said second audio-visual signal to said remote location; and j) means for display of said second audio-visual signal at said remote location for observation by the patient simultaneously with transmission of the first audio-visual transmission; whereby said patient and said health practitioner are capable of substantially simultaneous interactive communication concerning said measured medical condition. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the means for analysis further includes memory means for recording anatomical location measurements for said patient. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the means for analysis further includes comparison means for comparing the recorded anatomical location measurements with measurements stored in the memory means. 13. A system as set forth in claim 10 further including a modular medical condition sensing and display apparatus for use in a patient's home, comprising, a) a housing suitable for placement on an armrest of a chair; b) at least one medical condition sensor adapted to said housing for measurement of a medical parameter of said patient when said patient places their arm on said housing; and c) a display attached to said housing for display of said measurement of said medical parameter. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein said display is movably mounted to said housing thereby permitting said display to be moved to a vertical orientation. 15. The system of claim 13 wherein said housing is elongate and flexible, thereby permitting said housing to rest on a wide variety of surfaces. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein said condition sensing and display apparatus further comprise sensors for measuring temperature and blood pressure of said patient. 17. The interactive patient monitoring system of claim 10, further comprising means for remote control from said central station of said first audio-visual means. 18. A health monitoring system as set forth in claim 10 further including additional apparatus for monitoring a patient's medical condition in a remote location and for transmission of medical condition information to a central station, comprising: at least one electrode for attachment to said patient's body; at least one miniature transmitter receiving signals from said at least one electrode and transmitting said signals; and a receiver comprising a receiver unit for receiving said transmitted signals from said miniature transmitter; a loop memory for storing said signals for a predetermined short-term time period; a long-term memory for storing said signals from said loop memory for a long-term time period. 19. An interactive system for monitoring a patient's condition by a health practitioner, said patient located at a remote location from a central monitoring station and capable of exhibiting a visual field., said health practitioner located at the central station, the system comprising: a) first audio-visual means for generating a first audio-visual signal of said patient at the remote location; b) means for measuring a medical condition of said patient at the remote location, said means for measuring including means for visually marking specified anatomical locations on the body of said patient for measurement of the visual field of said patient. c) means for generating a medical signal representative of the measured medical condition, said means for generating including the visual transmission signal of the specified anatomical locations and the changes in said anatomical locations in response to changes in patient location and position within the visual field of the means for generating a visual signal; d) a central monitoring station; e) means for transmission of said first audio-visual signal to said central station; f) means for transmission simultaneously of the medical signal to said central station; g) display means at said central station for substantially simultaneous display of said first audio-visual signal and said medical signal, said display means further including means for recordal and analysis of the anatomical location measurements of said patient; h) second audio-visual means for generating a second audio-visual signal of said health practitioner originating from said central station; i) means for transmission of said second audio-visual signal to said remote location; and j) means for display of said second audio-visual signal at said remote location for observation by the patient simultaneously with transmission of the first audio-visual transmission; whereby said patient and said health practitioner are capable of substantially simultaneous interactive communication concerning said measured medical condition. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the means for analysis further includes memory means for recording anatomical location measurements for said patient. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the means for analysis further includes comparison means for comparing the recorded anatomical location measurements with measurements stored in the memory means. 22. A system as set forth in claim 19 further including a modular medical condition sensing and display apparatus for use in a patient's home, comprising, a) a housing suitable for placement on an armrest of a chair; b) at least one medical condition sensor adapted to said housing for measurement of a medical parameter of said patient when said patient places their arm on said housing; and c) a display attached to said housing for display of said measurement of said medical parameter. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein said display is movably mounted to said housing thereby permitting said display to be moved to a vertical orientation. 24. The system of claim 22 wherein said housing is elongate and flexible, thereby permitting said housing to rest on a wide variety of surfaces. 25. The system of claim 22 wherein said condition sensing and display apparatus further comprise sensors for measuring temperature and blood pressure of said patient. 26. The interactive patient monitoring system of claim 19, further comprising means for remote control from said central station of said first audio-visual means. 27. A health monitoring system as set forth in claim 19 further including additional apparatus for monitoring a patient's medical condition in a remote location and for transmission of medical condition information to a central station, comprising: at least one electrode for attachment to said patient's body; at least one miniature transmitter receiving signals from said at least one electrode and transmitting said signals; and a receiver comprising a receiver unit for receiving said transmitted signals from said miniature transmitter; a loop memory for storing said signals for a predetermined short-term time period; a long-term memory for storing said signals from said loop memory for a long-term time period; and means for allowing transmission of said signals to said central station. 28. An interactive system for monitoring a patient's condition by a health practitioner, said patient located at a remote location from a central monitoring station, said health practitioner located at the central station, the system comprising: a) first audio-visual means for generating a first audio-visual signal of said patient at the remote location; b) means for measuring a medical condition of said patient at the remote location, said means for measuring including means for visually marking specified anatomical locations on the body of said patient for measurement of visual acuity of said patient; c) means for generating a medical signal representative of the measured medical condition, said means for generating including the visual transmission signal of the specified anatomical locations and the changes in said anatomical locations in response to changes in patient location and position within the visual field of the means for generating a visual signal; d) a central monitoring station; e) means for transmission of said first audio-visual signal to said central station; f) means for transmission simultaneously of the medical signal to said central station; g) display means at said central station for substantially simultaneous display of said first audio-visual signal and said medical signal, said display means further including means for recordal and analysis of the anatomical location measurements of said patient; h) second audio-visual means for generating a second audio-visual signal of said health practitioner originating from said central station; i) means for transmission of said second audio-visual signal to said remote location; and j) means for display of said second audio-visual signal at said remote location for observation by the patient simultaneously with transmission of the first audio-visual transmission; whereby said patient and said health practitioner are capable of substantially simultaneous interactive communication concerning said measured medical condition. 29. The system of claim 28 wherein the means for analysis further includes memory means for recording anatomical location measurements for said patient. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein the means for analysis further includes comparison means for comparing the recorded anatomical location measurements with measurements stored in the memory means. 31. A system as set forth in claim 28 further including a modular medical condition sensing and display apparatus for use in a patient's home, comprising, in combination, a) a housing suitable for placement on an armrest of a chair; b) at least one medical condition sensor adapted to said housing for measurement of a medical parameter of said patient when said patient places their arm on said housing; and c) a display attached to said housing for display of said measurement of said medical parameter. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein said display is movably mounted to said housing thereby permitting said display to be moved to a vertical orientation. 33. The system of claim 31 wherein said housing is elongate and flexible, thereby permitting said housing to rest on a wide variety of surfaces. 34. The system of claim 31 wherein said condition sensing and display apparatus further comprise sensors for measuring the temperature and blood pressure of said patient. 35. The interactive patient monitoring system of claim 28, further comprising means for remote control from said central station of said first audio-visual means. 36. A health monitoring system as set forth in claim 28 further including additional apparatus for monitoring a patient's medical condition in a remote location and for transmission of medical condition information to a central station, comprising: at least one electrode for attachment to said patient's body; at least one miniature transmitter receiving signals from said at least one electrode and transmitting said signals; and a receiver comprising a receiver unit for receiving said transmitted signals from said miniature transmitter; a loop memory for storing said signals for a predetermined short-term time period; a long-term memory for storing said signals from said loop memory for a long-term time period. 