An integrated compliance electrohydraulic servovalve system connected to a load such as a simulated living being to provide more realistic movement thereto. The system includes a pressure transducer for sensing the pressure appearing at the output of the electrohydraulic servovalve and which is applied to an actuator connected to the load. The pressure as sensed is developed into a corresponding electrical signal which is used as a feed back signal to the drive motor of the electrohydraulic servovalve. The actuator position signal is also provided and is summed with the position command input signal to provide the command signal which is also summed with the pressure signal prior to application to the drive motor. The utilization of the pressure feed back signal provides compliance to the over all system resulting in a realistic movement of the simulated living being.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated subsystem for use in a position control system for providing the ability to dynamically alter the apparent stiffness of the position control system including an actuator by providing a feedback signal completely independent of actuator position feedback loop gain, the integrated subsystem comprising: a direct drive servovalve including a spool valve reciprocally disposed within a cylinder and movable responsive to electrical signals applied to a drive motor to control the flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure from a source thereof to a pair of cylinder ports for connecting said fluid flow to a load; means for providing a first electrical feedback signal proportional to the forces applied by and to said actuator by sensing the differential pressure appearing across said cylinder ports; means for providing a second electrical feedback signal representative of the position of said spool valve; means for summing said first and second electrical feedback signals to provide a resultant spool valve position feedback electrical signal; and means for applying said resultant spool valve position feedback electrical signal to said drive motor. 2. An integrated subsystem as defined in claim 1 which further includes a housing defining said cylinder and said cylinder ports and pressure transducer means disposed within said housing and coupled to said pair of cylinder ports. 3. An integrated subsystem as defined in claim 2 wherein said pressure transducer means includes first and second pressure transducers disposed in said housing, said first pressure transducer means being coupled to one of said cylinder ports and said second pressure transducer means being coupled to the other of said cylinder ports. 4. An integrated subsystem having an electrohydraulic servovalve including a spool valve reciprocally disposed within a cylinder and movable responsive to electrical signals applied to a drive motor to control the flow of hydraulic fluid under pressure from a source thereof to a pair of cylinder ports for connecting said fluid flow to a load, said servovalve having integrated compliance comprising: a housing defining said cylinder, a manifold defining first and second passageways coupled to said ports, means for mounting said housing upon said manifold, means for sensing the pressure appearing at said cylinder ports and providing a first electrical feedback signal proportional thereto including a separate pressure transducer disposed within said manifold and coupled to each of said first and second passage ways; means for sensing the position of said spool valve in said cylinder and providing a second electrical feedback signal proportional thereto; means for coupling said first feedback signal to said drive motor; and means for coupling said second feedback signal to said drive motor. 5. An integrated subsystem having an electrohydraulic servovalve as defined in claim 4 wherein said means for coupling said first feedback signal is an A-C coupling means including a lead-lag compensation means. 