A Bright Field Illumination system for inspecting a range of characteristically different kinds of defects, depressions, and ridges in a selected material surface. The system has an illumination source placed near a first focus of an elliptical reflector. In addition, a camera facing the inspected area is placed near the illumination source and the first focus. The second focus of the elliptical reflector is located at a distance approximately twice the elliptical reflector's distance above the inspected surface. The elliptical reflector directs the light from the source onto the inspected surface. Due to the shape of the elliptical reflector, light that is specularly reflected from the inspected surface is directed into the camera is which located at the position of the reflected second focus of the ellipse. This system creates a brightly lighted background field against which damage sites appear as high contrast dark objects which can be easily detected by a person or an automated inspection system. In addition, the Bright Field Illumination system and method can be used in combination with a vision inspection system providing for multiplexed illumination and data handling of multiple kinds of surface characteristics including abrupt and gradual surface variations and differences between measured characteristics of different kinds and prior instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A large area bright field illuminator for illuminating an inspected area, the illuminator comprising: an elliptical reflector having first and second focii; a lamp located in the vicinity of the first focus; and a camera located at a reflected image of the second focus and in the vicinity of the first focus, the camera having a lens; wherein the inspected area is situated approximately midway between the first and second foci, so that specularly reflected return light from the inspected area uniformly fills a viewing area of the lens. 2. The illuminator of claim 1, wherein the lamp is a ring flash lamp mounted around the camera. 3. The illuminator of claim 1, wherein a sectional diameter of the elliptical reflector is approximately twice a diameter of the inspected area. 4. The illuminator of claim 1, wherein a reflective surface of the elliptical reflector has a partially diffuse finish. 5. A bright field illumination system for inspecting an area, the system comprising: a camera having a lens facing the inspected area; a light source capable of emitting light; and a reflector for reflecting non-collimated emitted light towards the inspected area so that light incident on the inspected area is specularly reflected into the lens to produce uniform intensity bright field illumination across the inspected area. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the light source strobes the emitted light. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the light source is a ring lamp. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the ring lamp is situated around the camera. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein the reflector is an elliptical reflector focusing the light specularly reflected from the inspected area into the camera lens. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the elliptical reflector has a sectional diameter approximately twice a diameter of the inspected area. 11. The system of claim 5, wherein a reflective surface of the reflector has a partially diffuse finish. 12. The bright field illumination system of claim 5, wherein a size of the inspected area is not limited by a size of the camera lens. 13. An optical system for inspecting characteristically different kinds of variations in a surface, the system comprising: first and second optical subsystems for multiplexed illumination of a predetermined sequence of selected common portions of a material surface region under optical inspection sequenced in alternating succession; the first optical subsystem providing bright field illumination; the second optical subsystem providing fringe illumination taking into account phase information; an inspection subsystem for viewing common portions of material surface regions in connection with illumination by the first and second optical subsystems; and a data processing system for processing optical inspection data from both the first and the second optical subsystems; wherein the second optical subsystem comprises a module for performing ordered phase unwrapping, in which a raw phase map having many pixels is produced, and a quality metric is applied to each pixel in the raw phase map to rank pixels for an order in which the pixels will be unwrapped. 14. The optical system of claim 13, wherein the first optical subsystem comprises: a camera having a lens facing the surface; a light source capable of emitting light; a reflector reflecting the emitted light towards the surface so that the light incident on the surface is specularly reflected into the lens. 15. The optical system of claim 14, wherein the light source strobes the emitted light. 16. The optical system of claim 14, wherein the light source is a ring lamp. 17. The optical system of claim 16, wherein the ring lamp is situated around the camera. 18. The optical system of claim 14, wherein the reflector is an elliptical reflector focusing the light to a point approximately twice the distance from the camera to the surface. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the elliptical reflector has a sectional diameter approximately twice a diameter of the inspected area. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein a reflective surface of the reflector has a partially diffuse finish. 