An integrated processing tool is described comprising a full-wafer processing module and a combinatorial processing module. Chemicals for use in the combinatorial processing module are fed from a delivery system including a set of first manifolds. An output of each first manifold is coupled to at least one mixing vessel. An output of each mixing vessel feeds more than one of a set of second manifolds. An output of each set of second manifolds feeds one of multiple site-isolated reactors of the combinatorial processing module.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of mixed-mode processing of a substrate, comprising: generating a plurality of solutions from a plurality of chemicals, wherein a composition of the solutions is varied in a combinatorial fashion; and dispensing the chemicals and the solutions through a fluid delivery system to a conventional processing module and a combinatorial processing module, wherein the combinatorial processing module comprises a plurality of site isolated reactors defining a plurality of site isolated regions on the substrate, wherein the delivery system feeding the combinatorial processing module is shared with the delivery system feeding the conventional processing module, such that the solution delivered to a first site isolated region in the combinatorial processing module can be varied independently from the solution delivered to a second site isolated region in the combinatorial processing module. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition of the solutions is varied according to a recipe for one or more process sequences that each include the generating and the dispensing. 3. The method of claim 1, comprising synchronizing a plurality of process sequences that each includes the generating and the dispensing. 4. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling timing of the dispensing across the plurality of site isolated regions according to a global parameter for a process sequence that includes the generating and dispensing. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the global parameter includes one or more of time, temperature, and pH. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating includes statically generating at least one of the plurality of solutions. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating includes dynamically generating at least one of the plurality of solutions. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating includes generating in series at least one set of the plurality of solutions. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating includes generating in parallel at least one set of the plurality of solutions. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the dispensing of the plurality of solutions includes dispensing solutions in series to each region of a set of the plurality of site isolated regions. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the dispensing of the plurality of solutions includes dispensing solutions in parallel to regions of a set of the plurality of site isolated regions. 12. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of a chemical onto the entire surface of the substrate using at least one first set of process sequences. 13. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions using at least one second set of process sequences. 14. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of a chemical onto the entire surface of the substrate using at least one first set of processes and then controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions using at least one second set of processes. 15. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions using at least one second set of processes and then controlling the dispensing of a chemical onto the entire surface of the substrate using at least one first set of processes. 16. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions using one or more of serial, rapid serial, serial/parallel, or parallel flows. 17. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions to serially flow the solutions to each region of a first set of the plurality of site isolated regions. 18. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions to serially flow the solutions to each of the plurality of site isolated regions. 19. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions to flow in parallel the solutions to each region of a first set of the plurality of site isolated regions and a second set of the plurality of site isolated regions. 20. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions to flow in parallel the solutions to each of the plurality of site isolated regions. 21. The method of claim 1, comprising controlling the dispensing of the plurality of solutions to serially flow the solutions to each region of a first set of the plurality of site isolated regions and to flow in parallel the solutions to each region of a second set of the plurality of site isolated regions. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the solution delivered to the conventional processing module is varied independently from the solutions delivered to the site isolated reactors in the combinatorial processing module. 