A system for controlling locomotion of a biped robot discretely bringing its foot in contact with a floor in an environment such as that including stairs in which the robot's foot contact position is restricted. The robot's locomotion is controlled on the basis of predesigned gait parameters including its foot position/direction which determines foot landing position in a stair. A positional error is detected between the desired and actual foot landing positions in the stair. And, the gait parameters for the next stair is modified such that the foot landing position at the next stair is corrected in response to the detected error. With this arrangement, the error is not accumulated and does not exceed a premissible range which ensures the robot's stable walking. Thus, the robot's locomotion can be controlled in such a manner that the robot goes up and down the stairs consecutively.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged mobile robot having a plurality of legs and which can ascend or descend stairs, comprising: first means for determining a desired landing position at which a distal end of a robot leg is to be landed on a first step of the stairs relative to the edge of the first step; second means for detecting an actual landing position at which the distal end of the leg landed on the first step of the stairs third means for determining an error between the desired landing position and the actual landing position on the first step and for comparing the error with a predetermined value; and fourth means for determining a corrected desired landing position at which another robot leg is to be landed on a second step of the stairs, in response to the error if the error is found to exceed the predetermined value. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing position on the second step after a distal end of the another robot leg is lifted from a third step of the stairs adjacent to the first step and opposite from the second step. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein the legged mobile robot is a biped robot and the distal end is a foot of the robot. 4. A system according to claim 2, wherein the legged mobile robot is a biped robot and the distal end is a foot of the robot. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing position on the second step in position and direction in response to the error. 6. A system according to claim 2 wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing positons on the second step in position and direction in response to the error. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing position in response to a valve obtained by multiplying a gain by the error. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein the gain is no more than 1. 9. A system according to claim 8, wherein the gain is a value between 0.5 to 0.75 when the first step, second step, and third step are constant in length. 10. A system according to claim 2, wherein siad fourth means corrects the desired landing position in response to a value obtained by multiplying a gain by the error. 11. A system according to claim 10, wherein the gain is no more than 1. 12. A system according to claim 11, wherein the gain is a value between 0.5 to 0.75 when the first step, second step, and third step are constant in length. 13. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged mobile robot having a plurality of legs which can ascend or descend stairs, comprising: first means for determining a desired landing position at which a distal end of a robot leg lands on a first step of the stairs; second means for detecting an actual tanding position at which the distal end of the leg lands on the first step of the stairs; third means for determining a first error between the desired landing position and the actual landing position at the first step and adding it to a second error between a desired landing position and an actual landing position at a second step adjacent to the first step and comparing the combined errors with a predetermined value; and fourth means for correcting a desired landing position at which another robot leg lands on a third step adjacent to the first step and opposite the second step in response to the added error, if the added error is found to exceed the predetermined value. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing position on the third step after an distal end of the another leg is lifted from the second step of the stairs. 15. A system according to claim 14, wherein the legged mobile robot is a biped robot and the distal end is a foot of the robot. 16. A system according to claim 14, wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing positons on the third step in position and direction in response to the added error. 17. A system according to claim 13, wherein the legged mobile robot is a bipbed robot and the distal end is a foot of the robot. 18. A system according to claim 2, wherein said fourth means corrects the desired landing po9sition; said object is a stair; said first means detects a relative relationship at a n-th stair between the robot foot and the stair; and said second means determines a desired value on the third step in position and direction in response to the combined error. 19. A system according to claim 13, wherein said foruth means corrects the desired landing position in response to a value obtained by multiplying a gain to the added error. 20. A system according to claim 19, wherein the gain is no more than 1. 21. A system according to claim 20, wherein the gain is a value between 0.5 and 0.75 when the first step, second step, and third step are constant in length. 