A method and apparatus for aspirating and dispensing a sample fluid. The apparatus includes an air source having an output port coupled to a first port of a flow through pressure transducer. A second port of the flow through pressure transducer is coupled to a first port of a sample probe. The flow through pressure transducer provides transducer signals to a detector circuit. In response to the transducer signals provided thereto, the detector detects the occurrence or non-occurrence of a plurality of different events.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for aspirating and dispensing a sample fluid comprises: a constant air source having an output port; a pump valve having a first port coupled to the output port of said constant air source, a sample probe port and a vent port; a connecting member having a first port coupled to the sample probe port of said pump valve, a second port and a third port; a diluter having an output port coupled to the second port of said connecting member; a flow through pressure transducer having a first port coupled to the third port of said connecting member, a second port to provide a first pressure signal and a third port; a sample probe having a first port coupled to the third port of said flow through pressure transducer; a detector having a first port coupled to said second port of said transducer, said detector providing a second pressure signal; and a controller for said air source, pump valve, diluter and sample probe operating as a function of said second pressure signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a bleed valve having a first port coupled to the output port of said constant air source and a second port coupled to the first port of said pump valve. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising an accumulator having a first port coupled to the output port of said air source and an output port coupled to the first port of said bleed valve. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a connector having a first port coupled to the output port of said constant air source, a second port coupled to the first port of said accumulator and an output port coupled to a vent tube. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said flow through pressure transducer provides said first pressure signal on a pair of electrical output terminals comprising said second port and in response to pressure changes in a fluid path between said sample probe and said connecting member said flow through pressure transducer provides a differential output signal at the pair of electrical output terminals. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said controller comprises a microprocessor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said detector provides said second pressure signal to said controller to indicate a plurality of conditions reflected by pressure in said transducer. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said detector comprises: an amplifier circuit having a first terminal coupled to said second port of said flow through pressure transducer and a second terminal; a signal conditioning circuit having a first terminal coupled to the second terminal of said amplifier circuit and a second terminal coupled to at least one of: (a) a leak detector circuit; (b) a fluid level detector circuit; (c) an aspirate integrity detector circuit; (d) a clot detection circuit; (e) a tip detector circuit; and (f) a pump servo integrity circuit each of which has a nominal state signal set therein by said signal conditioning circuit under operation of said controller. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said signal conditioning circuit comprises: a first inverting amplifier having a negative input terminal coupled to the first terminal of said signal conditioning circuit, a positive input terminal and an output terminal; a second inverting amplifier having a negative input terminal coupled to the output terminal of said first inverting amplifier, a positive input terminal coupled to ground and an output terminal; a sample and hold circuit having an input terminal coupled to the output terminal of said second inverting amplifier, an output terminal coupled to the positive input terminal of said first inverting amplifier and a control terminal; and said controller coupled to the control terminal of said sample and hold circuit. 10. An apparatus for aspirating and dispensing a sample fluid comprising: a constant air source having an output port; a bleed valve having a first port coupled to the output port of said constant air source and a second port; a pump valve having a first port coupled to the second port of said bleed valve, a sample probe port and a vent port; a connecting member having a first port coupled to the sample probe port of said pump valve, a second port and a third port; a diluter having an output port coupled to the second port of said connecting member; a flow through pressure transducer having a first port coupled to the third port of said connecting member a second port to provide a pressure signal, and a third port; a sample probe having a first port coupled to the third port of said flow through pressure transducer; and a controller for said air source, bleed valve, pump valve, diluter and probe operating as a function of said pressure signal. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a detector circuit coupled to the second port of said flow through pressure transducer. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said detector circuit comprises: an amplifier circuit having a first terminal coupled to said flow through pressure transducer and a second terminal; a signal conditioning circuit having a first terminal coupled to the second terminal of said amplifier circuit and a second terminal coupled to at least one of: (a) a leak detector circuit; (b) a fluid level detector circuit; (c) an aspirate integrity detector circuit; (d) a clot detection circuit; and (e) a tip detector circuit; and (f) a pump servo integrity circuit each of which having a nominal state signal level set therein by said signal conditioning circuit under operation of said controller. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said signal conditioning circuit comprises: a first inverting amplifier having a negative input terminal coupled to the first terminal of said signal conditioning circuit, a positive input terminal and an output terminal; a second inverting amplifier having a negative input terminal coupled to the output terminal of said first inverting amplifier, a positive input terminal coupled to ground and an output terminal; a sample and hold circuit having an input terminal coupled to the output terminal of said second inverting amplifier, an output terminal coupled to the positive input terminal of said first inverting amplifier and a control terminal; and said controller coupled to the control terminal of said sample and hold circuit. 