An amusement machine having a robotic arm and a grabber mechanism controlled with a pair of joy sticks by a player to select a prize. The robotic arm and the grabber mechanism are accurately controlled by movement of the joy sticks, thereby requiring skill and/or coordination by the player to successfully obtain a prize.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a player-controlled game machine, a method of controlling a grabber for obtaining a prize, comprising the steps of: providing a robotic arm; providing a grabber with movable members, mounted to an end of the robotic arm; providing player controls for moving the robotic arm about plural axes of pivotal movement so that the grabber can be spatially positioned with respect to a prize; and providing electrical apparatus for incrementally opening and closing the movable members of the grabber so that the movable members of the grabber can be moved and remain in a plurality of positions between a fully open and a fully closed position to secure the prize. 2. The method of claim 1, further including providing rotational movements of the robotic arm about a vertical axis, and providing pivotal movement of reticulated parts of the robotic arm about at least two horizontal axes. 3. The method of claim 1, further including providing a pair of joy sticks, a first of the joy sticks movable in one direction for rotating a first part of the robotic arm about a vertical axis and movable in another direction for moving the robotic arm and thus the grabber in a vertical direction, a second of the joy sticks being movable in one direction to open and close the grabber, and movable in another direction for moving a second part of the robotic arm in a vertical direction. 4. The method of claim 1, further including opening and closing the grabber members by actuating a linear actuator to a plurality of intermediate linear positions and by way of hingable linkage opening and closing the members of the grabber. 5. The method of claim 4, further including actuating the linear actuator by pulsing the linear actuator with electrical pulses and incrementally moving an actuator stem, thereby moving the linkage of the grabber. 6. The method of claim 1, further including enclosing the robotic arm and prize with an enclosure, and providing an openable door in the enclosure, and controlling the grabber to open the door for grabbing a prize in the container with the grabber, and delivering the prize with the grabber through the opening. 7. The method of claim 1, further including enabling actuation of the robotic arm by detecting a deposit of money in the game machine. 8. The method of claim 7, further including controlling an amount of time the robotic arm is actuated corresponding to an amount of money deposited in the game machine. 9. The method of claim 8, further including maintaining an account of successful attempts in grabbing a prize and delivering the prize to a player, and comparing a number of successful attempts and failures according to a predefined schedule, and reducing the play time a specified amount if the number of successes exceeds the predefined schedule. 10. The method of claim 7, further including maintaining the robotic arm actuated until a prize is grabbed and delivered to a player. 11. The method of claim 1, further including providing different degrees of speed by which the robotic arm can be moved. 12. The method of claim 1, further including moving the robotic arm under control of a processor independently of a player to attract players to the game machine. 13. In a player-controlled game machine, a method of controlling a grabber for obtaining a prize, comprising the steps of: detecting a deposit of money in the game machine; in response to the detection of the deposit of money, allowing movement of a first joy stick in plural directions to move a robotic arm in corresponding plural directions; in response to the detection of the deposit of money, allowing movement of a second joy stick in one direction to move the robotic arm with one degree of freedom, and moving the second joy stick in another direction to control opening and closing of the grabber; and in response to actuation of a start button by a player of the game machine, responding to movements of the first and second joy sticks only for a predefined period of time. 14. The method of claim 13, further including moving one said joystick in one direction to incrementally move members of the grabber to a closed position, and moving said one joystick another direction to incrementally move the grabber members apart, whereby the grabber members can be incrementally moved and maintained between opened and closed positions. 15. The method of claim 14, further including moving a linear actuator in response to movements of said one joystick to incrementally move a linear actuator shaft, thereby moving the grabber members. 16. A player-controlled game machine, comprising: an articulated robotic arm; a plurality of motors, each for moving a portion of the articulated robotic arm so that an end of the robotic arm can be oriented in a plurality of spatial locations; a first control operated by a player of the game machine, said first control being operative to control the motors and thereby control the spatial location of the end of the robotic arm; a grabber attached to the end of the robotic arm, said grabber having members that are movable between an open and a closed position; an electrical actuator mechanically coupled to the grabber for moving the grabber members between the open and closed positions and a plurality of positions therebetween; a second control operated by the player of the game machine, said second control being operative to control movement of the electrical actuator and maintain the position of the grabber members between any of said plurality of said open and closed positions; and an enclosure for housing prizes and for containing the robotic arm so that a player can control the spatial location of the grabber and obtain a prize. 17. The player-controlled game machine of claim 16, wherein said electrical actuator comprises a linear actuator for linearly moving a shaft in increments in response to movement of said second control. 18. The player-controlled game machine of claim 17, wherein said grabber includes a plurality of finger members hinged so as to open and close toward each other, and said shaft of said linear actuator is connected to a common point of said plurality of finger members so that movement of the shaft is translated through hinged connections to movement of the finger members. 19. In a player-controlled game machine, a method of controlling a grabber for obtaining a prize, comprising the steps of: providing an articulated robotic arm; providing electrical motors for moving articulated parts of the robotic arm; providing a grabber with movable members attached to an end of the robotic arm; providing a first player control for moving the end of the robotic arm to plural spatial positions; providing a second player control for moving the movable members of the grabber; providing a program-controlled processor for driving the electrical motors to move the articulated parts of the robotic arm; and providing a software program including instructions for an attract mode for controlling the processor to move the articulated parts of the robotic arm without movement of the first or second player controls to attract players to the game machine. 20. The method of claim 19, further including moving the grabber movable members during running of the attract mode software by the processor. 