A semi-automated machine for singulating individual surgical needles from an bulk supply and attaching a suture to the surgical needle is described. Each of the surgical needles has a suture receiving opening formed therein for receiving a suture. The machine includes a needle singulation station, a precise positioning station, a suture feeding station, a swage station, a pull-test station and an off-load station. A universal gripper mounted on a rotary indexing device automatically receives each individual needle in a predetermined orientation and conveys the needle for sequential processing from station to station to form the needle-suture assembly. A swage station is provided for swaging the needle to close the suture receiving opening about the suture to secure said suture thereto and form therefrom a needle and suture assembly. The suture pull-test station tests each needle suture bond with a pre-determined pull for quality control. This pull is adjustable via a precision spring tension device. The pull test station includes two sets of jaws for gripping the suture, the first for the quality control pull test, and the second for a destructive test in which the strength of the bond is measured for adjusting the swage dies and for statistical quality control purposes. A final off-load station provides an apparatus for assembling a predetermined number of need-suture assemblies in a bundle for subsequent packaging.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a surgical needle-suture assembly, wherein the assembly has a suture depending from a suture receiving end of a surgical needle, said apparatus comprising: (a) a needle v-blade arm for supporting said suture receiving end of said surgical needle-suture assembly when a positive downward force of predetermined value is applied to said suture: (b) a universal gripper for releasably engaging said surgical needle-suture assembly for transport to and from said apparatus and for positioning said needle-suture assembly on said needle v-blade arm with said suture strand depending from said needle v-blade arm; (c) a non-destructive test assembly having a pair of non-destructive gripping jaws for positively gripping said suture strand at a first position below said v-blade arm, said non-destructive gripping assembly including a slide block means for applying said positive downward force of predetermined value to said gripped suture to thereby test the strength of said swage bond; and (d) a destructive test assembly having a pair of destructive gripping jaws for positively gripping said suture to pull said suture from said surgical needle. 2. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 1 wherein said slide block means for applying said positive downward force includes a mass of predetermined weight and an adjustable tension device. 3. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 2 wherein said non-destructive gripping jaws and said slide block means are slidably mounted along a fixed mounting frame, said fixed mounting means positioned substantially parallel with a vertical axis defined by said suture. 4. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 3 which further includes a relaxable drive for maintaining said gripping means and said slide block means at a first home position along said mounting frame prior to applying said positive downward force to said gripped suture. 5. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 4 wherein said relaxable drive includes a first air cylinder for applying pressure against said slide block means to maintain said non-destructive gripping means and said slide block means thereof at said first home position. 6. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle according to claim 5 wherein said pressure applied to said first side of said slide block means is relaxed to enable said slide block means to slide along said mounting means to a second position that is lower than said first position to apply a positive pre-determined downward force to said gripped suture. 7. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of an needle-suture assembly according to claim 2, wherein said slide block means further includes a first means for controlling the application of said downward force applied to said suture strand. 8. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 7, wherein said first means for controlling the application of said downward force is a spring tension device. 9. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 1 wherein said destructive test assembly further includes a destructive test air cylinder which applies a fixed downward stroke to said slide block means for destructive tests. 10. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of an needle-suture assembly according to claim 1, wherein said non-destructive gripping means includes a pair of retractable gripping jaws. 11. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of an needle-suture assembly according to claim 1, which further includes a transducer for measuring the value of said positive downward force applied by said slide block means to said gripped suture. 12. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of an needle-suture assembly according to claim 11, wherein said transducer is a load cell which measures a force generated by said needle v-blade arm when said positive downward force is applied to said gripped suture. 13. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 11 further including a computer control means connected to a detector which outputs a test fail signal if said suture is pulled from said needle after application of said positive downward force. 14. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle-suture assembly according to claim 13, said apparatus further including a needle stripper for removing said needle from said gripping means upon receipt of said test fail signal from said computer control means. 15. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond of said a needle-suture assembly according to claim 1, wherein said universal gripper is opened to release its engagement of said needle as said non-destructive gripping means applies said positive downward force of predetermined value to said suture to thereby test the strength of said swage bond. 16. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle-suture assembly according to claim 1 in which said destructive test assembly further includes an air cylinder for applying a second positive downward force against a second side of said slide block means that is sufficient to dislodge said suture from said needle. 17. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of an needle-suture assembly according to claim 16, which further includes a transducer for measuring the value of said second positive downward force applied by said destructive test assembly to said suture. 18. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of an needle-suture assembly according to claim 17, wherein said transducer includes a load cell for measuring the force applied by said needle v-blade needle support arm when said positive downward force is applied to said suture. 19. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 18 which further includes a computer control means connected to said transducer means, said transducer means outputting a data value of said destructive test to said computer means as said suture becomes dislodged from said needle after application of said second positive downward force. 20. The apparatus for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a needle-suture assembly according to claim 19 wherein said computer control means utilizes said measured value of said second positive downward force for process control in a swage apparatus. 21. A method for automatically testing the swage bond of a surgical needle-suture assembly wherein the assembly has a suture swaged to a suture receiving end of a surgical needle and depending therefrom, said method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the suture receiving end of said needle-suture assembly on a v-blade arm for supporting said needle with a universal gripper means in an oriented position above said v-blade arm; (b) positively gripping said depending suture strand at a first position below said v-blade arm with a non-destructive gripper means, said non-destructive gripper means having an off-set weight attached thereto; (c) setting a first positive downward force by means of an adjustable tension device; and (d) applying the first positive downward force upon said suture strand gripped by said non-destructive gripper means. 22. The method for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a surgical needle-suture assembly according to claim 21 wherein step (d) further comprises the step of releasing said needle from the grip of said universal gripper means prior to applying said first positive downward force. 23. The method for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a surgical needle-suture assembly according to claim 22 further including the step of measuring the value of said first positive downward force applied to said suture strand. 24. The method for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a surgical needle-suture assembly according to claim 23 further including the step of comparing said measured force value with a predetermined value and generating a test fail signal if the measured value is not within a predetermined range. 25. The method for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a surgical needle-suture assembly according to claim 21 further including the step of destructively testing the swage bond by destructively pulling said suture from said surgical needle and measuring the force applied at the moment of failure. 26. The method for automatically testing the swage bond strength of a surgical needle-suture assembly according to claim 25 further including the step of comparing said destructive test measured force value with a predetermined value and generating a repeat test signal if the measured value is not within a predetermined range. 