A fully automated protein and/or DNA gene fragment analyzing machine and method are disclosed in which, in a simple machine structure, a plurality of electrophoresis cells each containing such fragments, are robotically, under computer programming, inserted into an electrophoresis housing and subjected to voltage for producing electrophoretic migration in one dimension (horizontally), and then preferably after robotic 90.degree. rotating of the cells, are voltage migrated in an orthogonal direction to separate the fragments vertically, and then robotically presented to an optical image scanner for identifying the brightest fragments and classifying the same, with comparison with reference image fragment locations of normal or variant fragments, and for computer storing all relevant data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic system for analyzing polymerase chain reaction fluorescently labeled basepair gene fragment samples, as for gene mutation monitoring or screening, comprising, in combination, a machine containing therewithin an electrophoresis cell loading tray unit for holding pluralities of cells each containing a gene fragment sample, an electrophoresis housing unit for receiving the pluralities of cells, an optical scanning inspection unit, and a computer program-controlled robotic arm means for moving the cells between and amongst the said units; said robotic arm means, under the computer program control, sequentially transporting successive optically transparent gel cells, each containing a gene fragment sample, from the loading tray location to a corresponding position in the electrophoresis housing unit; means for thereupon applying voltage to electrodes extending transversely of the housing to effect electrophoretic migration of the gene fragments in each gel cell, to separate the gene fragments by size; upon completion of such migration and under program control, means for causing the robotic arm means sequentially to lift the successive cells from the housing unit, rotate them through 90.degree., and then lower them back in their said positions in said electrophoresis housing unit; means operable under program control for establishing a predetermined temperature gradient across the cells; means for reapplying voltage to the electrodes to effect electrophoresis migration of the gene fragments to separate the fragments as a function of base pair sequence; the robotic arm means thereupon, under program control, sequentially presenting each cell for image optical scanning to said scanning inspection unit; means controlled by the computer program and operable during the scanning for identifying and contrasting the brighter gene fragments and their locations from smears and other artifacts; means for thereupon classifying the identified fragments; means for comparing the same with reference locations and spatial offsets of normal and of mutated genes; the program control causing the robotic arm means thereupon to return the scanned cells to said loading or other location while storing all pertinent data related to the scanned gene fragments in the computer. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the robotic arm means comprises lifting arms horizontally movable back and forth along the electrophoresis housing unit above the same. 3. A system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the rotating of the cells is effected by a rotatable gripper at one end of the housing unit to which the lifting arms horizontally carry the cells. 4. A system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising means is provided for introducing buffer solution into wells in the housing unit before each voltage application, and for withdrawing the same following the completion of each electrophoretic migration. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4 further comprising the buffer solution introducing means comprises a solution storage well and pump at the base of the machine. 6. A system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising said predetermined temperature gradient is adjusted to be a non-linear gradient across the cells. 7. An automatic system for analyzing protein and/or DNA gene fragment samples comprising in combination, a machine containing therewithin an electrophoresis cell loading tray unit for holding pluralities of cells, each containing a protein or a gene fragment sample, an electrophoresis housing unit for receiving the pluralities of cells, an optical scanning inspection unit, and a computer-program-controlled robotic arm means for moving the cells between and amongst the said units; said robotic arm means, under the computer program control, sequentially transporting succesive optically tranisparent gel cells, each containing a protein or gene fragment sample, from the loading tray location to a corresponding position in the electrophoresis housing unit; means for thereupon applying voltage to electrodes extending transversely of the housing to effect electrophoretic migration of the protein or gene fragments; the robotic arm means thereupon, under program control, sequentially presenting each cell for image optical scanning to said scanning inspection unit; means controlled by the computer program and operable during the scanning for identifying the desired fragments and their locations; and means for thereupon classifying the identified fragments and in which the electrophoretic migration is effected in one dimension to separate the protein or gene fragments by size, and means is provided, operable following the electrophoretic migration along one dimension, for causing the robotic arm means sequentially to lift the successive cells from the housing unit, rotate them through 90.degree., and then return them back in their said positions in said electrophoresis housing unit. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7 further comprising means is provided, operable after the 90.degree. rotated cells are back in the housing unit, for reapplying voltage to the electrodes to effect electrophoresis migration of the protein or gene fragments to separate the same in an orthogonal dimension. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8 further comprising means provided for introducing buffer solution into wells in the housing unit before voltages are applied and for withdrawing the same following the completion of each electrophoretic migration. 10. A system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the buffer solution introducing means comprises a solution storage well and pump at the base of the machine. 11. A system as claimed in claim 8 further comprising means is provided for setting up one of a temperature or chemical gradient along the cells under computer program control prior to the reapplying of the voltage to the 90.degree. oriented cells. 12. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein a temperature gradient is established and means is provided for adjusting the gradient to be non-linear along the cells. 13. A system as claimed in claim 8 and provided for setting up one of a temperature or chemical gradient along the cells under computer program control during one of the electrophoresis migrations. 14. An automatic system for analyzing protein and/or DNA gene fragment samples comprising in combination, an electrophoresis housing unit for receiving electrophoresis cells, each containing a protein or a gene fragment sample and an optical scanning inspection unit; means for positioning optically transparent gel cells, each containing a protein or gene fragment sample in the electrophoresis housing unit; computer-controlled means for thereupon applying voltage to electrodes extending transversely of the housing to effect electrophoretic migration of the protein or gene fragments; means for thereupon, under program control, sequentially presenting each cell for image optical scanning to said scanning inspection unit; means controlled by the computer program and operable during the scanning for identifying the desired fragments and their locations; and means for thereupon classifying tile identified fragments, and in which the electrophoretic migration is effected in one dimension to separate the protein or gene fragments by size, and further comprising means operable following the electrophoretic migration along one dimension for lifting the successive cells from the housing unit, rotating their through 90.degree., and then returning them back in their said positions in said electrophoresis housing unit. 15. A system as claimed in claim 14 further comprising means is provided for distinguishing the identified fragments from smear and other artifacts. 16. A system as claimed in claim 15 further comprising means provided for comparing the identified fragments with reference locations of reference proteins and genes. 17. A system as claimed in claim 16 further comprising means is provided for returning the scanned cells to a storage location while storing all pertinent data related to the scanned fragments in the computer. 18. A system as claimed in claim 14 further comprising means operable after the 90.degree. rotated cells are back in the housing unit, for reapplying voltage to the electrodes to effect electrophoresis migration of the protein or gene fragments to separate the same along an orthogonal dimension. 19. A system as claimed in claim 18 further comprising means for setting up one of a temperature or chemical gradient along the cells under the computer program control prior to the reapplying of the voltage to the 90.degree. oriented cells. 20. A system as claimed in claim 19 wherein a temperature gradient is established and means is provided for adjusting the gradient to be non-linear along the cells. 21. A system as claimed in claim 18 further comprising means for setting up one of a temperature or chemical gradient along the cells under computer program control during one of the electrophoresis migrations. 