A method according to Claim 25, wherein essentially homogeneous material mixtures are achieved or maintained in these liquid containers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for moving liquid containers, comprising: a support unit, comprising at least one support element and a support surface for receiving liquid containers; a base unit, in relation to which said at least one support element of the support unit is mounted; connecting elements that are implemented as flexible or spring connecting elements connecting said at least one support element of the support unit to the base unit, the connecting elements being the sole mechanical connection between the at least one support element and the base unit, the at least one support element thereby being implemented to substantially horizontal and free oscillation in relation to the base unit; and at least one movement means for moving the at least one support element of the support unit in relation to the base unit, wherein at least one movement mass is movably fastened to said at least one support element of the support unit, said at least one movement mass thereby being implemented to be moveable in relation to said at least one support element, wherein said at least one movement means is fastened to and is inherent in the same support element to which support element the at least one movement mass is moveably fastened, said at least one movement means being implemented to interact with said at least one movement mass, and wherein movements of said at least one movement mass set the support element supporting said at least one movement mass and the liquid containers received by the support unit, into corresponding counter movements, and wherein the base unit is free of radial forces due to the free oscillation of the at least one support element, without the device discharging vibrations to the immediate surroundings the device, said at least one support element and said support surface thus being implemented to carry out a counter movement to every movement of said at least one movement mass. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the support unit comprises a single support element having at least one linearly movable or rotatable movement mass fastened to the support element. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the support unit comprises first and second support elements having at least two linearly movable or rotatable movement masses fastened to this second support element. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein the connection elements for mounting the first support element in relation to the base unit and the connection elements for mounting the second support element in relation to the first support element are hanging leaf springs. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the support unit comprises first and second support elements having at least one linear movable or rotatable movement mass fastened to each of these first and second support elements. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the connection elements for mounting the first support element in relation to the base unit and the connection elements for mounting the second support element in relation to the first support element are hanging leaf springs. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the movement means are electrically driven, and wherein the movement masses are linearly moveable and are implemented as a part of these movement means. 8. The device according to claim 7, wherein the linearly movable movement masses are moveable magnets. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the movement means are electrically driven, the movement masses being rotatable and magnetically or mechanically connected to a rotating part of one of these movement means. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein the connection elements for mounting at least one of a first and second support element in relation to the base unit are implemented as hanging or upright. 11. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a blocking apparatus, using which the support unit and liquid containers received thereon may be fixed in a predetermined position. 12. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a housing that has an opening on its top side, through which a liquid container may be laid on the support unit, the support unit comprising a fixing mechanism for fixing the liquid container. 13. The device according to claim 12, wherein the liquid container is a microplate. 14. The device according to claim 13, wherein the fixing mechanism for fixing the liquid container on the support unit is implemented so it may be loosened by a microplate handling robot. 15. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a housing with a floor, a cover, side walls, and a slider that is movably mounted in this housing, the housing having an opening on at least one side, through which the slider is extendable to receive a liquid container that is then pulled into the housing and laid on the support unit. 16. The device according to claim 15, wherein the support unit comprises a fixing device for retaining the liquid container. 17. The device according to claim 15, wherein the liquid container is a microplate. 18. The device according to claim 15, which is implemented as a stackable module, the floor and the cover being implemented as bottom and top stacking surfaces, the top and bottom stacking surfaces having relief structures implemented as complementary to one another. 19. The device according to claim 15, which is implemented as a shaking incubator, wherein the device further comprises a temperature-controlled hot plate and thermal insulation that is situated on the floor, the cover, and on all sides, and that also closes all openings. 20. The device according to claim 15, which is implemented as a shaking cooling chamber, wherein the device further comprises a temperature-controlled cooling plate and thermal insulation that is situated on the floor, the cover, and on all sides, and that also closes all openings. 21. The device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one eddy current brake having a permanent magnet. 22. The device according to claim 1, wherein the support unit further comprises one or more movement sensors to detect the current movement of the support element supporting at least one liquid container. 23. The device according to claim 22, wherein the movement sensors are Hall sensors. 24. The device according to claim 1, further comprising stop springs for the support elements, which are mounted substantially horizontally freely oscillating, wherein the stop springs are permanent magnets oriented homopolar to one another. 25. A method for moving liquid containers using the device according to claim 1, the method comprising the steps of: receiving liquid containers on the support surface of the support unit, the support unit being mounted to be substantially horizontally freely oscillating in relation to the base unit using the connection elements; and moving the support unit in relation to the base unit using the movement means, wherein the at least one support element of the support unit, on which the at least one movement mass is movably fastened, is moved using the at least one movement means that is fastened to the same support element and that interacts with the at least one movement mass independently of the base unit in such a way that movement of said at least one movement mass sets the support element supporting said at least one movement mass and the liquid containers received on the support unit into corresponding counter movements. 26. The method according to claim 25, wherein these counter movements correspond to one of a linear back-and-forth movement, a circular movement, an elliptical movement, and a movement which corresponds to the shape of a freeform. 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the freeform is a Lissajous figure. 