A two-axis Cartesian robot is described comprising a first horizontally disposed support having a first carriage selectively movably mounted thereon. A second support is operatively secured to the first carriage and extends perpendicularly from the longitudinal axis of the first support. A second carriage is vertically movably mounted on said second support. A belt pulley is rotated by a reversible drive motor. A drive belt is driven by the drive motor and operatively connected to the upper and lower ends of the second support by a pulley arrangement. Horizontal and vertical brakes are provided to control the horizontal movement of the first carriage and the vertical movement of the second carriage. A workpiece gripper or handling member is mounted on the second carriage for movement therewith.
Claims I claim: 1. A two-axis Cartesian robot, comprising: a first elongated and horizontally disposed first support means having first and second ends; said first support means having a first belt pulley rotatably mounted thereon adjacent its said first end, said first support means having a first idler pulley mounted thereon adjacent its said second end; a first carriage longitudinally movably mounted on said first support means; said first carriage having second and third idler pulleys rotatably mounted thereon; a first brake means associated with said first carriage for selectively preventing the horizontal movement of said first carriage with respect to said first support means; a second elongated and vertically disposed support means secured to and extending upwardly from said first carriage in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said first support means; said second support means having a fourth idler pulley rotatably mounted at its upper end; a second carriage vertically movably mounted on said second support means; a second brake means associated with said second carriage for selectively preventing the vertical movement of said second carriage with respect to said second support means; a reversible drive motor mounted on said first support means adjacent the said first end thereof and being operatively connected to said first belt pulley; an elongated flexible belt means for selectively horizontally moving said first carriage with respect to said first support means and for selectively vertically moving said second carriage with respect to said second support; said belt means extending downwardly from a fixed connection with said second carriage, thence beneath and around said third idler pulley, thence towards said second end of said first support means, thence around said second idler pulley, thence towards said first end of said first support means, thence beneath and around said belt pulley, thence beneath and around said second idler pulley, thence upwardly towards said fourth idler pulley, thence around and over said fourth idler pulley, thence downwardly to a fixed connection with said second carriage; a handling apparatus operatively secured to said second carriage; and control means for controlling the operation of said drive motor means, said first brake means and said second brake means. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said first brake means comprises a horizontal brake and said second brake means comprises a vertical brake. 3. The robot of claim 1 wherein a first elongated rod extends between said first and second ends of said first support and wherein said first brake means is mounted on said first carriage and is in selective braking engagement with said first rod. 4. The robot of claim 3 wherein a second elongated rod extends between the upper end and lower ends of said second support and wherein said second brake means is mounted on said second carriage and is in selective braking engagement with said second elongated rod. 