An automated tape library employing a motorized robotic picker wherein the electric motor driving the robotic picker is equipped with two brakes that act simultaneously. The first is a mechanical brake which uses a spring to push a brake pad against the rotating motor. During normal motor operation, an electric solenoid is used to overcome the spring and disengage the brake pad from the motor. When the robotic picker is to be mechanically stopped, the solenoid voltage is turned off and the solenoid releases the spring placing the brake pad in contact with the motor. The second brake is a dynamic electrical brake which makes use of the back emf of the motor to drive a current back into its own windings such that the motor decelerates.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed as new and what is desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. An automated storage library comprising: a plurality of storage slots, each arranged to accept and store a data storage element; one or more data drives arranged to read and write data from and to said data storage elements; and a robotic picker mechanism for transferring said data storage elements between said plurality of storage slots and said one or more data drives, said robotic picker mechanism including an electric motor and a braking control, said electric motor further including motor windings, a mechanical brake and a dynamic electrical brake, said braking control including resistors in series with the motor windings, said braking control activating said dynamic electrical brake and disabling said mechanical brake at or above a predetermined motor speed, said braking control including: a mechanical brake power supply; a brake solenoid; and a relay having a plurality of contacts, each of said contacts connected between said brake solenoid and at least one of said relay and said brake power supply. 2. The automated storage library of claim 1 wherein said braking control directs motor back-emf to disable said mechanical brake at or above a predetermined motor speed. 3. The automated storage library of claim 1 wherein said mechanical brake is operated by said brake solenoid such that said brake solenoid selectively places a fixed brake pad in contact with said motor. 4. An automated storage library comprising: a plurality of storage slots, each arranged to accept and store a data storage element; one or more data drives arranged to read and write data from and to said data storage elements; and a robotic picker mechanism for transferring said data storage elements between said plurality of storage slots and said one or more data drives, said robotic picker mechanism including an electric motor and a braking control, said electric motor further including a mechanical brake and a dynamic electrical brake, said braking control activating said dynamic electrical brake and disabling said mechanical brake at or above a predetermined motor speed, said braking control including: a mechanical brake power supply having first and second terminals; a first relay having first, second, third and fourth movable contacts and a coil, said coil having first and second terminals; a brake solenoid having first and second terminals; said first movable contact of said first relay being connected between said first terminal of said coil of said first relay and said first terminal of said brake solenoid; said second movable contact of said first relay being connected between said second terminal of said coil of said first relay and said second terminal of said brake solenoid; said third movable contact of said first relay being connected between said second terminal of said brake solenoid and said first terminal of said brake power supply; said fourth movable contact of said first relay being connected between said first terminal of said brake solenoid and said second terminal of said brake power supply; and a first resistor having a first and second terminal and being connected to a conversion means and being further connected to said electric motor, and said conversion means being connected to said first relay. 5. The automated storage library of claim 4 wherein said conversion means converts a voltage source from alternating current to direct current. 6. The automated storage library of claim 5 wherein said conversion means is a rectifier bridge. 7. The automated storage library of claim 4 further including: a second resistor having a first terminal connected to said first terminal of said first resistor and a second terminal connected to said electric motor; a third resistor having a first terminal connected to said first terminal of said second resistor and a second terminal connected to said electric motor. 8. The automated storage library of claim 7 further including a second relay having first and second movable contacts and a coil, said first movable contact connected between said first terminal of said first resistor and said first terminal of said second resistor and said second movable contact connected between said first terminal of said second resistor and said first terminal of said third resistor. 9. The automated storage library of claim 4 wherein said electric motor is an AC motor. 10. The automated storage library of claim 4 wherein said electric motor is a DC motor. 11. The automated storage library of claim 4 wherein said mechanical brake power supply is disconnected from the circuit when an emergency power off button is depressed. 