A pass thru port, for use in an automated cartridge library, is capable of transferring a cartridge from one module of the automated cartridge library to another module of the automated cartridge library without the use of motors or other powered devices. A transfer cell accepts and holds a cartridge to be transferred from one module to another module. A spring loaded toggle mechanism operates to hold the transfer cell at one of the modules until operation of the pass thru port is initiated. The robot arm in either one of the modules is used to depress a lever on the pass thru port. Depression of the lever loads a move spring mechanism. When the lever is released by the robot arm, the force of the move spring mechanism overcomes the force of the toggle mechanism. This causes the transfer cell, holding a cartridge, to be rotated from one module to the other module. There are no separate motors or electrical devices associated with the pass thru port.
Claims We claim: 1. A pass thru port that is operable in an automated cartridge library system that includes a robot arm that transports cartridges among various locations in said automated cartridge library system, said pass thru port operable for transferring a cartridge from a first storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a first orientation and a first location to a second storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a second orientation and a second location, said pass thru port comprising: a transfer cell operable to hold said cartridge, a support means connected to said transfer cell and operable to simultaneously rotate and translate said transfer cell from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location, a toggle means connected to said support means and operable to bias said support means such that said transfer cell is positioned at said first orientation and said first location; and a move means, connected to said toggle means and responsive to said robot contacting said move means, for reversing the bias of said toggle means whereby said transfer cell is moved from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a rotatable shaft wherein said support means and said toggle means are fixedly attached to said shaft. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said support means comprises: an arm having a distal end connected to said transfer cell and a proximal end connected to said shaft. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said toggle means comprises: a first torque generating means connected to said shaft, said first torque generating means being operable to apply a torque in a first direction to said shaft whereby said transfer cell is held at said first orientation and said first location. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said first torque generating means comprises: a plate means fixedly attached to said shaft, a spring means having a first end connected to a fixed base and a second end pivotally connected to said plate means whereby said spring means exerts said first torque on said shaft. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said move means comprises: lever means engaging said toggle means and operable to receive a mechanical force from said robot and transfer said force to said toggle means whereby said transfer cell is moved from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location. 7. The apparatus of claim in 5, wherein said move means comprises: a second torque generating means operable for applying a second torque to said shaft, said second torque being opposite in direction to said first torque, said second torque generating means is responsive to said robot for engaging said second torque in a magnitude greater than said first torque thereby causing said transfer cell to move from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said second torque generating means comprises: a move spring, linkage means connected to said move spring said linkage means operable to convert a tension in said move spring to said second torque on said shaft. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said linkage means comprises: a linkage plate having a catch, said catch positioned to engage a pin on said toggle plate whereby a tension in said move spring is translated by said catch engaging said toggle plate as said second torque applied to said toggle plate. 10. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said support means further comprises: rotation means responsive to turning of said shaft for rotating said transfer cell in a first direction while said shaft and said arm rotate in a second direction. 11. In a robot actuated pass thru port for transferring a cartridge from a first storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a first orientation and a first location to a second storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a second orientation and a second location, a method comprising the steps of: locating said cartridge in a transfer cell said transfer cell operable to simultaneously rotate and translate from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location, biasing said transfer cell with a toggle means such that said transfer cell is positioned at said first orientation and said first location; and reversing the bias of said toggle means whereby said transfer cell is moved from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said step of biasing said transfer cell further comprises the steps of: generating a first torque with said toggle means; and applying said first torque to a shaft to which said transfer cell is connected whereby said transfer cell is held at said first orientation and said first location. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of reversing the bias of said toggle means further comprises: transferring a force from said robot to a move means whereby said transfer cell is moved from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of transferring a force from said robot to reverse the bias of said toggle means further comprises: generating a second torque with said robot; and applying said second torque to said shaft to which said transfer cell is connected whereby said second torque is greater in magnitude than said first torque thereby causing said transfer cell to move from said first orientation and said first location to said second orientation and said second location. 