A single weld head, torch, is time-shared to implement any specified distributed heat input by scanning along a weld centerline and a region surrounding the centerline while adjusting the torch intensity accordingly on its path. The scan welding torch reciprocates rapidly on dynamically scheduled trajectories while power to the torch is modulated in real-time to provide a regulated heat input distribution in the weld region and on the weld centerline. The method generates a smooth and uniform temperature field, and deposits the full length of the weld bead simultaneously at a controlled solidification rate. As a result, grain interlacing on the bead interface in conjunction with a regulated material microstructure yield improved tensile joint strength.
Claims I claim: 1. A welding method comprising: applying energy to a workpiece from a weld head; and generating a weld pool simultaneously along at least a segment of a weld centerline by scanning the weld head repeatedly along a longitudinal length of the segment and maintaining the weld pool between passes of the weld head. 2. A welding method as described in claim 1, further comprising: determining an actual temperature field distribution in the weld region; and modifying the scanning of the weld head in response to the actual temperature field distribution. 3. A welding method as described in claim 1, further comprising: determining an ideal two-dimensional temperature field distribution as a function of welding time that will yield desired weld characteristics; determining an actual two-dimensional temperature field distribution in the weld region including a weld pool and zones adjacent to the weld pool; comparing the ideal temperature field distribution and the actual temperature field distribution; and modifying the scanning of the weld head to minimize the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution. 4. A welding method as described in claim 3, wherein determining the actual temperature field distribution in the weld region comprises detecting electromagnetic radiation emitted by the weld region. 5. A welding method as described in claim 3, wherein the actual temperature field distribution is determined by computer simulation. 6. A welding method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the weld head is one of an arc welding head, laser beam, or electron beam. 7. A welding method as described in claim 1, further comprising scanning the weld held transversely to the weld centerline in the length of the segment to control a two-dimensional heat input distribution in zones adjacent to the weld pool. 8. A welding method as described in claim 1, further comprising scanning the weld head to generate a substantially uniform temperature distribution along the segment. 9. A welding method comprising: mapping an emissivity of a surface of a workpiece; determining an ideal temperature field distribution as a function of welding time that will yield desired weld characteristics; applying energy to a workpiece from a weld head; detecting electromagnetic radiation emitted by a weld region; determining a detected temperature field distribution from the detected electromagnetic radiation; scanning the weld head to minimize the differences between the detected temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution with corrections made in response to the mapping to generate a weld pool simultaneously along a segment of the weld centerline. 10. A welding method comprising: determining an ideal temperature field distribution which will yield a weld having desired characteristics along a weld centerline; determining an actual temperature field distribution in the weld region including a weld pool and zones surrounding the weld pool; comparing the ideal temperature field distribution and the actual temperature field distribution; and scanning the weld head to minimize differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution. 11. A welding method as described in claim 10, wherein the ideal temperature field distribution is selected so as to generate a weld pool simultaneously along an entire length of the segment of the weld centerline. 12. A welding method as described in claim 10, further comprising modifying a pattern of the scanning of the weld head in response to the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution. 13. A welding method as described in claim 10, further comprising modulating power to the weld head in response to the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution during the scanning. 14. A welding method as described in claim 10, further comprising modulating power to the weld head in response to the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution while raster scanning the weld head across the weld region. 15. A welding method as described in claim 10, further comprising scanning the weld held transversely to the weld centerline in the length of the segment to control the two-dimensional heat input distribution. 16. A welding method as described in claim 10, further comprising scanning the weld head to generate a substantially uniform temperature distribution along the weld centerline. 17. A welding method comprising: applying energy to a workpiece from a weld head; and generating a weld pool simultaneously along a weld centerline by scanning the weld head over a weld region surrounding the weld centerline and maintaining the weld pool between passes of the weld head. 18. A welding method as described in claim 17, further comprising: determining actual temperature field distribution in the weld region; and modifying a pattern of the scanning of the weld head in response to the actual temperature field distribution. 19. A welding method as described in claim 17, further comprising: determining an ideal temperature field distribution as a function of welding time that will yield desired weld characteristics; determining an actual temperature field distribution in the weld region; comparing the ideal temperature field distribution and the actual temperature field distribution; and scanning the weld head to minimize the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution. 20. A welding method as described in claim 19, wherein the ideal temperature field distribution is selected so as to generate a weld pool simultaneously along an entire length of the segment of the weld centerline. 21. A welding method as described in claim 19, further comprising modifying a pattern of the scanning of the weld head in response to the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution. 22. A welding method as described in claim 19, further comprising modulating power to the weld head in response to the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution during the scanning. 23. A welding method as described in claim 19, further comprising modulating power to the weld head in response to the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution while raster scanning the weld head across the weld region. 24. A welding method as described in claim 19, wherein determining the actual temperature field distribution in the weld region comprises detecting electromagnetic radiation emitted from the weld region. 25. A welding method as described in claim 19, wherein the actual temperature field distribution is determined by computer simulation to model the welding process. 26. A welding method as described in claim 25, wherein the model is updated in response to the detected temperature field. 27. A welding method as described in claim 17, further comprising scanning the weld held transversely to the weld centerline in the length of the segment to control a two-dimensional heat input distribution. 28. A welding method as described in claim 17, further comprising scanning the weld head to generate a substantially uniform temperature distribution along the weld centerline. 29. A welding apparatus comprising: a weld head for heating a workpiece; a scanning device for translating the weld head relative to the workpiece; and a controller for controlling the scanning device to heat the workpiece in a weld region surrounding at least a segment of a weld centerline to form a weld pool simultaneously along an entire length of the segment of the weld centerline and maintain the weld pool between passes of the weld head. 30. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 29, further comprising an infrared detector for determining a temperature field distribution in the weld region. 31. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 30, wherein controller modifies a pattern of the scanning of the weld head in response to the temperature field distribution. 32. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 30, wherein controller modulates the heat output of the weld head in response to the temperature field distribution. 33. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 29, wherein controller stores an ideal temperature field distribution as a function of welding time that will yield desired weld characteristics. 34. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 33, further comprising an infrared detector for determining an actual temperature field distribution in the weld region, wherein controller determines an actual temperature field distribution in the weld region, compares the ideal temperature field distribution and the actual temperature field distribution and scans the weld head to minimize the differences between the actual temperature field distribution and the ideal temperature field distribution. 35. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 34, wherein the controller models the sensitivity of the workpiece to heat input by the weld head and modulates heat output of the weld head in response to the comparison between the ideal temperature field distribution and the actual temperature field distribution and the sensitivity. 36. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 29, wherein the weld head is an electrode of an arc welding device. 37. A welding apparatus as claimed in claim 29, wherein the weld head is one of an electron or laser beam. 38. A welding apparatus comprising: a scanning device for translating a weld head relative to a material to be welded; and a controller for controlling the scanning device to heat the material in a weld region surrounding a weld centerline to form a weld pool simultaneously along the weld centerline and maintain the weld pool between passes of the weld head. 39. A welding apparatus as described in claim 38, wherein the controller is constructed to direct the scanning device to translate the weld head longitudinally and transversely to the weld centerline. 40. A welding apparatus as described in claim 38, wherein the controller is constructed to generate a substantially uniform temperature distribution along the weld centerline. 