Methods and apparatus to assess current aspects of Quality Control useful for release of radioactive compounds for imaging, such as PET tracers as injectables, in an automated manner, without user interference, and in compliance with regulatory guidelines. The present method and system relates to an integrated automated quality control analysis of a substance utilizing a single sample injection for a plurality of inline quality control tests. A quantitative analysis of the sample via the plurality of quality control tests is conducted. A measurement value of each of the plurality of quality control parameters is determined and a comparison of each measurement value of the plurality of quality control parameters with a predetermined corresponding criterion value is made. A cumulative quality rating for the sample is determined and the validated sample is released based on the quality rating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for an integrated automated quality control analysis of a radioactive tracer compound comprising the following steps: utilizing a single sample injection, the single sample injection being a sample having a particular volume, for a plurality of inline quality control tests being conducted in a single pass; determining a sterility result via a filter membrane integrity test, the filter membrane integrity test being performed without use of the single sample injection and the sterility result being used to confirm filter membrane integrity; conducting a quantitative analysis of the single sample injection via the plurality of quality control tests; determining a measurement value of each of the plurality of quality control parameters; comparing each measurement value of the plurality of quality control parameters with a predetermined corresponding criterion value; determining a cumulative quality rating for the single sample injection based on the plurality of quality control tests and membrane integrity test; generating a quantitative report, that reflects a quantified result of the quality of the single sample injection against predetermined standards for the single sample injection, the report being based on the cumulative quality rating for the single sample injection; and releasing the quantitative report validating the single sample injection based on the quality rating, wherein the single sample injection is used for every control test required for the sample. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests comprises determination of particle and color content. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein a single optical cell is used for the determination of color. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein a single optical cell is used for the determination of a color parameter and appearance parameter. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of radionuclidic purity. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of radioactive concentration. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the determination of radioactive concentration includes variable detection sensitivity. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of pH of the sample solution. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of Kryptofix concentration. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the determination of Kryptofix concentration includes a microfluidic test. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of radiochemical identity. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of radiochemical purity. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of specific activity of the sample. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of bacterial endotoxin concentration. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of quality control tests further comprises determination of residual solvent content. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising a GC test for determination of residual solvent content and Kryptofix. 17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining K222 concentration by GC. 18. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining specific activity from a single HPLC injection. 19. The method according to claim 1, further comprising performing a microfluidic K222 test. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein two or more tests are inline. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein two or more tests performed in parallel. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein the compound is a radiopharmaceutical. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein the compound is a PET tracer. 24. An apparatus for automated quality control analysis of a radioactive tracer comprising the following elements: an injection valve configured to deliver a single sample injection from a vial via a syringe in to a sample line; at least one sample line containing the single sample injection for a plurality of quality control tests that are performed in a single pass, the tests including the following testing components; a distribution valve for selecting solutions; a filter membrane integrity test setup for performing an integrity test of the membrane; an optical cell for performing color and/or appearance test connected to a light source and/or a laser and a spectrometer via fiber optics; a HPLC column for determining specific activity from a single HPLC injection; a UV cell connected to a UV light source and a UV detector via fiber optics; a radioactivity detection module for determining purity of the sample; a GC column, used for determining K222 concentration and solvent concentration from a single GC injection using the single sample injection; a pH test cell for determining a pH of the sample solution, one or more ports to operatively couple the elements to a computer system for quantitative processing of the experimental data and generation of a quantitative report that provides a quantitative result reflecting the quality of the single sample injection against predetermined standards. 25. The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein two or more elements are inline. 26. The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein two or more tests are run in parallel. 27. The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein two or more tests are run sequentially. 28. The apparatus of claim 24, capable of performing an automated self-cleaning and recalibration cycle. 29. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the apparatus is portable. 30. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising radiation shielding disposed proximal to one or more of the elements. 31. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the computer system is located remotely from the apparatus. 32. A method for an integrated automated quality control analysis of a radioactive tracer compound comprising: utilizing a single sample injection, the single sample injection being a sample having a particular volume, for a plurality of inline quality control tests being conducted in a single pass, determining K222 concentration and solvent concentration from a single GC injection using the single sample injection; conducting a quantitative analysis of the single sample injection via the plurality of quality control tests; determining a measurement value of each of the plurality of quality control parameters; comparing each measurement value of the plurality of quality control parameters with a predetermined corresponding criterion value; determining a cumulative quality rating for the single sample injection based on the plurality of quality control tests; generating a quantitative report, that reflects a quantified result of the quality of the single sample injection against predetermined standards for the single sample injection, the report being based the cumulative quality rating for the single sample injection; and releasing the report validating the single sample injection based on the quality rating, wherein the single sample injection is used for every control test required for the sample. 33. An apparatus for automated quality control analysis of a radioactive tracer comprising: an injection valve configured to deliver a single sample injection from a vial via a syringe in to a sample line; and at least one sample line containing the single sample injection for a plurality of quality control tests that are performed in a single pass, wherein the plurality of control tests quantitatively test multiple parameters to determine whether the single sample injection is acceptable based on predetermined criteria. 34. An apparatus for automated quality control analysis of a radioactive tracer comprising the following elements: an injection valve configured to deliver a single sample injection from a vial via a syringe in to a sample line; at least one sample line containing the single sample injection for a plurality of quality control tests that are performed in a single pass; and a filter membrane integrity test setup, wherein a measurement value for sterility based on the filter membrane integrity is determined after the single sample injection is delivered. 