This invention reveals improvements in a flexible robotic limb which can function as a robotic snake. These improvements are particularly pertinent to miniaturization applications such as catheters or positioners for microsurgery, micro-assembly, micro-manipulation, or micro-exploration. This invention developes detailed new component designs, and it combines the basic structure with systems for sensing, control, and signal transmission. These systems include pressure sensors, length sensors, protective skins, ultrasonic imagers, cutting tools, and multiplexing schemes.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A robotic snake comprising: a plurality of articulation units, serially connected, including a top articulation unit and a bottom articulation unit wherein: each of said articulation units comprises a rear section, a fore section, and a lengthwise interconnect section, wherein the fore section of one of said articulation units comprises the rear section of the succeeding articulation unit, and wherein said rear section and said fore section are rotatable relative to each other, wherein said rear section and said fore section are equivalent structures except for positional considerations within said robotic snake and the general term for rear section or base section is defined to be base section, said rear section comprising three base joint vertices interconnected by three base interconnect elements, said fore section comprising three base joint vertices interconnected by three base interconnect elements, said lengthwise interconnect section comprising six lengthwise actuators, also referred to as actuators, wherein each of said base joint vertices of said rear section is coupled to two of said lengthwise actuators and each of said two lengthwise actuators is coupled to a different one of said base joint vertices of said fore section, a sensor system for interrogation of the surrounding environment and for determination of the location of said robotic snake with respect to said surrounding environment, a control system, and a signal transmission system, wherein said control system incorporates information from said sensor system to cause electrical signals to be sent via said signal transmission system to activate said lengthwise actuators to achieve a pre-determined motion of said robotic snake. 2. The robotic snake of claim 1 wherein each of said base joint vertices comprises a joint plate and four universal joints, except that each of said base joint vertices of said rear section of said bottom articulation unit comprises a joint plate and two universal joints, and except that each of said base joint vertices of said fore section of said top articulation unit comprises a joint plate and two universal joints, wherein each of said lengthwise actuators is coupled to a corresponding one of said universal joints. 3. The robotic snake of claim 2, wherein each of said base interconnect elements is a base actuator and each of said base joint vertices further comprises two base pivots, each of which is coupled to one of said base actuators, wherein said base actuator is often equivalent in structure to said length actuator in which case the term actuator is used to refer to either said lengthwise actuator or said base actuator. 4. The robotic snake of claim 1 wherein each of said base interconnect elements or each of said lengthwise actuators is arcuate in length. 5. The robotic snake of claim 1 wherein one of the cross-sectional dimensions, namely the actuator width, of said actuator is greater than the other cross-sectional dimension, namely the actuator depth. 6. The robotic snake of claims 1 wherein each of said actuators has a cross-section which is arcuate. 7. The robotic snake of claim 2, wherein each of said universal joints comprises a monolithic pivot further comprising: an upper end, a lower end, and a mid-portion also referred to as a universal neck, wherein said universal neck is sufficiently smaller in cross-sectional area than said upper end or said lower end to permit free and universal rotation of said upper end with respect to said lower end. 8. The robotic snake of claim 2, wherein each of said universal joints comprises a bellows joint. 9. The robotic snake of claim 2, wherein each of said universal joints comprises: an upper end, a lower end, and a mid-portion comprising a flexible tube connecting said upper and lower ends. 10. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein said sensor system comprises one or more pressure sensors. 11. The robotic snake of claim 1 wherein said sensor system comprises one or more length sensors. 12. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein at least one end of said robotic snake, which could be said top articulation unit or said bottom articulation unit, further comprises a tool. 13. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein at least one end of said robotic snake, which could be said top articulation unit or said bottom articulation unit, has a different size than its neighboring articulation units. 14. The robotic snake of claim 1 wherein said actuator is covered with an elastic skin. 15. The robotic snake of claim 3, wherein each of said base pivots is a monolithic hinge. 16. The robotic snake of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises an outer telescopic element and an inner telescopic element. 17. The robotic snake of claim 16, wherein said outer telescopic element further comprises a external cladding. 18. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein said control system comprises a second robotic snake called a master robotic snake which has the same structure as said robotic snake, wherein said master robotic snake experiences external forces causing the initiation of motion of said master actuators, wherein said control system causes said robotic snake to initiate motion of all component ones of said actuators which motion mimics the motion of said master actuators, wherein said control system causes said master robotic snake to limit the motion of said actuators to motion equivalent to motion of said master actuators, wherein a person who manipulates said master robotic snake can sense forces equivalent to forces which are acting on said robotic snake by said surrounding environment. 19. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein said sensor system comprises an imaging system. 20. The robotic snake of claim 12, wherein said tool comprises an ultrasonic imaging system. 21. The robotic snake of claim 19, wherein said imaging system comprises an ultrasonic imaging system which further comprises an array of ultrasonic elements which transmit and receive ultrasonic waves. 22. The robotic snake of claim 21, wherein said imaging system is located on the perimeter of one or more of said base sections. 23. The robotic snake of claim 12, wherein said tool comprises a cutting hoop. 24. The robotic snake of claim 23, wherein said cutting hoop comprises a variable cutting hoop further comprising: three fixed hoop holders fixedly attached to said base corners, three variable cutting hoop segments each of which is fixedly attached at its mid-point to one of said fixed hoop holders, three first hoop guides each of which is fixedly attached to said outer telescopic element, three second hoop guides each of which is fixedly attached to one of said cutting hoop segments, wherein each of two different said cutting hoop segments is guided slidingly through each said first hoop guide and wherein each of said cutting hoop segments is guided slidingly through said second hoop guide. 25. The robotic snake of claim 23, wherein said cutting hoop comprises a heater. 26. The robotic snake of claim 25, wherein said heater is a resistive heater. 27. The robotic snake of claim 23, wherein said cutting hoop comprises a saw-tooth edge. 28. The robotic snake of claim 12, wherein said tool comprises a penetration tool. 29. The robotic snake of claim 29, wherein said penetration tool comprises: a penetration cone fixedly attached to said end, wherein said penetration cone may be perforated, an array of cone knife edges fixedly attached to said penetration cone, and an array of internal imagers fixedly attached to said penetration cone. 30. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein said signal transmission system further comprises a multiplexing system. 31. The robotic snake of claim 1, wherein said multiplexing system comprises: an actuation system located at the site of each of said lengthwise actuators for the purpose of sending the particular sequence of electrical signals needed to cause a prescribed length change in said lengthwise actuator, a digital-to-analog (D/A) switching system located at the site of said lengthwise actuators for the purpose of converting analog signals form said sensor system to digital signals to be sent to said control system, a wiring system connecting said control system with said actuation system and said D/A switching system. 32. The robotic snake of claim 3, wherein said multiplexing system comprises: an actuation system located at the site of each of said base actuators for the purpose of sending the particular sequence of electrical signals needed to cause a prescribed length change in said base actuator, a digital-to-analog (D/A) switching system located at the site of said base actuators for the purpose of converting analog signals form said sensor system to digital signals to be sent to said control system, a wiring system connecting said control system with said actuation system and said D/A switching system. 33. The robotic snake of claim 12, wherein said tool comprises a plurality of robotic fingers, each of which further comprises one or more articulation units, serially connected, including a top articulation unit and a bottom articulation unit wherein: each of said articulation units comprises a rear section, a fore section, and a lengthwise interconnect section, wherein the fore section of one of said articulation units comprises the rear section of the succeeding articulation unit, and wherein said rear section and said fore section are rotatable relative to each other, wherein said rear section and said fore section are equivalent structures except for positional considerations within said robotic snake and the general term for rear section or base section is defined to be base section, said rear section comprising three base joint vertices interconnected by three base interconnect elements, said fore section comprising three base joint vertices interconnected by three base interconnect elements, said lengthwise interconnect section comprising six lengthwise actuators, also referred to as actuators, wherein each of said base joint vertices of said rear section is coupled to two of said lengthwise actuators and each of said two lengthwise actuators is coupled to a different one of said base joint vertices of said fore section, a sensor system for interrogation of the surrounding environment and for determination of the location of said robotic snake with respect to said surrounding environment, a control system, and a signal transmission system, wherein said control system incorporates information from said sensor system to cause electrical signals to be sent via said signal transmission system to activate said lengthwise actuators to achieve a pre-determined motion of said robotic finger. 