A wafer transfer apparatus capable of simultaneously transferring multiple semiconductor wafers to and from a furnace or similar columnar wafer station. The apparatus has a cantilevered extension which extends from a main part. The extension is preferably mounted for pivotal movement. The extension has a distal engagement head mounted thereon. The distal engagement head is moved between a lateral position and an upstanding engaging position. The engagement head has a plurality of wafer support features which support the far edges of a group of wafers. The near edges of the wafers are held by proximal wafer contact heads.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for transferring at least one wafer or other panel from a wafer transfer apparatus to a wafer station having at least one wafer support, comprising: placing the at least one wafer onto the wafer transfer apparatus; laterally moving the at least one wafer on the wafer transfer apparatus into the wafer station; locating the at least one wafer adjacent to wafer support features forming a pan of said wafer station; lowering the at least one wafer onto the wafer support features of the wafer station; moving a distal wafer engagement head from an upright engaging position into a lateral retracted position; laterally removing the wafer engagement head from the wafer station. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said moving includes pivoting. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said moving includes pivoting and axial movement. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said moving includes axial movement. 5. A method for simultaneously transferring a group of wafers or other panels from a wafer transfer apparatus to a wafer station having a plurality of wafer supports which define a columnar, discretely spaced wafer station array, comprising: placing the group of wafers onto the wafer transfer apparatus in a columnar, discretely spaced wafer transfer array; laterally moving the group of wafers on the wafer transfer apparatus into the wafer station; locating the individual wafers adjacent to wafer support features forming a part of said wafer station; simultaneously lowering the group of wafers onto the wafer support features of the wafer station; moving a distal wafer engagement head from an upright engaging position into a lateral retracted position; laterally removing the wafer engagement head from the wafer station. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein said moving includes pivoting. 7. A method according to claim 5 wherein said moving includes pivoting and axial movement. 8. A method according to claim 5 wherein said moving includes axial movement. 9. A method for transferring at least one wafer or other panel from a wafer station to a wafer transfer apparatus; said wafer station having a plurality of wafer supports which a wafer in the wafer station, comprising: moving a distal wafer engagement head forming a part of the wafer transfer apparatus into a lateral retracted position; laterally moving the wafer transfer apparatus into the wafer station; moving the distal wafer engagement head from the lateral retracted position into an upright engaging position; raising the wafer transfer apparatus; lifting the at least one wafer onto wafer support features on said wafer transfer apparatus; laterally removing the at least one wafer from the wafer station. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said moving includes pivoting. 11. A method according to claim 9 wherein said moving includes pivoting and axial movement. 12. A method according to claim 9 wherein said moving includes axial movement. 13. A method for simultaneously transferring a group of wafers or other panels from a wafer station to a wafer transfer apparatus; said wafer station having a plurality of wafer supports which define a columnar, discretely spaced wafer station array, comprising: moving a distal wafer engagement head forming a part of the wafer transfer apparatus into a lateral retracted position; laterally moving the wafer transfer apparatus into the wafer station; moving the distal wafer engagement head from the lateral retracted position into an upright engaging position; raising the wafer transfer apparatus; simultaneously lifting the group of wafers onto wafer support features on said wafer transfer apparatus; laterally removing the group of wafers from the wafer station. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said moving includes pivoting. 15. A method according to claim 13 wherein said moving includes pivoting and axial movement. 16. A method according to claim 13 wherein said moving includes axial movement. 