A reciprocating table assembly includes a frame, a table, and a bearing assembly for rotatably mounting the table to the frame. A cylinder assembly rotates the table at a pivot point by extending and retracting a piston rod from the cylinder. Three sensors sense which position the table is in its rotational path and signal the piston rod to either extend or contract at the appropriate time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reciprocating table assembly comprising: a frame; a table; a bearing assembly rotatably mounting said table to said frame for rotation about a table axis; a cylinder assembly comprising a cylinder, a piston, and a rod carried by said piston, said piston and rod being movable within said cylinder between extended and retracted positions; said cylinder being connected to said frame; said rod being pivotally connected to said table at a pivot point spaced from said table axis; said table being rotatable from a first position wherein said rod is in said extended position to an over center position wherein said rod is in said retracted position to a second position wherein said rod is again in said extended position; first, second, and over center sensors for sensing when said table is in said first position, said second position, and said over center position; and control means connected to said cylinder assembly and to said first, second and over center sensors for moving said rod from said extended position to said retracted position to move said table from said first position to said over center positions, and for moving said rod from said retracted position to said extended position to move said table from said over center position to said second position. 2. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 1 which further includes a disc mounted on said bearing assembly, said disc being pivotally connected to the rod of said cylinder assembly. 3. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 2 wherein the disc includes a circular flange which is pivotally connected to the rod by a clevis having upper and lower prongs and extending from the rod. 4. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 3 wherein a bolt extends downwardly from the lower prong of the clevis. 5. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 1 wherein the frame further includes first and second platforms wherein the first platform supports the bearing assembly and the second platform supports a robotic arm. 6. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 1 wherein the cylinder assembly is pivotally connected to the frame by a cross frame member. 7. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 1 wherein the over center sensor signals the rod to begin extending. 8. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 2 which further includes first and second spring-loaded stoppers connected to the disc. 9. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 8 which further includes first and second stop blocks which are stationary, and further providing that the table assembly include first and second stop members underneath the disc in rotational alignment with the first and second stop blocks. 10. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 1 further including a brake assembly comprising: a pair of brake pads movable between an engaged position holding said table against rotational movement and a disengaged position permitting said table to rotate; a spring yieldably urging said brake pads to said engaged position; and control means for moving said brake pads to said disengaged position. 11. A reciprocating table assembly according to claim 1 wherein the control means includes pneumatic power means. 