A method and associated apparatus within a storage library subsystem for simply adapting the motion of a robotic mechanism for moving media cartridges to allow for mechanical misalignments. When retracting a cartridge from a slot in the library subsystem, the present invention monitors a sensor in the gripper hand to verify that the cartridge is not being pulled from the gripper due to "snagging" caused by mechanical misalignment of the had with the slot. When a snag is sensed, the methods and apparatus of the present invention stop the motion, initiate robotic actions to regroup the cartridge securely, and retry the retraction with adjustments to the robotic movements and positions to avoid the snag. When inserting a cartridge into a slot in the library subsystem, the present invention monitors the progress of the servo motor controlling the robot to determine whether the motion is blocked due to mechanical misalignment of the robotic mechanism with the slot. If the robot is blocked from moving to a desired position, then the methods and apparatus of the present invention retries the insert operation with horizontal and/or vertical offsets of the robotic mechanisms to adjust for the mechanical misalignment. When retraction or insertion adjustments result in a successful operation, the adjustments are recorded in a memory for use in future insert or retraction operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a storage library subsystem having a rotary carousel with removable magazines with slots for storing media cartridges and having a robotic gripper hand for controllably moving media cartridges within said storage library subsystem, a method for adapting the alignment of said robotic gripper hand with one of said slots to adjust for mechanical misalignments between said gripper hand and said one of said slots comprising the steps of: (a) receiving a request to insert a media cartridge into a slot of a magazine; (b) retrieving said media cartridge into said gripper hand; (c) aligning said gripper hand with said slot responsive to receipt of said request to insert; (d) extending said gripper hand to insert said media cartridge into said slot; (e) detecting a failure of the extension of said gripper hand; (f) retracting said gripper hand responsive to detection of said failure; (g) incrementally adjusting the alignment between said gripper hand and said slot by a predetermined relative movement of said gripper hand with respect to said slot responsive to detection of said failure; (h) repeating steps (d) through (g) responsive to detection of said failure until the extension of said gripper hand succeeds by inserting said media cartridge into said slot; and (l) storing adjustment values indicative of adjustments performed by the last repetition of step (g), the stored adjustment values usable to compensate subsequent movement of said gripper hand. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the adjusting step (g) includes: moving said gripper hand vertically up relative to said slot a predetermined vertical offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of: storing said vertical offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by inserting said media cartridge into said slot, and wherein the aligning step (c) further includes: retrieving said vertical offset previously stored in said memory; and moving said gripper hand vertically a distance corresponding to said vertical offset retrieved from said memory. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the adjusting step (g) includes: moving said gripper hand vertically down relative to said slot by a predetermined vertical offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of: storing said vertical offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by inserting said media cartridge into said slot, and wherein the aligning step (c) further includes: retrieving said vertical offset previously stored in said memory; and moving said gripper hand vertically a distance corresponding to said vertical offset retrieved from said memory. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said slots are positioned around the circumference of a rotatable carousel and wherein the adjusting step (g) includes: rotating said rotatable carousel clockwise by a predetermined theta offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: storing said theta offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by inserting said media cartridge into said slot, and wherein the aligning step (c) further includes: retrieving said theta offset previously stored in said memory; and rotating said rotatable carousel clockwise a distance corresponding to said theta offset retrieved from said memory. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said slots are positioned around the circumference of a rotatable carousel and wherein the adjusting step (g) includes: rotating said rotatable carousel counterclockwise by a predetermined theta offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: storing said theta offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by inserting said media cartridge into said slot, and wherein the aligning step (c) further includes: retrieving said theta offset previously stored in said memory; and rotating said rotatable carousel counterclockwise a distance corresponding to said theta offset retrieved from said memory. 10. In a storage library subsystem having a rotary carousel with removable magazines with slots for storing media cartridges and having a robotic gripper hand for controllably moving media cartridges within said storage library subsystem, a method for adapting the alignment of said robotic gripper hand with one of said slots to adjust for mechanical misalignments between said gripper hand and said one of said slots comprising the steps of: (a) receiving a request to retract a media cartridge from a slot of a magazine; (b) aligning said gripper hand with said slot responsive to receipt of said request to retract; (c) extending said gripper hand to grasp said media cartridge; (d) retracting said gripper hand from said slot with said media cartridge; (e) detecting a loss of contact between said gripper hand and said media cartridge; (f) incrementally adjusting the alignment between said gripper hand and said slot by a predetermined relative movement of said gripper hand with respect to said slot responsive to detection of said loss of contact; (g) repeating steps (c) through (f) responsive to detection of said loss of contact until the retraction of said gripper hand with said media cartridge succeeds by retracting said media cartridge from said slot; and (h) storing adjustment values indicative of adjustments performed by the last repetition of step (f), the stored adjustment values usable to compensate subsequent movement of said gripper hand. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the adjusting step (f) includes: moving said gripper hand vertically up relative to said slot a predetermined vertical offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: storing said vertical offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by retracting said media cartridge from said slot, and wherein the aligning step (b) further includes: retrieving said vertical offset previously stored in said memory; and moving said gripper hand vertically a distance corresponding to said vertical offset retrieved from said memory. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the adjusting step (f) includes: moving said gripper hand vertically down relative to said slot by a predetermined vertical offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of: storing said vertical offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by retracting said media cartridge from said slot, and wherein the aligning step (b) further includes: retrieving said vertical offset previously stored in said memory; and moving said gripper hand vertically a distance corresponding to said vertical offset retrieved from said memory. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said slots are positioned around the circumference of a rotatable carousel and wherein the adjusting step (f) includes: rotating said rotatable carousel clockwise by a predetermined theta offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of: storing said theta offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by retracting said media cartridge from said slot, and wherein the aligning step (b) further includes: retrieving said theta offset previously stored in said memory; and rotating said rotatable carousel clockwise a distance corresponding to said theta offset retrieved from said memory. 17. The method of claim 10 wherein said slots are positioned around the circumference of a rotatable carousel and wherein the adjusting step (f) includes: rotating said rotatable carousel counterclockwise by a predetermined theta offset distance to align said gripper hand with said slot. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the step of: storing said theta offset in a memory in said storage library subsystem and associated with said slot responsive to the extension of said gripper hand succeeding by retracting said media cartridge from said slot, and wherein the aligning step (b) further includes: retrieving said theta offset previously stored in said memory; and rotating said rotatable carousel counterclockwise a distance corresponding to said theta offset retrieved from said memory. 19. A method for adapting the alignment of a robotic gripper hand, controllably operable for manipulating storage media cartridges, within a storage library subsystem having a rotary carousel with a removeable magazine comprising the steps of: detecting a failure in motion of said robotic gripper hand within said storage library subsystem due to misalignment of said robotic gripper hand with a slot in a moveable magazine in said storage library subsystem; repetitively adjusting the alignment of said robotic gripper hand, in response to detection of said failure in motion, to eliminate said failure in motion due to misalignment of said robotic gripper hand with a slot in a moveable magazine in said storage library/subsystem; storing, responsive to the adjusting step, adjustment values indicative of adjustments to said alignment of said robotic gripper hand; and applying said adjustment values to subsequent motion of said robotic gripper hand to adapt said subsequent motion to eliminate said misalignment. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said robotic gripper hand is moveable vertically up and down with respect to said storage media cartridges, the adjusting step including the step of: moving said robotic gripper hand vertically to eliminate said failure in motion due to misalignment of said robotic gripper hand. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said storage media cartridges are rotatably moveable relative to said robotic gripper hand, the adjusting step including the step of: rotating said storage media cartridges to eliminate said failure in motion due to misalignment of said robotic gripper hand. 