A traction unit has carrier sections on which suction cups are mounted that are connected to a vacuum source. The carrier units are driven around the frame by a chain driven by a motor. The frame has sections which move relative to one another in order to permit turning control of the traction unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A traction unit comprising: a plurality of carriers; at least one suction cups connected to each carrier and supplied with vacuum from a vacuum source; a carrier support frame which supports the plurality of carriers, each of the plurality of carriers having rollers engaging said carrier support frame; one of a belt and a chain connecting said plurality of carriers for driving movement of the plurality of carriers around said carrier support frame, said one of said belt and chain being driven by a motor; and a plurality of carrier support frame sections forming said carrier support frame, adjacent ones of said plurality of carrier support frame sections being flexibly connected to one another for relative movement, said one of said belt and chain extending between said adjacent ones of said flexibly connected carrier support frame sections. 2. A traction unit according to claim 1, wherein said adjacent ones of said plurality of carrier support frame sections are pivotally connected to one another and movement of one such section with respect to an adjacent section changes a direction of movement of said traction unit by repositioning one said carrier with respect to said carrier support frame. 3. A traction unit according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of carriers are equally spaced along said carrier support frame and each of said carriers is pivotally connected to a support bracket on which said rollers are supported such that said rollers engage an outer periphery of said carrier support frame and traverse said carrier support frame while permitting relative movement between said support bracket and each said carrier when adjacent ones of said plurality of carrier support frame sections are adjusted for turning movement of said traction unit. 4. A traction unit according to claim 1 wherein adjacent carrier support frame sections of said carrier support frame are adjusted by hydraulic cylinder. 5. A traction unit according to claim 1, wherein said traction unit is remotely operated by a control unit connected to said motor and connected to said hydraulic actuator for changing relative position between said carrier support frame sections of said carrier support frame. 6. A traction unit according to claim 1, wherein said traction unit is controlled independently by a program of a onboard microprocessor unit. 