An autonomous personal service robotic apparatus, such as a robotic golf caddy, including a drive assembly for movement of the robotic caddy, a digital computer having memory devices in which are stored a digital map and navigation rules, and having a operations program for the control of performance of personal services, including movement and navigation of the caddy in the environment, and a position determination assembly for determining the position of the robotic device in the environment. The position determination assembly also dynamically determines the position of unmapped elements in the environment and super imposes or overlays them with the mapped elements and position of the robotic apparatus. Position preferably is determined by differential GPS techniques. The navigational rules for the robotic device control its movement in the environment in response to its sensed position in the mapped environment, the sensed unmapped elements and preferably the sensed relative position of the user. A method of providing an autonomous, personal services robot which is well suited to provide a robotic golf caddy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous robotic apparatus comprising: a powered movable frame assembly; a computer control assembly carried by said frame assembly and coupled to control movement of said frame assembly, said computer control assembly having a map of an environment in which said robotic apparatus is to move stored therein and having navigational rules stored therein; a communications assembly carried by said frame assembly and coupled to communicate signals to said computer control assembly, said communications assembly being formed to sense the position of said robotic apparatus in said environment using differential GPS signals from a combination of GPS satellites and a fixed ground station and being formed to communicate resulting robot position signals to said computer control apparatus, and said communications assembly being further formed to sense communication signals from at least one golfer and being responsive thereto to communicate golfer position signals to said computer control assembly; and said computer control apparatus being responsive to said robot position signals and to said golfer position signals to employ said map and said navigational rules to control movement of said robotic apparatus in said environment as a function of the sensed position of said robotic apparatus and said golfer in said environment. 2. The robotic apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein, said frame assembly is adapted to carry at least one set of golf clubs to provide a golf caddy apparatus; and said map of said environment is a digitized map of a golf course. 3. The robotic apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein, said communication signals from a movable local transmitter and in response thereto to communicate local transmitter position signals to said computer control assembly; and said computer control assembly is further responsive to said local transmitter position signals to control movement of said robotic apparatus in said environment. 4. The robotic apparatus as defined in claim 1, and further comprising a signal transmitter adapted to be carried by a golfer and transmit a signal to be received by said communications assembly. 5. An autonomous, robotic, golf caddy apparatus comprising: a frame formed to carry a set of golf clubs thereon; a wheel assembly rotatably mounted to said frame for rolling support of said frame over a golf course; a drive assembly carried by said frame and coupled to drive said wheel assembly, said drive assembly including a source of power; a computer assembly carried by said frame and including a memory device, said computer assembly being coupled to control operation of said drive assembly; map data comprising a map of said golf course stored in said memory device; rules data comprising a set of operational rules for caddying on said golf course stored in said memory device; a communications apparatus carried by said frame and formed to receive communication signals from a remote caddy position determining transmitter and responsive to said communication signals to generate a caddy position signal, said communication apparatus being coupled to communicate caddy position signals to said computer assembly; an operations program stored in said computer and responsive to receipt of position signals to determine the location of said caddy apparatus on said golf course using said map data, and said operations program further being responsive to the determined location of said caddy apparatus to control movement of said caddy apparatus over said golf course using said rules data; said communications apparatus is further formed for receipt of communication signals from a transmitter carried by a golfer and is responsive thereto to generate a golfer position signal, said communication apparatus is further coupled for communication of said golfer position signal to said computer assembly; and said operations program is further responsive to receipt of golfer position signals by said computer assembly to determine the location of said golfer on said golf course using said map data, and said operations program is further responsive to the determined locations of both said golfer and said caddy apparatus to control movement of said caddy apparatus over said golf course using said rules data. 6. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said communications apparatus is formed to receive a plurality of GPS communication signals from Global Positioning System satellites and is responsive thereto to determine the location of said caddy apparatus on said golf course. 7. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein, said communication apparatus is formed to receive communication signals from a fixed terrestrial base station for differential GPS position location and is responsive to a combination of said GPS communication signals and communication signals from said base station to determine the location of said caddy apparatus on said golf course. 8. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 7 wherein, said communication apparatus is formed to receive at least one GPS communication signal per second and to respond thereto to produce at least one caddy position signal per second; and said operations program is responsive to at least one caddy position signal per second and at least one golfer position signal per second to determine the locations of said caddy apparatus and said golfer on said golf course at least once per second and to compute a best path of movement of said caddy apparatus using the determined locations and said map data and said rules data at least once per second. 9. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 7 wherein, said operations program determines the location of said golfer from said golfer position signal by first determining the location of said caddy apparatus from said caddy position signal and thereafter determining the location of said golfer relative to the location of said caddy apparatus. 10. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 7 wherein, said communication apparatus is formed to receive low power, spread spectrum, encoded, radio frequency communication signals from a golfer-carried transmitter. 11. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said communications apparatus is formed to receive golfer communication signals from two golfers and to respond thereto to produce a golfer position signal for each golfer. 12. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 11 wherein, said frame is formed to carry two sets of golf clubs. 13. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 11 wherein, said communications apparatus is formed to receive selection signals from said golfers indicating which of said two golfers said caddy apparatus should follow and is responsive to said selection signals to communicate a follow signal to said computer apparatus; and said operations program is responsive to receipt of said follow signal to control operation of said caddy apparatus based upon golfer position signals from the golfer indicated by said follow signal to be followed. 14. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said source of power is at least one rechargeable battery and said drive assembly includes an electric motor. 15. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said map data is provided as a digitized map based upon an aerial photograph of said golf course. 16. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said map data includes areas into which movement of said caddy apparatus is prohibited. 17. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said map data includes areas in which the rate of movement of said caddy apparatus is limited. 18. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said map data includes areas of hazards, greens, tees and cart paths. 19. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein, said rules data includes rules of navigation of said caddy apparatus based upon rules of golf etiquette. 20. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5, and local sensor apparatus carried by said frame and formed to sense the presence of movable and unmapped objects in proximity of said caddy apparatus, said local sensor being coupled to communicate unmapped object signals to said computer assembly indicating the location of sensed unmapped objects relative to said caddy apparatus; and said operations program being formed to be response to said unmapped object signals in combination with position signals, rules data and map data to control movement of said caddy apparatus. 21. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 20 wherein, said local sensor apparatus is comprised of sonar sensor apparatus coupled to said computer assembly. 22. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 21 wherein, said sonar sensor apparatus is provided by a plurality of sonar sensors arranged in an array oriented to sense unmapped objects in front of and along each side of said caddy apparatus. 23. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5, and display apparatus carried by said frame and coupled to said computer assembly, said computer assembly being formed to retrieve said map data and display images of said golf course as determined by the location of said caddy apparatus on said golf course. 24. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 23 wherein, said computer apparatus further displays distance indicia on said display apparatus indicating the distance of said caddy apparatus from selected features on said golf course. 25. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 5, and advice data correlated to positions on said golf course and stored in said memory device, said computer apparatus further including an output device for communication of advice to the golfer; and said operations program further being responsive to determination of the location of said caddy apparatus to make advice available to the golfer through said output device. 26. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 25 wherein, said output device is provided by a display screen carried by said frame and coupled by said computer apparatus. 27. The golf caddy apparatus as defined in claim 25, and an input device formed to communicate input signals to said computer assembly identifying the identity of the golfer using said caddy apparatus and data as to at least one of the golfer's handicap and past rounds of golf played on said golf course; and wherein said memory device stores said input signals and said operations program is responsive to provide advice for the golfer through said output device based upon identity input signals and upon the location of said caddy apparatus on said golf course. 28. The apparatus as defined in claim 27 wherein, said computer apparatus is further provided with an output device formed for output to a storage device carried by said golfer of past performance of said golfer stored in said memory device. 29. An autonomous robotic caddy apparatus comprising: a powered rolling caddy frame assembly adapted to carry at least one golf bag, a computer control assembly carried by said frame assembly and coupled to control powered movement of said frame assembly, and communications assembly carried by said frame assembly and coupled to said computer control assembly, said communications assembly being formed to determine the position of said caddy apparatus using differential GPS signals, and said computer control assembly having a stored golf course map and stored navigational rules therein, said computer control assembly being responsive to signals from said communications assembly to control of the movement of said caddy apparatus at least in part based upon the position of said caddy apparatus on said golf course and said navigational rules wherein, said communications assembly is further formed to receive position signals from a golfer transmitter and is adapted to determine the position of a golfer therefrom; and said navigational rules in said computer control assembly further control movement of said caddy apparatus at least in part based upon the position of said golfer. 30. The autonomous robotic caddy as defined in claim 29 wherein, said caddy frame further carries a sonar sensor assembly formed to sense the position of unmapped objects proximate said caddy apparatus and coupled to said computer control assembly; and said navigational rules in said computer control assembly further control movement of said caddy apparatus at least in part based upon sensed unmapped objects proximate said caddy apparatus. 31. The autonomous robotic caddy as defined in claim 30, and at least one golfer position transmitter having a size suitable for carrying by a golfer; and at least one fixed location differential GPS signal transmitter station proximate said golf course and adapted to transmit differential GPS signals to said caddy apparatus while on said golf course. 32. A robotic caddy system for a golf course comprising: (a) a plurality of powered robotic caddy apparatus each carrying and controlled by a central processing unit and a communications assembly, each said central processing unit having a navigational program therein adapted to control movement of each caddy apparatus based upon a combination of differential GPS signals and golfer position signals received by said communication assembly, a map of said golf course, and rules of movement stored in said central processing unit; (b) a fixed differential GPS station positioned proximate said golf course and formed to receive GPS signals from satellites and transmit differential GPS signals to said caddy apparatus while on said golf course; and (c) at least one golfer position transmitting beacon for each caddy apparatus and having a size suitable for carrying by a golfer. 33. The robotic caddy system as defined in claim 32 and a plurality of repeater stations positioned around said golf course and formed to receive said differential GPS signals from said fixed differential GPS station and to rebroadcast said differential GPS signals to said caddy apparatus. 34. The robotic caddy system as defined in claim 32 wherein, said communication assembly on each caddy apparatus is formed to transmit signals to said fixed differential GPS station to communicate the location of said caddy apparatus to said fixed differential GPS station. 35. The robotic caddy system as defined in claim 32 wherein, each of said caddy apparatus is adapted to repetitively determine its own caddy location on the golf course, the golfer's location on the golf course, and a best path of movement based upon said caddy location, said golfer's location and said rules of movement. 36. The robotic caddy system as defined in claim 35 wherein, each caddy apparatus further has a local sensor assembly for determination of the location of unmapped objects in proximity to said caddy apparatus. 37. The robotic caddy system as defined in claim 36 wherein, each caddy apparatus repetitively determines a best path of movement based after determining the location of unmapped objects in proximity to said caddy apparatus. 38. A method of controlling the movement of a robotic golf caddy apparatus over a golf course comprising the steps of: receiving GPS positioning signals at a powered autonomous robotic caddy apparatus having a GPS signal receiver and a computer control assembly with data comprising a map of said golf course and location-based navigational rules stored therein; receiving a golfer position signal at said caddy apparatus; and moving said caddy apparatus under control of said computer control assembly based upon determination of the locations of said caddy apparatus and said golfer on said golf course from the received signals and applying said navigational rules as a function of the determined locations. 39. The method as defined in claim 38 wherein, said moving step is accomplished by calculating a best path of movement based upon said locations and said navigational rules; and said calculating step is repeated as said caddy apparatus is moving to provide a new best path of movement. 40. The method as defined in claim 38 and the step of: sensing the presence of objects in proximity of said caddy apparatus by a sensor assembly carried thereby and coupled to said computer control assembly; and performing said moving step by applying said navigational rules after said sensing step and while considering sensed objects. 41. The method as defined in claim 38 wherein, said step of receiving a golfer position at said caddy apparatus is accomplished by receiving two golfer position signals to said caddy apparatus and receiving a selection signal at said caddy apparatus; and said moving step is accomplished by applying said navigational based upon only one of said golfer position signal as determined by said selection signal. 42. The method as defined in claim 38 wherein, said receiving step is accomplished by receiving GPS signals from a plurality of satellites and receiving a GPS connection signal from a fixed ground station to determine said location of said caddy apparatus. 