A method in which the wires from the heads on an actuator arm can be positioned and attached to the arm electronics automatically. A loadspring manufacturing assembly has a pair of wire carrying and positioning tails and a disposable portion. The disposable portion and the wire carrying and positioning tails each have pegs for controlling the position of the wire and for allowing twisting of the wire pairs for purposes of noise suppression. The wires are positioned about the pegs and twisted. The wires are then bonded to the loadspring assembly. A portion of the wire carrying tail has a window or opening therein. The wires are fanned out and spaced apart as they pass across the window. The wire carrying portion also has a living hinge. A portion of the wire carrying tail which includes a latching window which latches a peg is moved about the hinge and positioned at about a right angle to the loadspring. The disposable portion and the unused tail are removed. The remaining assembly is attached to the arm electronics module through the window with the spaced apart wires.
Claims What we claims is: 1. A method for manufacturing an actuator arm assembly, comprising the steps of: placing a loadspring assembly in a fixture for holding said loadspring assembly; positioning a plurality of discrete electrically conductive wires with respect to said loadspring assembly, wherein said plurality of discrete electrically conductive wires are positioned automatically by a mechanical wire stringing apparatus having a plurality of spools of wire, each of said plurality of discrete electrically conductive wires being strung from a respective spool of said plurality of spools of wire, each said spool holding wire of greater length than required for an individual loadspring assembly, the wire from said spool being cut after said positioning step is complete, said positioning step being performed while said loadspring assembly is held in place by said fixture; bonding said plurality of discrete wires to said loadspring assembly with an adhesive to form a non-electrically conductive attachment of said wires to said loadspring, said bonding step being performed while said plurality of discrete wires are positioned with respect to said loadspring assembly; and electrically connecting a first end of each respective wire to a transducer attached to one end of said loadspring assembly. 2. The method for manufacturing an actuator arm assembly of claim 1, wherein said step of positioning a plurality of discrete wires comprises twisting said wires about each other. 3. The method for manufacturing an actuator arm assembly of claim 1, further comprising the step of: electrically connecting a second end of each respective wire to electronic apparatus for supporting said transducer. 4. The method for manufacturing an actuator arm assembly of claim 3, wherein said step of positioning a plurality of discrete wires comprises twisting said wires about each other. 5. The method for manufacturing an actuator arm assembly of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: attaching a removable wire positioning member to said loadspring assembly, said step of attaching a removable wire positioning member being performed before said step of positioning a plurality of discrete electrically conductive wires; and removing said removable wire positioning member from said loadspring assembly, said step of removing said removable wire positioning member being performed after said step of positioning a plurality of discrete electrically conductive wires, wherein said mechanical wire stringing apparatus strings said plurality of discrete electrically conductive wires using one or more features of said removable wire positioning member. 