A simulated golf game in which a remotely controlled golfer plays on a miniature course, The physical mechanisms and methods of control of the game are directed to heighten its realism. The course has all the characteristics of a real golf course, e.g., hills, valleys, sand traps, and trees. The golfer is a model human figure who plays a miniature ball free that is to roll anywhere on the course. The golfer is remotely controlled through an overhead gantry positioning mechanism that connects to the golfer's back by way of a small-diameter rigid tube. The gantry simulates walking by moving the tube, with the golfer attached, about the golf course. Animation of the golfer itself (bending at the waist, swinging the club, etc.) is effected by a set of electric motors driving cables running inside the tube. Many of the motors are operated simultaneously to give the golfer a lifelike look. The motor operations are controlled by a computer. The game can be played by a person with a joystick control that requires skill to manipulate. Alternatively, the computer can play the game by itself by locating the ball's position with the aid of an overhead camera. The computer can also assist the human player to varying degrees to provide the game with beginner and advanced levels of skill.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A model game, which comprises: a model playing area; said model playing area including terrain with relief that models real terrain; at least one model figure; means for supporting said at least one model figure from overhead; said means for supporting including means for remotely controlling a plurality of motions of said at least one figure; said means for remotely controlling including a microcomputer; said means for remotely controlling including means for modeling a plurality of motions of a real player playing a real game on a real playing area; said means for modeling including means for positioning said at least one figure to appear to be on said model playing area; and said means for positioning effective for positioning said at least one model figure in three dimensions. 2. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said game is golf and said model playing area models a real golf course. 3. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said means for remotely controlling includes means for making said at least one figure follow irregular terrain on said model playing area. 4. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said means for supporting includes an overhead support. 5. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said means for modeling includes a video camera. 6. A model game as in claim 2, wherein said means for remotely controlling includes :means for making said at least one figure strike a ball in imitation of a real player's stroke. 7. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said means for remotely controlling includes means for intervention by a human player. 8. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said means for remotely controlling includes means for complete control by a human player. 9. A model game as in claim 1, wherein said means for remotely controlling is effective without intervention by a human player. 10. Apparatus for controlling a plurality of motions of a model sports-playing figure, which comprises: said plurality of motions including a first class of motions of said figure as an entirety and a second class of motions of portions of said figure; first means for controlling, said first means controlling motions of said first class on a two-dimensional plane; second means for controlling, said second means controlling motions of said first class in a vertical dimension; third means for controlling, said third means controlling motions of said first class in rotation about a vertical axis through said figure; fourth means for controlling, said fourth means controlling motions of said second class; means for supporting said figure, said means for supporting being located overhead said figure; and said means for supporting further comprising support for said first, second, third, and fourth means for controlling. 11. Apparatus as in claim 10, wherein each of said first, second, third, and fourth means for controlling includes a stepping motor. 12. Apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said second means for controlling automatically places said figure immediately above a particular point on a surface of varying height. 13. Apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said fourth means for controlling includes means for making said figure bend at the waist. 14. Apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said fourth means for controlling includes means for making said figure twist its torso relative to its legs. 15. Apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said fourth means for controlling includes means for making said figure move its arms up and down. 16. Apparatus for making a model figure stroke a ball to a cup, which comprises: means for locating said ball on a playing surface; said means for locating including a video camera and a microcomputer; means for positioning said model figure adjacent said ball; said means for positioning including said microcomputer; means for determining, cooperating with said means for locating and said means for positioning, for calculating a force and a direction of a stroke; said means for determining including said microcomputer; and means for making said model figure make said stroke with said force in said direction, whereby said ball moves proximately to said cup. 17. Apparatus as in claim 16, wherein: said means for locating defines a map of a variable surface in x and y coordinates; said means for determining defines a pair of a first and a second location in said x and y coordinates; said first location is defined as the location of said model figure and said second location is defined as the location of said ball; and said means for determining is effective for storing said force and said direction for each of said pairs of locations, whereby said means for making is effective for causing said model figure to stroke said ball from said second location proximately to said cup. 18. A method of causing a model figure to stroke a ball to a cup, which comprises: measuring a location of said ball on a playing surface in x, y, and z coordinates with a video camera; positioning said model figure in locational x, y, z coordinates; positioning said model figure in an angular coordinate that measures rotation of said figure from an axis; determining a magnitude for said stroke; and operating said model figure to make said stroke. 19. Apparatus for positioning a model figure, which comprises: means for measuring a location of said model figure on a surface in x and y coordinates; said means for measuring including a video camera; means for associating a z coordinate with each location of said model figure defined by said x and y coordinates; said means for associating including a microcomputer; means for positioning said model figure in said z direction according to said x and y coordinates when said location is occupied by said model figure; and said means for positioning including a plurality of stepping motors. 20. Apparatus for positioning a model figure as in claim 19, wherein said means for positioning includes at least one double-stranded sheathed cable, whereby at least one motion of said model figure is controlled by a cable subject only to tension forces. 