An automated storage system uses a pass-through picker assembly interposed between a storage device and a plurality of storage cells, wherein the pass-through picker assembly is mounted on an accessor and incorporates independently operating fore and aft grippers driven by a single motor. The fore and aft grippers are tandemly mounted such that the fore gripper can be aligned to one of a plurality of storage cartridges located with the storage cells, and the aft gripper can be aligned with a storage slot of the storage device. The pass-through picker design allows the fore gripper to grasp a storage cartridge, feed the cartridge through to the aft gripper, release, and then allow the aft gripper to grip and pass the storage cartridge to the storage slot. In this way, a special priority cell of the storage cells, directly across from the storage slot, can very quickly pass a priority storage cartridge directly to the storage device without moving the pass-through picker assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transporting an article from a first location to a second location using a pass-thru picker mechanism having fore and aft grippers mounted in tandem on a mounting channel for passing the article therethru, said method comprising steps of: (a) moving the pass-thru picker assembly to the article such that the article is located partially within the fore gripper; (b) gripping the article by closing the fore gripper; (c) moving the article out of the first location and into an intermediate location between the fore and aft grippers; (d) opening the fore gripper; (e) transporting the picker mechanism for moving the article adjacent to the second location; (f) re-gripping the article by closing the aft gripper, while the fore gripper remains open; and (g) moving the article into the second location and opening the aft gripper. 2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising a step (h) of turning a motor in a first direction for closing the fore gripper while the aft gripper remains open. 3. The method according to claim 2 further comprising a step (i) of turning the motor in a second direction for opening the fore gripper and closing the aft gripper. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the fore and aft grippers are in an open position when the article is in the intermediate position. 5. A picker assembly having first and second openings and a mounting channel therebetween for receiving an article into the first opening, through the mounting channel, and into the second opening, said picker assembly comprising: a first gripper at the first opening for gripping the article and moving the article substantially through the first gripper; a second gripper at the second opening, the second gripper located in tandem with the first gripper, the second gripper gripping the article in the mounting channel, and moving the article out of the mounting channel and substantially through the second gripper; and a first motor coupled for independently opening and closing the first and second grippers. 6. The picker assembly according to claim 5 wherein the first and second grippers are mounted parallel to the mounting channel. 7. The picker assembly according to claim 6 further comprising a second motor for moving the article substantially through said picker assembly. 8. The picker assembly according to claim 7 wherein said first motor closes the first gripper while the motor is rotated in a first direction, and the first motor closes the second gripper while the first motor is rotated in a second direction. 9. The picker assembly according to claim 8 wherein the first motor opens the first gripper while the motor is rotated in the second direction, and the first motor opens the second gripper while the motor is rotated in the first direction. 