An apparatus and method which provides a suitable location for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds. The apparatus consists of: a reservoir block having a plurality of wells; a plurality of reaction tubes, usually gas dispersion tubes, having filters on their lower ends; a holder block, having a plurality of apertures; and a manifold, which may have ports to allow introduction/maintenance of a controlled environment. The manifold top wall has apertures and a detachable plate with identical apertures. The apparatus is constructed from materials which will accommodate heating, cooling, agitation, or corrosive reagents. Gaskets are placed between the components. Rods or clamps are provided for fastening the components together. Apparatus operation involves placing the filters on the lower ends of the reaction tubes in the reservoir block wells, and the upper ends passing through the holder block apertures and into the manifold. The apparatus provides in excess of 1 mg of each product with structural knowledge and control over each compound. The apparatus can be adapted to manual, semiautomatic or fully automatic performance. Using the apparatus a series of building blocks are covalently attached to a solid support. These building blocks are then modified by covalently adding additional different building blocks or chemically modifying some existing functionality until the penultimate structure is achieved. This is then cleaved from the solid support by another chemical reaction into the solution within the well yielding an array of newly synthesized individual compounds, which after postreaction modification, if necessary, are suitable for testing for activity.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, and a first fastening mechanism for only fastening together said holder member and said manifold member, and a second independent fastening mechanism for only fastening together said holder member and said reservoir member. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising sealing means for sealing together said holder member, said reservoir member and said manifold member. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said sealing means comprises a first gasket member positioned between said holder member and said reservoir member and a second gasket member positioned between said holder member and said manifold member. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein at least one of said first and second fastening mechanisms comprises spring clip members. 5. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member, a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said manifold member, and a first fastening mechanism for only fastening together said holder member and said manifold member, and a second independent fastening mechanism for only fastening together said holder member and said reservoir member. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member and said means for providing a seal between said holder member and said manifold member each comprise a gasket member. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said means for fastening comprises spring clip members. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said filter devices are hollow, cup-shaped fritted glass members. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 further comprising at least one aperture in each of said reaction tubes for equalizing pressure differentials in said apparatus. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 further comprising means for equalizing pressure differentials separately and independently between each of said reaction tubes and each of said corresponding reaction wells. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one aperture in at least one reaction tube located above the filter device on the lower end of said reaction tube. 