The present invention concerns in situ polymerase chain reaction and provides methods and reagents for identifying cells containing at least one selected nucleic acid sequence which may be derived from the human immunodeficiency virus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying a cell containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence comprising: (a) exposing said cell to dry heat thereby fixing said cell to a solid support to produce a heat fixed immobilized cell; (b) contacting said heat fixed immobilized cell with paraformaldehyde to produce a paraformaldehyde treated, heat fixed immobilized cell; (c) contacting said paraformaldehyde treated, heat fixed immobilized cell containing selected nucleic acid sequence or nucleic acid sequences with oligonucleotide primers complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences to form a nucleic acid hybrid and generating an extension product by amplification in said cell; (d) separating into single stranded nucleic acid molecules, the extension product generated in step (c) to provide single-stranded nucleic acid molecules of the selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences in said cell; (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) to amplify said selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences; (f) hybridizing a labeled nucleic acid probe to said amplified selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences provided in step (e); and (g) observing a labeled cell produced in step (f), wherein a labeled cell indicates a cell containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the selected nucleic acid sequences derive from a human virus. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of the selected nucleic acid sequences derive from human immunodeficiency virus and comprise one of the following sequences: long terminal repeat (LTR) sequence; the tat gene sequence; or the gag gene sequence. 4. The method of claim 2 whereby at least one of the selected nucleic acid sequences are proviral nucleic acid sequences. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are derived from sequences complementary to sequences of HIV-1 or HIV-2. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of said nucleic acid sequences is derived from recombinants, mutants or variants of said human virus. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are derived from sequences complementary to HLA-DQ.alpha. or SK-19. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said cells are human cells. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said cells are human peripheral blood lymphocytic cells. 10. A method for identifying a cell containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence comprising: (a) exposing said cell to dry heat thereby fixing said cell to a solid support; (b) paraformaldehyde treating said heat fixed cell; (c) contacting said heat fixed, paraformaldehyde treated cell containing selected nucleic acid sequence or nucleic acid sequences with a single primer pair complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences to form a nucleic acid hybrid and generating an extension product by amplification in said cell; (d) separating into single stranded nucleic acid molecules, the extension product generated in step (c) to provide single-stranded nucleic acid molecules of the selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences in said cell; (e) repeating steps (c) and (d) to amplify said selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences; (f) hybridizing a labeled nucleic acid probe to said amplified selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences provided in step (e) in said cell; and (g) observing a labeled cell produced in step (f), wherein said labeled cell indicates a cell containing at least one copy of a selected nucleic acid sequence. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that consist of at least 10 nucleotides. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that comprise 10-30 nucleotides. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that consist of at least 10 nucleotides. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said oligonucleotide primers are fully complementary to regions of selected nucleic acid sequence or sequences that comprise 10-30 nucleotides. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said amplification comprises the polymerase chain reaction. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said amplification comprises the polymerase chain reaction. 