An apparatus for color sensing is disclosed. The apparatus includes a set of color sensor tolerances for a Non-Contact color sensor device; and a Contact color sensor device, conforming to the set of color sensor tolerances.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for color sensing, comprising: a micro-controller to execute instructions to operate a color sensor device under a contact color sensing operation; and instructions to switch operation of the color sensor device to a non-contact color sensing operation in response to a triggering event. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an aperture to receive a predetermined amount of light from a surface whose color is to be measured; a detector to convert the light received by the aperture into analog electrical signals; and an analog-to-digital converter to covert the analog electrical signals into digital signals, wherein the micro-controller is further to execute instructions to transform the digital signals into a set of color measurement output data. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an illumination device to illuminate a spot on a surface whose color is to be measured, wherein the illumination device includes a plurality of LEDs having different wavelengths, and wherein the plurality of LEDs are to sequentially illuminate the spot. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, a receptacle, wherein the triggering event to switch the operation of the color sensor device includes the color sensor device being inserted into the receptacle. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: a battery in the color sensor device; and a connector to charge the battery in the color sensor device when the color sensor device is placed in the receptacle. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a removable tip coupled to the color sensor device, wherein the triggering event to switch the operation of the color sensor device includes the removable tip being uncoupled from the color sensor device. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a height sensor to calculate a height between the color sensor device and a surface whose color is to be measured, wherein the micro-controller is further to execute instructions to recalculate the height between the color sensor device and the surface when the operation of the color sensor device switches. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: wherein the micro-controller is further to execute instructions to capture a set of color measurement data in response to a controller signal in the non-contact color sensing operation, and instructions for capturing a set of color measurement data in response to a trigger being pulled by a user in the contact color sensing operation. 9. A apparatus for color sensing, comprising: a micro-controller to execute instructions to operate a color sensor device under a non-contact color sensing operation; and instructions to switch operation of the color sensor device to a contact color sensing operation in response to a triggering event. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: a removable tip, wherein the triggering event includes the removable tip being coupled to the color sensor device. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: a height sensor to calculate a height between the color sensor device and a surface whose color is to be measured. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: a receptacle, wherein the micro-controller is to execute the color sensor device under the non-contact color sensing operation when the color sensor device is inserted into the receptacle, and wherein the triggering event to switch the operation of the color sensor device includes the color sensor device being removed from the receptacle. 13. A apparatus comprising: a color sensor device to operate under a contact color sensing operation; and a receptacle detachably coupling the color sensor device to a platform, wherein, in response to the color sensor device being inserted into the receptacle, the color sensor device is to be switched to operate under a non-contact color sensing operation. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the color sensor device further comprises: an illumination device to illuminate a spot on a surface whose color is to be measured, wherein the illumination device includes a plurality of LEDs having different wavelengths, and wherein the plurality of LEDs are to sequentially illuminate the spot. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the receptacle prevents coupling of the color sensor device to the platform if a removable tip is coupled to the color sensor device. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the receptacle provides a signal to instruct the color sensor device to switch from the contact color sensing operation to the non-contact color sensing operation. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the receptacle includes one interface connection from a group including: a power connector, a data connector, a wireless connection, and contact plates. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the receptacle reduces an ambient light level reaching the color sensor device. 19. A method for color sensing, comprising: execute instructions, by a micro-controller, to operate a color sensor device under a contact color sensing operation; detecting a triggering event; and execute instructions, by the micro-controller, to switch the color sensor device to a non-contact color sensing operation in response to a triggering event. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the triggering event includes placing the color sensor device into a receptacle. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the color sensor device includes a removable tip, and wherein the triggering event includes the removable tip being removed from the color sensor device. 