The present invention is a receiver made by a welding process. The receiver made according to this process has less net distortion because of a number of techniques used in the process, including: (1) cooling the weld with Carbon Dioxide (CO.sub.2) preheated with the welding torch tip; (2) use of not more than approximately 4% oxygen in the shield gas to enable hotter, faster welding; (3) the use of a reduced voltage and wire feed rate at the end of a weld to avoid cracking; (4) the intentional use of distortion to reduce net distortion; and (5) sequencing of welds to reduce distortion. Distortion can be introduced in the stamped parts as they are made or when placed in a fixture for welding that, when welded, have less distortion than before. Distortion can also be countered by welding parts in a sequence where a subsequent weld reduces the distortion of a previous weld.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A receiver for a weapon, said receiver made by a process comprising the steps of: forming a receiver body from sheet steel; placing said receiver body in a fixture; distorting said receiver body; clamping metal parts of said receiver to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joint therebetween; arc welding said parts to said receiver body in the presence of a first gas mixture; continuing to heat said receiver body until said distortion is eliminated; and removing said receiver from said fixture. 2. The receiver as recited in claim 1, said process further comprising the steps of cooling said joints following said arc welding step. 3. The receiver as recited in claim 1, said process further comprising the steps of: warming a second gas mixture to a first temperature; and blowing said warmed second gas mixture onto said joints after each joint is arc welded; allowing said warmed second gas mixture to cool from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature to cool said joint gradually in a first interval. 4. The receiver as recited in claim 1, wherein said arc welding step is performed by a welding torch having a tip that becomes hot in arc welding and said process further comprises the step of blowing a second gas mixture by said tip and onto said joints after said joints are arc welded so that said gas mixture can absorb heat from said torch, whereby said gas mixture is preheated to a first temperature before striking said arc welded joint, said gas mixture cooling from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature. 5. The receiver as recited in claim 1, said process further comprising the step of cooling said arc welded joints until said joints are no longer red hot. 6. The receiver as recited in claim 1, wherein said joints have a center and a periphery, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said receiver body and said part are molten near said joint; heating said center. 7. The receiver as recited in claim 1, wherein said receiver body has a first side and an opposing, second side, and said joints include a first joint on said first side and a second joint on said second side of said receiver body, said arc welding step further comprising the steps of: arc welding said first joint on said first side, said arc welding producing a first distortion of said receiver body; and arc welding said second joint on said second side so that said second joint is welded, said arc welding of said second joint producing a second distortion, said first and said second distortion off-setting each other. 8. The receiver as recited in claim 1, wherein said arc welding of said joints is done in a sequence so that distortion produced by arc welding one joint is offset by welding at least one other joint. 9. A receiver for a weapon, wherein said receiver body has a first side and an opposing second side, and said joints include a first joint on said first side and a second joint on said second side of said receiver body, said receiver made by a process comprising the steps of: forming a receiver body from sheet steel; placing said receiver body in a fixture; clamping metal parts of said receiver to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joint therebetween; arc welding said parts to said receiver body in the presence of a first gas mixture by arc welding said first joint on said first side, said arc welding producing a first distortion of said receiver body, and arc welding said second joint on said second side so that said second joint is welded, said arc welding of said second joint producing a second distortion, said first and said second distortion off-setting each other; and removing said receiver from said fixture. 10. The receiver as recited in claim 9, wherein said receiver body is formed with a distortion so that said distortion is eliminated by the step of arc welding said parts. 11. The receiver as recited in claim 9, said process further comprising the step of cooling said joints following said arc welding step. 12. The receiver as recited in claim 9, said process further comprising the steps of: warming a second gas mixture to a first temperature; and blowing said warmed second gas mixture onto said joints after each joint is arc welded; allowing said warmed second gas mixture to cool from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature to cool said joint gradually in a first interval. 13. The receiver as recited in claim 9, wherein said arc welding step is performed by a welding torch having a tip that becomes hot in arc welding and said process further comprises the step of blowing a second gas mixture by said tip and onto said joints after said joints are arc welded so that said gas mixture can absorb heat from said torch, whereby said gas mixture is preheated to a first temperature before striking said are welded joint, said gas mixture cooling from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature. 14. The receiver as recited in claim 9, said process further comprising the step of cooling said are welded joints until said joints are no longer red hot. 15. The receiver as recited in claim 9, wherein said joints have a center and a periphery, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said receiver body and said part are molten near said joint; heating said center. 16. The receiver as recited in claim 9, wherein said are welding of said joints is done in a sequence so that distortion produced by arc welding one joint is offset by welding at least one other joint. 17. A receiver for a weapon, said receiver made by a process comprising the steps of: forming a receiver body from sheet steel; placing said receiver body in a fixture; clamping metal parts of said receiver to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joints therebetween; arc welding said parts to said receiver body in the presence of a first gas mixture and in a sequence so that distortion produced by arc welding one joint is offset by welding at least one other joint; and removing said receiver from said fixture. 18. The receiver as recited in claim 17, wherein said receiver body is formed with a distortion so that said distortion is eliminated by the step of arc welding said parts. 19. The receiver as recited in claim 17, said process further comprising the steps of cooling said joints following said arc welding step. 20. The receiver as recited in claim 17, said process further comprising the steps of: warming a second gas mixture to a first temperature; and blowing said warmed second gas mixture onto said joints after each joint is arc welded; allowing said warmed second gas mixture to cool from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature to cool said joint gradually in a first interval. 21. The receiver as recited in claim 17, wherein said arc welding step is performed by a welding torch having a tip that becomes hot in arc welding and said process further comprises the step of blowing a second gas mixture by said tip and onto said joints after said joints are are welded so that said gas mixture can absorb heat from said torch, whereby said gas mixture is preheated to a first temperature before striking said arc welded joint, said gas mixture cooling from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature. 22. The receiver as recited in claim 17, said process further comprising the step of cooling said arc welded joints until said joints are no longer red hot. 23. The receiver as recited in claim 17, wherein said joints have a center and a periphery, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said receiver body and said part are molten near said joint; heating said center. 24. The receiver as recited in claim 17, wherein said receiver body has a first side and an opposing, second side, and said joints include a first joint on said first side and a second joint on said second side of said receiver body, said arc welding step further comprising the steps of: arc welding said first joint on said first side, said arc welding producing a first distortion of said receiver body; and arc welding said second joint on said second side so that said second joint is welded, said arc welding of said second joint producing a second distortion, said first and said second distortion off-setting each other. 