A variable form spray system includes a robot manipulator, a masking tool assembly integrated with the manipulator, sealer supply hardware which supplies spray material to the manipulator and sealer recovery hardware which recovers material sprayed and skived by the masking tool assembly. Spray pattern form is controlled by collecting overspray using adjustable skive manifolds of the assembly on each side of the spray pattern which function to vacuum off the edges of the airless spray pattern. The positions of the skive manifolds are programmable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for spraying material in a spray pattern having a variable form and collecting excess material, the system comprising: material supply apparatus for supplying spraying material; a spray applicator fluidly coupled to the supply apparatus for spraying the material in a spray pattern; a masking tool assembly coupled to the spray applicator and including first and second skive manifolds constructed to be adjustably positioned relative to the spray applicator for masking portions of the spray pattern of the material and collecting excess material during spraying by the spray applicator; a controller for generating a first set of control signals; a drive mechanism coupled to the controller and constructed and arranged to receive said first set of control signals to adjust the positions of the first and second skive manifolds to vary the form of the spray pattern; and material recovery apparatus fluidly connected to the material supply apparatus for returning material collected by the pair of skive manifolds to the material supply apparatus, the material recovery apparatus including a compressed air venturi nozzle fluidly connected to the skive manifolds for evacuating and subsequently driving the excess material into the material supply apparatus such that the excess material may be reused. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first skive manifold is located at a first side of the spray pattern and the second skive manifold is located at a second side of the spray pattern substantially opposite the first side. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the material recovery apparatus includes at least one material recovery tank and a vacuum source fluidly coupled to the pair of skive manifolds constructed and arranged for sucking the excess material from the pair of skive manifolds and depositing the excess material in the at least one material recovery tank. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the material recovery apparatus includes a recovery pump fluidly connected to the material supply apparatus and at least one sensor for sensing the amount of material in the at least one material recovery tank and for generating a sense signal in response thereto, the recovery pump being responsive to the sense signal to pump the material from the at least one recovery tank to the material supply apparatus. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive mechanism is a servo controlled linear actuator connected to the first and second skive manifolds and wherein the linear actuator is constructed and arranged to receive the first set of control signals to control the position of the linear actuator. 6. The system as claimed in claim 5 further comprising a linkage assembly connected to the linear actuator for transmitting motion of the linear actuator to the first and second skive manifolds to adjust the positions of the first and second skive manifolds. 7. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive mechanism includes first and second servo controlled actuators connected to the first and second skive manifolds, respectively, to control the positions of the first and second skive manifolds, respectively. 8. The system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a manipulator wherein the spray applicator is mounted on the manipulator, and wherein the manipulator is responsive to manipulator control signals generated by the controller. 9. A system for spraying material in a spray pattern having a variable form and collecting excess material, the system comprising: material supply apparatus for supplying spraying material; a spray applicator fluidly coupled to the supply apparatus for spraying the material in a spray pattern; a masking tool assembly coupled to the spray applicator and including first and second skive manifolds constructed to be adjustably positioned relative to the spray applicator for masking portions of the spray pattern of the material and collecting excess material during spraying by the spray applicator; a controller for generating a first set of control signals; and a drive mechanism coupled to the controller and constructed and arranged to receive said first set of control signals to adjust the positions of the first and second skive manifolds to vary the form of the spray pattern, the drive mechanism including first and second servo controlled actuators connected to the first and second skive manifolds, respectively, to control the positions of the first and second skive manifolds, respectively. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the first skive manifold is located at a first side of the spray pattern and the second skive manifold is located at a second side of the spray pattern substantially opposite the first side. 11. The system as claimed in claim 9 further comprising material recovery apparatus fluidly connected to the material supply apparatus for returning material collected by the pair of skive manifolds to the material supply apparatus. 12. The system as claimed in claim 9 wherein each of the first and second servo controlled actuators is a servo controlled linear actuator and wherein each of the linear actuators is constructed and arranged to receive the first set of control signals to control the positions of each of the linear actuators. 13. The system as claimed in claim 9 further comprising a manipulator wherein the spray applicator is mounted on the manipulator, and wherein the manipulator is responsive to manipulator control signals generated by the controller. 14. A system for spraying material in a spray pattern having a variable form and collecting excess material, the system comprising: material supply apparatus for supplying spraying material; a spray applicator fluidly coupled to the supply apparatus for spraying the material in a spray pattern; a masking tool assembly coupled to the spray applicator and including first and second skive manifolds constructed to be adjustably positioned relative to the spray applicator for masking portions of the spray pattern of the material and collecting excess material during spraying by the spray applicator; a controller for generating a first set of control signals; a drive mechanism coupled to the controller and constructed and arranged to receive said first set of control signals to adjust the positions of the first and second skive manifolds to vary the form of the spray pattern, the drive mechanism being a servo controlled linear actuator connected to the first and second skive manifolds and wherein the linear actuator is constructed and arranged to receive the first set of control signals to control the position of the linear actuator; and a linkage assembly connected to the linear actuator for transmitting motion of the linear actuator to the first and second skive manifolds to adjust the positions of the first and second skive manifolds. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14 wherein the first skive manifold is located at a first side of the spray pattern and the second skive manifold is located at a second side of the spray pattern substantially opposite the first side. 16. The system as claimed in claim 14 further comprising material recovery apparatus fluidly connected to the material supply apparatus for returning material collected by the pair of skive manifolds to the material supply apparatus. 17. The system as claimed in claim 14 wherein the drive mechanism includes first and second servo controlled actuators connected to the first and second skive manifolds, respectively, to control the positions of the first and second skive manifolds, respectively. 18. The system as claimed in claim 14, further comprising a manipulator wherein the spray applicator is mounted on the manipulator, and wherein the manipulator is responsive to manipulator control signals generated by the controller. 