An apparatus and methods are provided for performing maintenance procedures such as washing, cleaning, deicing, and painting to an aircraft. The apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention preferably has a horizontally-extending mounting track and a track follower connected to the mounting track for following the mounting track. A maintenance tool support base preferably is connected to the track follower for supporting a maintenance tool thereon. An extending and retracting assembly is connected to the support base and to the track follower for extending the support base outwardly from the track follower and toward a portion of an aircraft and for retracting the support base inwardly from a portion of an aircraft and toward the track follower. An aircraft contour following assembly preferably is rotatably mounted to the support base and adapted for positioning adjacent an aircraft for following the contour of an aircraft to perform a maintenance procedure thereto. The aircraft contour following assembly includes at least one maintenance tool such as used for washing, cleaning, deicing, or painting an aircraft.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An apparatus for maintaining an aircraft, the apparatus comprising: a support base; a vertically-extending track rotatably mounted to said support base; first carriage means for carrying at least one maintenance tool thereon; and second carriage means slidably mounted to said vertically-extending support track and slidably connected to said first carriage means for carrying said first carriage means to perform a maintenance procedure on an aircraft. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said second carriage means moves along a path of travel being defined as a generally vertical direction generally corresponding to the height of an aircraft. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said at least one maintenance tool of said first carriage means includes either an aircraft fuselage cleaning tool or an aircraft tail cleaning tool mounted thereto. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said second carriage means includes a carriage track, and wherein said first carriage means further includes a carriage yoke following member connected to said carriage track of said second carriage means for following said carriage track, pivoting means connected to said carriage yoke following member for pivoting the at least one maintenance tool in a generally horizontal plane, an arm connected to said pivoting means for extending outwardly away from and inwardly toward said carriage yoke following member and said pivoting means, and a tool holding fixture connected to said extendable arm, the at least one maintenance tool being connected to said tool holding fixture. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said tool holding fixture of said first carriage means includes tool pivoting means for pivoting the at least one maintenance tool along an arcuate contour of the outer surface of an aircraft. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the at least one maintenance tool comprises aircraft cleaning means connected to said tool pivoting means for cleaning an aircraft, said aircraft cleaning means having a tool base, a pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes detachably connected to said tool base, and a cleaning fluid delivery head detachably connected to said tool base and positioned between said pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 6, wherein said tool base includes a pair of spaced-apart cleaning brush yokes respectively adapted to receive said pair of cleaning brushes and a cleaning fluid delivery yoke adapted to receive s aid cleaning fluid delivery head. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein each of said pair of cleaning brush yokes includes a tool platen for receiving the cleaning brush and a retainer for detachably retaining the cleaning brush, and wherein each of said pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes has a generally trapezoidal shape and a plurality of bristles connected to the distal end thereof, the proximal end of said trapezoidal-shaped cleaning brush being detachably connected to said cleaning brush yoke and having a lateral extent shorter than the lateral extent of the distal end so that said plurality of bristles of distal end portions of said pair of spaced-apart cleaning brushes overlappingly contact each other. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said support base is connected to a vehicle. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said second carriage means comprises a yoke follower connected to said vertically-extending track for following said vertically-extending track along a generally vertical plane and a horizontally-extending track connected to said yoke follower and said first carriage means to thereby allow said first carriage means to move in a generally horizontal plane. 11. A method of maintaining an aircraft, the method comprising: rotating a vertically-extending track positioned adjacent a portion of an aircraft about a support base; carrying at least one maintenance tool on the vertically-extending track in a first generally vertical path of travel corresponding to the height of the aircraft; and carrying the at least one maintenance tool in a second generally horizontal path of travel corresponding to the lengthwise extent of a portion of the aircraft to perform a maintenance procedure to the aircraft. 12. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising positioning the at least one maintenance tool so as to abuttingly contact a portion of an aircraft. 13. A method as defined in claim 12, further comprising carrying the at least one maintenance tool along a third path of travel corresponding to the lateral extent of a portion of the aircraft. 14. A method as defined in claim 13, further comprising following the contour of portions of a tail of an aircraft. 15. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising upwardly and downwardly pivoting the at least one maintenance tool along an arcuate contour of a portion of the outer surface of an aircraft. 16. A method as defined in claim 11, further comprising rotatably mounting the vertically-extending track to a vehicle and positioning the vehicle adjacent a portion an aircraft. 