A method and apparatus for in situ addition calibration of an inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer or mass spectrometer using a precision gas metering valve to introduce a volatile calibration gas of an element of interest directly into an aerosol particle stream. The present situ calibration technique is suitable for various remote, on-site sampling systems such as laser ablation or nebulization.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for determining the concentration of an element of interest in a sample contained in an aerosol stream, comprising: an inductively coupled plasma spectrometer for vaporizing, atomizing, and ionizing at least the element of interest to emit characteristic emissions, the emissions generating an output signal in the spectrometer with an intensity proportional to the quantity of the element of interest; an aerosol delivery system for delivering the aerosol stream to the inductively coupled plasma spectrometer, the aerosol stream containing a carrier gas and the element of interest; means for measuring the mass flow rate of the aerosol stream; a volatile calibration gas compound of the element of interest; and a precision gas metering valve for introducing a series of known quantities of a volatile calibration gas directly into the aerosol stream, the metering valve determining the mass flow rate of the calibration gas and the spectrometer generating an output signal intensity proportional to the quantity of calibration gas and element of interest present in the aerosol so that a standard addition curve of the intensity versus the quantity of calibration gas added can be generated to determine the concentration of the element of interest in the sample. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means for measuring the mass flow rate of the aerosol stream is a quartz microbalance. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including sample collection means for extracting at least the element of interest from a sample site and introducing at least the element of interest into the aerosol stream. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the sample collection means comprises a laser ablation system. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the sample collection means comprises a nebulizer. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a stepper motor for activating the precision gas metering valve. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the characteristic emissions comprise ions and the spectrometer comprises a mass spectrometer. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the characteristic emissions comprise electromagnetic radiation and the spectrometer comprises an atomic emission spectrometer. 9. An apparatus for determining the concentration of an element of interest collected at a remote sampling site, comprising: an inductively coupled plasma spectrometer for vaporizing, atomizing, and ionizing at least the element of interest to emit characteristic emissions, the emissions generating an output signal intensity proportional to the quantity of the element of interest in the sample; a laser proximate the sampling site; a first optical fiber with first and second ends, the first end coupled to the laser and the second end positioned proximate the remote sampling site for directing a laser beam from the laser onto a surface of the sampling site to abate a sample of at least the element of interest; an aerosol delivery system containing a carrier gas for delivering at least the element of interest to the inductively coupled plasma spectrometer where at least the element of interest is dissociated, atomized and excited to provide its characteristic optical emissions; a volatile calibration gas compound of the element of interest; and a precision gas metering valve for introducing a series of known quantities of a volatile calibration gas directly into the aerosol stream containing at least the element of interest, the metering valve determining the mass flow rate of the calibration gas and the spectrometer generating an output signal intensity proportional to the quantity of calibration gas and element of interest present in the aerosol so that a standard addition curve of the intensity versus the quantity of calibration gas added can be generated to determine the concentration of the element of interest in the sample. 10. A method for determining the concentration of an element of interest in a sample contained in an aerosol stream, comprising the steps of: providing an inductively coupled plasma spectrometer for vaporizing, atomizing, and ionizing at least the element of interest to emit characteristic emissions, the spectrometer generating an output signal intensity proportional to the quantity of the element of interest in the sample; providing an aerosol delivery system for delivering the aerosol stream to the spectrometer; measuring them ass flow rate of the aerosol stream; introducing a series of known quantities of a volatile calibration gas of the element of interest directly into the aerosol stream using a precision gas metering valve, the spectrometer generating an output signal intensity proportional to the quantity of calibration gas and element of interest present in the aerosol stream; determining the mass flow rate of the calibration gas; and generating a standard addition curve of the output signal intensity versus the quantity of calibration gas added to determine the concentration of the element of interest in the sample. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the characteristic emissions comprise ions and the spectrometer comprises a mass spectrometer. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the characteristic emissions comprise electromagnetic radiation and the spectrometer comprises an atomic emission spectrometer. 13. The method of claim 10 further including the step of comparing the mass flow rate of the element of interest with the mass flow rate of the aerosol stream to determine the concentration of the element of interest in the sample. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of measuring the mass flow rate of the aerosol stream comprises diverting a portion of the aerosol stream to a means for measuring mass flow rate. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of measuring the mass flow rate of the aerosol stream comprises diverting the entire aerosol stream to a means for measuring mass flow rate prior to introducing the calibration gas. 16. The method of claim 10 further including the step of: providing sample collection means for extracting at least the element of interest from a sample site; and introducing at least the element of interest into the aerosol stream. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the sample collection means comprises a laser ablation system. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the sample collection means comprises a nebulizer. 