A laser welding apparatus comprises a mount attached to a laser beam delivery system and a cylinder attached to the mount. A piston having first and second piston ends and a piston body sealingly and slidably engages with the cylinder dividing the cylinder into first and second piston chambers. The piston is slidable between an extended position and a retracted position and has a central axial bore through which a supplemental wire is fed. A wire supply provides supplemental wire to the first piston end and a delivery head attached to the second piston end delivers the supplemental wire proximate to a laser beam and a work-piece.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An apparatus comprising: a mount; a cylinder attached to the mount and having first and second cylinder end caps; a piston having first and second piston ends, the first piston end extending out of and slidably engaged with the first cylinder end and the second piston end extending out of and slidably engaged with the second cylinder end, the piston having a piston body sealingly and slidably engaged with the cylinder dividing the cylinder into first and second piston chambers, the piston slidable between an extended position and a retracted position and having a central axial bore through which a supplemental wire travels; a wire supply operatively associated with the first piston end to supply the supplemental wire to the first piston end; and a delivery head attached to the second piston end for delivery of the supplemental wire proximate to a laser beam and a work-piece. 2. The apparatus set forth in claim 1 also comprising a spring for biasing the piston in the extended position, the spring mounted in the first piston chamber. 3. The apparatus set forth in claim 1 also comprising a means for introducing pressurized air to the second piston chamber for selectively forcing the piston to a retracted position. 4. The apparatus set forth in claim 1 wherein the wirefeed head is threadably attached to the piston. 5. The apparatus set forth in claim 1 wherein the delivery head comprises a copper piece and delivery tip comprising at least one member of a set comprising ceramic and copper. 6. The apparatus set forth in claim 1 wherein the piston includes a transversal bore in the first piston chamber. 7. The apparatus set forth in claim 6 wherein a shield gas is introduced into the first piston chamber and travels through the transversal bore into the axial bore of the piston, down the axial bore of the piston and through the wirefeed head and tip to provide the shield gas proximate to the delivered wire. 8. The apparatus set forth in claim 1 also comprising a laser beam delivery robot to which the mount is attached. 9. The apparatus set forth in claim 8 also comprising a control unit for controlling the laser delivery robot and also comprising a motorized wire feeder responsive to the control unit. 10. The apparatus set forth in claim 9 also comprising a laser beam generator responsive to the control unit. 11. An apparatus for use with a laser beam delivery system comprising: a mount attached to the laser beam delivery system; a cylinder attached to the mount; a piston having first and second piston ends and a piston body sealingly and slidably engaged with the cylinder dividing the cylinder into first and second piston chambers, the piston slidable between an extended position and a retracted position and having an axial bore through which a supplemental wire is fed; a wire supply operatively associated with the first piston end to supply the supplemental wire to the first piston end, through the piston and to the second piston end; and a delivery head attached to the second piston end for delivery of the supplemental wire proximate to a laser beam and a work-piece. 12. The apparatus set forth in claim 11, also comprising: a spring mounted within the first piston chamber operatively associated with the cylinder and the piston body, biasing the piston in the extended position; means for providing a shield gas to the first piston chamber; and means for controllably providing pressurized air to the second piston chamber, so that when the pressurized air enters the second piston chamber, the piston slides into the retracted position. 13. The apparatus set forth in claim 12, wherein the piston has a transversal bore in the first piston chamber providing a flow path for the shield gas from the first piston chamber to the axial bore, wherein the axial bore and delivery head provide a flow path for the shield gas, through which the shield gas is delivered proximate to the laser beam and the work piece. 14. An apparatus comprising, in combination, a laser beam delivery device providing a laser beam to a work piece and a retractable wire delivery unit mounted to the laser beam delivery device, the retractable wire delivery unit having a first operational state in which the wire delivery unit is extended to provide a wire in a vicinity of the laser beam proximate to the work piece and having a second operational state in which the wire delivery unit is retracted, removing the wire from the vicinity of the laser beam. 15. A method for welding metal parts between which there is a gap, comprising the steps of: placing two metal parts in proximity of each other so that one of the metal parts has a facing away surface facing away from the other metal part; positioning a robot with a laser delivery head and a wirefeed head to a weld start position; starting delivery of a laser beam so that the laser beam is applied to the facing away surface; supplying supplemental wire through the wirefeed head at an intersection between the laser beam and the facing away surface; moving the robot along a weld path; stopping the supply of supplemental wire; retracting the wirefeed head; and stopping delivery of the laser beam. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the two metal parts are placed so that a gap exists between the two metal parts along at least a portion of the weld path. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the two metal parts comprise part of a stack-up, the stack-up including at least three metal parts that are welded by the laser beam. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the two metal parts comprise part of a stack-up, the stack-up including at least four metal parts that are welded by the laser beam. 