An automated order picking system assembled from known, available components and that includes a manager computer to receive orders for goods from a customer and to break the order down into requested full pallets of multiple ordered layers of goods; layers of goods ordered by the customer; compatible ordered layers of goods that can be combined into full pallets; and compatible cases of ordered goods that can be formed into layers and into full pallets of multiple layers of goods; and vertical cells for receiving, storing and delivering cases of the goods. The vertical cells comprise towers having mutually facing tower sections that receive goods delivered to feed conveyors by gantry robots having end effectors capable of handling the goods and the tower sections passing the goods back and forth as the goods are moved downwardly for placement on the discharge conveyor under the control of a programmable logic computer. The full pallets, full layers and cases of goods are conveyed to a palletizer to be organized into the requested orders.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated material handling system comprising: a case storage and delivery system including means for receiving, storing and delivering cases of goods; a full layer storage, picking and delivery system for storing and delivering full layers of cases of goods; conveyor means for receiving said cases of goods and said full layers of cases of goods from said case storage and delivery system and from said full layer storage, picking and delivery system; control means to select cases of goods to be delivered by said case storage and delivery system and layers of cases of goods to be conveyed from said full layer storage, picking and delivering system to said conveyor means; and a palletizer receiving said cases of goods and said full layers of cases of goods from said conveyor means and placing said cases and said full layers of cases on receiving pallets in selected patterns. 2. An automated material handling system as in claim 1, wherein the control means to select the cases of goods and full layers of cases of goods to be delivered includes: a manager computer receiving orders for the goods and generating commands for delivery of cases from the case storage and delivery system and generating commands for delivery of full layers of cases from the full layer storage, picking and delivery system; and a programmable logic controller receiving said commands from said manager computer and controlling means for delivering cases from the case storage and delivery system to the conveyor means, and controlling means for delivering full layers of cases from the full layer storage, picking and delivery system to the conveyor means. 3. An automated material handling system as in claim 2, wherein the case storage and delivery system is a vertically extending system and wherein the means for receiving, storing and delivering cases of goods includes: at least one cell having at least one tower with a pair of spaced apart, facing tower sections, each said tower section having pivoting shelves thereon on which cases of goods are positioned for storage and delivery in response to tilting of said shelves; feed conveyor means feeding cases of goods to the tops of the tower sections; and discharge conveyor means receiving selected cases of goods from the bottom of a tower section. 4. An automated material handling system as in claim 3, wherein the case storage and delivery system includes a gantry robot controlled by the programmable logic controller to pick up cases of goods and to deliver them to the feed conveyor means. 5. An automated material handling system as in claim 4, further including a gantry robot controlled by the programmable logic controller to pick up layers of cases of goods and to deliver them to the conveyor means. 6. An automated material handling system as in claim 5, further including: first counter means for counting cases discharged from the bottom of a tower section and for sending a signal indicative of said count to the programmable logic controller; and second counter means for counting cases carried by said feed conveyor means from the case storage and delivery system and for sending a signal indicative of said count to the programmable logic controller. 7. An automated material handling system as in claim 6, further including third counter means positioned to count cases of goods discharged from the full layer picking, storage and delivery system to the conveyor means and for sending a signal indicative of said count to the programmable logic controller. 8. An automated material handling system as in claim 7, wherein goods of different nature are assigned to different towers of the vertically extending storage and delivery system by the programmable logic controller. 9. An automated material handling system as in claim 3, wherein goods of different nature are assigned to different towers of the vertically extending system by the programmable logic controller. 10. An automated material handling system as in claim 7, further including: means controlled by the programmable logic controller for supplying modified pallets of cases of the goods to the palletizer, said means adding layers of cases of goods to and removing layers of cases of goods from pallets of cases of goods to make said modified pallets according to signals from said programmable logic controller. 11. An automated material handling system as in claim 10, further including: means directed by the programmable logic controller for supplying full pallets of cases of the goods to the palletizer. 12. An automated material handling system as in claim 2, wherein the case storage and delivery system is a vertically extending system. 13. An automated material handling system as in claim 12, wherein the case storage and delivery system includes: at least one cell having at least one tower; feed conveyor means feeding cases of goods to each said tower; and discharge conveyor means receiving selected cases of goods from the bottom of each said tower and delivering said selected cases of goods to said conveyor means. 14. An automated material handling system as in claim 13, wherein goods of different nature are assigned to different towers of the vertically extending system by a programmable logic controller. 15. An automated material handling system as in claim 13, wherein the case storage and delivery system includes a gantry robot controlled by the programmable logic controller to pick up cases of goods and to deliver them to the feed conveyor means. 16. An automated material handling system as in claim 15, further including a gantry robot controlled by the programmable logic controller to pick up layers of cases of goods and to deliver them to the conveyor means. 17. An automated material handling system as in claim 16, further including: first counter means for counting cases discharged from the bottom of a tower and for sending a signal indicative of said count to the programmable logic controller; and second counter means for counting cases carried by said feed conveyor means from the case storage and delivery system and for sending a signal indicative of said count to the programmable logic controller. 18. An automated material handling system as in claim 17, further including third counter means positioned to count cases of goods discharged from the full layer picking, storage and delivery system to the conveyor means and for sending a signal indicative of said count to the programmable logic controller. 19. An automated material handling system as in claim 18, further including: means controlled by the programmable logic controller for supplying modified pallets of cases of the goods to the palletizer, said means adding layers of cases of goods to and removing layers of cases of goods from pallets of cases of goods according to signals from said programmable logic controller to make said modified pallets. 20. An automated material handling system as in claim 19, further including: means directed by the programmable logic controller for supplying full pallets of cases of the goods to the palletizer. 21. An automated material handling system as in claim 18, wherein goods of different nature are assigned to different towers of the vertically extending storage and delivery system by the programmable logic controller. 22. An automated material handling system comprising: a case storage and delivery system for receiving, storing and delivering cases of goods, said case storage and delivery system including a tower to receive cases of goods at a top thereof, to store said cases of goods and to deliver said goods from a bottom thereof and a gantry means for picking up said cases of goods from a storage location and for transporting said cases to the top of the tower; conveyor means to receive said cases of goods discharged from said tower; control means to pick up and transport the cases of goods to be discharged from said tower to said conveyor means; a palletizer receiving said cases of goods from said conveyor means and placing said cases in full layers of cases on pallets in selected patterns; a full layer storage, picking and delivery system for storing and delivering full layers of cases of goods, said full layer storage, picking and delivery system including a gantry, storage means for pallets having layers of cases of goods thereon and conveyor means receiving said full layers of cases of goods and transporting said full layers to said palletizer to be placed on pallets in selected patterns; and wherein the control means operates said gantry to pick up and transport full layers of cases of said goods from said storage means and to deliver them to said conveyor means. 23. An automated material handling system as in claim 22, further including: a modified pallet storage, picking and delivery system for storing and delivering full pallets of cases of goods, said modified pallet storage, picking and delivery system including a gantry for adding layers of cases of goods to and removing layers of cases of goods from pallets of cases of goods to make modified pallets and conveyor means receiving said modified pallets and transporting said modified pallets to said palletizer; and wherein the control means operates said gantry to add layers of goods to or to remove layers of goods from said pallets of goods and to deliver said modified pallets to said conveyor means. 24. An automated material handling system as in claim 23, further including: means to deliver full pallets of cases of goods from a storage area to the palletizer to be combined with other goods by the palletizer under the control of a programmable logic controller to make a customer order supplied to said programmable logic controller through a manager computer. 