An apparatus and a method for embedding conductors in a structure having a signal distribution function associated therewith such as a vehicle instrument panel are disclosed. The apparatus includes an embedding tool which can be positioned in three dimensional space to embed conductors in non-planar surfaces. A method for such embedding is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for embedding conductors in a structure having a non-planar surface with an arcuate cross-section, such as a vehicle instrument panel, the method comprising the steps of: providing an apparatus having a six-degree-of-freedom conductor embedding head positionable in three dimensions, the conductor embedding head having an ultrasonic stylus at one end thereof; providing a conductor feeder; positioning the conductor embedding head at an angle of between 45 and 90 degrees to a line tangent to the non-planar substrate surface at the point at which said stylus contacts said surface; laying a length of conductor on the surface of said non-planar substrate; contacting the stylus against the conductor in the substrate surface and ultrasonically vibrating the stylus to soften the surface of the substrate; pressing a length of conductor into the softened substrate; and curing the softened substrate to embed the conductor therein. 2. An apparatus for embedding conductors into a substrate having a non-planar surface with an arcuate cross-section, comprising: a multi-positionable, six-degree-of-freedom embedding head movable in three dimensional space having an ultrasonic tool with an embedding tip at one end thereof, said embedding head being positionable such that said embedding tip is disposed at an angle of between 45 and 90 degrees to a line tangent to the surface of said non-planar substrate at a point at which said embedding tip contacts said surface; a conductor feed device operatively associated with said conductor embedding head; and a controller connected to said multi-positionable embedding head for providing positioning signals thereto. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, further including a multi-axis end effector connected to said embedding head for positioning said embedding head perpendicularly to said tangent line of a point at which said embedding tip contacts the surface of said substrate. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said embedding head is positionable at an angle of 90 degrees to said line tangent to the surface of said non-planar substrate at the point at which the embedding tip contacts said surface. 5. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said embedding tip is operative to produce ultrasonic vibrations to soften said substrate and wherein said conductor feeder is operative to place a length of conductor into said softened substrate. 6. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said multi-positionable embedding head comprises a rotatable roller having a circumferential groove therearound, said embedding head being positionable perpendicular to a line tangent to the surface of said non-planar substrate at a point at which said roller contacts said non-planar surface. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said roller is rotatably secured to a multi-positionable axle extending from an ultrasonic embedding tool. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said multi-positionable axle includes a spring for imparting a controlled force on said roller against said substrate. 9. An apparatus for embedding conductors into a substrate having a non-planar surface with an arcuate cross-section, comprising: a multi-axis, six-degree-of-freedom end effector; a multi-positionable embedding head secured to said multi-axis end effector, said embedding head being movable in three dimensional space and having an ultrasonic stylus at one end thereof, said embedding head being positionable such that said ultrasonic stylus is perpendicular to a line tangent to the surface of said non-planar substrate at a point at which said stylus contacts said surface; a conductor feed device operatively associated with said conductor embedding head; and a controller electrically connected to said multi-axes end effector for providing positioning signals to said positionable embedding head. 