A system including a specifically-shaped probe and a complementarily-shaped hole formed in a surface of a part to be picked up ensures proper alignment between an end effector which picks up the part and the part itself. The probe includes first, second, third and fourth mutually converging locating surfaces terminating at a rounded tip at a free end of the probe. The probe is preferably diamond-shaped in cross-section along its entire length and the hole, consequently, is also diamond-shaped. The hole is defined by an inner peripheral diamond-shaped surface configured to be immediately adjacent and substantially parallel to each of the locating surfaces only when the end effector is in a proper pick up position and orientation with respect to the part. Preferably, the end effector is a gripper wherein the probe is adapted to be secured between gripping jaws of the gripper. In the preferred embodiment, the part comprises dunnage.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for locating an end effector of a robot relative to a part so that the end effector can adapt to misalignments between the end effector and the part, the end effector being movable laterally, transversely and angularly to occupy a proper pick up position and orientation with respect to the part so that the end effector can pick up the part, the system comprising: an end effector; a single probe adapted to be mounted for movement with the end effector and including first, second, third, and fourth mutually converging locating surfaces terminating at a rounded tip at a free end of the probe wherein the first, second, third and fourth surfaces define a pyramid having corners between adjacent surfaces; and a diamond-shaped hole formed in a surface of the part and defined by an inner peripheral surface configured to be immediately adjacent and substantially parallel to each of the locating surfaces of the probe as a single detail to maintain part location integrity only when the end effector is in the proper pick up position and orientation wherein the system takes into account lateral, transverse and angular skews between the single probe and the part. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end effector includes a gripper having a pair of spaced gripping jaws and the part is configured to be picked up by the gripping jaws. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of the corners is blended into a radius and wherein the radii form an outer surface of the rounded tip at the free end of the probe. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the diamond-shaped hole has a major length and a minor length approximately one-half the length of the major length. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the system further comprises a plate adapted to be fixedly secured to the dunnage about the hole and having an aperture formed completely therethrough, the aperture being substantially identical in size and shape to the hole for reinforcing the part about the hole. 