A method of determining the reliability of a cytological screening test including the steps of viewing at least part of a cytological specimen, creating an image of the view, producing a digital representation of the image, ranking objects in the digital representation based on the degree to which each respective object has characteristics more likely found in a typical premalignant or malignant cell than in a typical benign cell, and displaying for review by an operator the images of at least a minimum number of the highest ranked objects such that objects of a predetermined cell type are displayed in the absence of premalignant or malignant cells, wherein the detection by the operator of the presence in the display of at least one cell of the predetermined cell type tends to indicate that the test is reliable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the reliability of cytological screening test, comprising the steps of: a) viewing at least part of a cytological specimen; b) creating an image of the view; c) producing a digital representation of the image; d) ranking individual objects in an order in the digital representation based on the degree to which each respective object has characteristics more likely found in a typical premalignant or malignant cell than in a typical benign cell; and e) displaying for review by an operator the images of at least a minimum number of the highest ranked objects such that objects of a predetermined cell type are displayed in the absence of premalignant or malignant cells; wherein the detection by the operator of the presence in the display of at least one cell of the predetermined cell type tends to indicate that the test is reliable. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of ranking includes identifying objects in the digital representation as likely to be premalignant or malignant based on a detectable feature. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said step of ranking further includes using a neural computer apparatus to further classify such identified objects as likely to be malignant or premalignant as a function of training of the neural computer apparatus. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined cell type is an endocervical cell. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of displaying includes arranging each displayed object in the order of its ranking. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said step of arranging includes arranging the objects in a matrix format. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said matrix format is an 8 by 8 matrix. 8. A method of facilitating the determination of the presence of an infection in a cytological specimen, comprising the steps of: a) viewing at least part of cytological specimen; b) creating an image of the view; c) producing a digital representation of the image; d) ranking individual objects in the digital representation in an order based on the degree to which each respective object has characteristics more likely found in a typical premalignant or malignant cell than in a typical benign cell; and e) displaying for review by an operator the images of at least a minimum number of the highest ranked objects such that objects representative of cells having indications of infection are displayed in the absence of premalignant or malignant cells. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of ranking includes identifying objects in the digital representation as likely to be premalignant or malignant based on a detectable feature. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of ranking further includes using a neural computer apparatus to further classify the identified objects as likely to be malignant or premalignant as a function of training of the neural computer apparatus. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of displaying includes arranging each displayed object in the order of its ranking. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of arranging includes arranging the objects in a matrix format. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said matrix format is an 8 by 8 matrix. 