A refueling machine having relative positioning capability for refueling a nuclear reactor. The refueling machine includes a pair of articulated arms mounted on a refueling bridge. Each arm supports a respective telescoping mast. Each telescoping mast is designed to flex laterally in response to application of a lateral thrust on the end of the mast. A pendant mounted on the end of the mast carries an air-actuated grapple, television cameras, ultrasonic transducers and waterjet thrusters. The ultrasonic transducers are used to detect the gross position of the grapple relative to the bail of a nuclear fuel assembly in the fuel core. The television cameras acquire an image of the bail which is compared to a pre-stored image in computer memory. The pendant can be rotated until the television image and the pre-stored image match within a predetermined tolerance. Similarly, the waterjet thrusters can be used to apply lateral thrust to the end of the flexible mast to place the grapple in a fine position relative to the bail as a function of the discrepancy between the television and pre-stored images.
Claims We claim: 1. A refueling machine for refueling a nuclear reactor, comprising a refueling bridge, a first articulated arm having first and second ends, a first support structure mounted on said refueling bridge and connected to said first end of said first articulated arm, a first telescoping mast suspended from said second end of said first articulated arm, a pendant mounted on a bottom end of said telescoping mast, and an end effector coupled to said pendant, wherein said articulated arm is movable relative to said refueling bridge in a horizontal plane only. 2. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, wherein said first articulated arm comprises first and second links, said first link of said first articulated arm being pivotable at a first joint with said first support structure, said second link of said first articulated arm being pivotable at a second joint with said first link of said first articulated arm and said first telescoping mast being suspended from said second link of said first articulated arm, said first and second joints each having a vertical axis of rotation. 3. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, further comprising a second articulated arm having first and second ends, a second support structure mounted on said refueling bridge and connected to said first end of said second articulated arm, and a second telescoping mast suspended from said second end of said second articulated arm. 4. The refueling machine as defined in claim 2, wherein said first telescoping mast is pivotable relative to said second link of said first articulated arm about a horizontal axis. 5. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, wherein said end effector comprises an air-actuated grapple. 6. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, wherein said telescoping mast is rotatable relative to said second link of said first articulated arm about a longitudinal axis. 7. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, wherein said pendant is rotatable relative to said telescoping mast about a longitudinal axis. 8. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, further comprising an ultrasonic transducer mounted on said pendant. 9. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, further comprising a camera mounted on said pendant and object recognition means for comparing an image from said camera with a pre-stored image. 10. The refueling machine as defined in claim 1, further comprising a waterjet thruster mounted on said pendant and valve control means for controlling the supply of high-pressure water to said waterjet thruster, wherein said telescoping mast is designed to flex laterally in response to thrust applied by said waterjet thruster. 11. A refueling machine for refueling a nuclear reactor, comprising a refueling bridge, a first beam having first and second ends, a support structure mounted on said refueling bridge and having a first joint by which said first end of said first beam is coupled to said support structure, a telescoping mast suspended from said second end of said first beam, a pendant mounted on a bottom end of said telescoping mast, and an end effector coupled to said pendant, wherein said first beam is rotatable about an axis of rotation of said first joint and has no other degrees of freedom relative to said first joint. 12. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, wherein said support structure comprises: cantilever beam having first and second ends, said first end of said cantilever beam being mounted on said refueling bridge; and a second beam having a first end coupled to said second end of said cantilever beam by a second joint and a second end coupled to said first end of said first beam by said first joint, wherein said second beam is rotatable about an axis of rotation of said second joint and has no other degrees of freedom relative to said second joint. 13. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, wherein said telescoping mast is pivotable relative to said second end of said first beam about a horizontal axis. 14. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, wherein said telescoping mast is rotatable relative to said second end of said first beam about a longitudinal axis. 15. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, wherein said pendant is rotatable relative to said telescoping mast about a longitudinal axis. 16. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, further comprising an ultrasonic transducer mounted on said pendant. 17. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, further comprising a camera mounted on said pendant and object recognition means for comparing an image from said camera with a pre-stored image. 18. The refueling machine as defined in claim 11, further comprising a waterjet thruster mounted on said pendant and valve control means for controlling the supply of high-pressure water to said waterjet thruster, wherein said telescoping mast is designed to flex laterally in response to thrust applied by said waterjet thruster. 