A flexible VLSI film containing shape memory alloy (SMA) actuator elements and associated control and driver circuitry is wrapped around any bendable element such as a flexible, hollow tube, catheter tube or the like. The SMA actuator elements are thus spatially distributed around the circumference of the bendable element. The SMA actuator elements are selectively resistively heated with an electric current through associated decode and driver circuitry, thereby causing a portion of the film to contract. The radical distribution of the SMA actuator elements across the surface of the VLSI actuator film is such that when properly activated, a device sheathed with the VLSI film is capable of executing highly dexterous maneuvers in three-dimensional space, which was not heretofore possible. The actuator elements are self-guided in that control circuitry, decode circuitry and associated microprocessors, including position mapping means are fabricated in VLSI integrally with the SMA actuator elements. Alternatively, a microprocessor controller may be located at a remote location while communicating with associated driver circuitry on the actuator film.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shape memory actuator film comprising: a flexible thin film base; a plurality of shape memory actuator means, provided on said, base adapted to impart movement to an adjacent portion of said base by deflection when resistively heated by an electric current of a predetermined value; switch means connected with a corresponding one of said shape memory actuator means, for applying said electric current to selectively activate one or more shape memory actuator means in response to control signals; control circuit means, for producing said control signals for selectively activating said switch means to produce desired three-dimensional movement of said base; wherein said base comprises a flexible thin film sheet comprising control and address decode circuitry integrated in VGSI over a portion of said sheet and a plurality of shape memory actuator means, operatively connected with said control and address decode circuitry, spatially distributed over a remaining portion of said flexible sheet for providing substantially continuous multi-node manipulation in three dimensions. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said switch means comprise a plurality of CMOS transistors, each having an input lead connected to a voltage source, an enable lead connected with said control circuit means and an output lead for applying a predetermined phase activation current to a corresponding shape memory alloy actuator means. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said base further comprises a series of corrugations, disposed for accommodating movement of said shape memory actuator means while limiting strain to a predetermined amount. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 where said control circuit means comprises an address decode circuit responsive to a microprocessor means for selectively activating said switch means to effect desired movement of said substrate. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said control means further comprises position mapping means for storing an activation sequence record comprising locus of angular positions of said shape memory alloy actuator means. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5 further comprising a plurality of sensor means disposed on said base in proximity to said actuator means for sensing the deflection of an associated segment of said base and for providing output signals representative thereof to said microprocessor. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said microprocessor further comprises adaptive feedback means, responsive to said output signals from said sensor means for centering said substrate along a desired path of travel. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said microprocessor further comprises means for producing output signals to said switch means for selectively activating said shape memory actuator means in a reverse sequence to enable said substrate to reverse its direction and corresponding configuration for any point along said path of travel. 9. A spatially distributed shape memory actuator film comprising: a flexible sheet a plurality of shape memory actuators provided at regularly spaced intervals over said sheet; a plurality of activation means, each connected to a corresponding one of said shape memory actuators, and responsive to control signals, for applying an electric current to resistively heat a selected shape memory actuator to its activation threshold for inducing deflection of said actuator; control means for producing said control signals to selected activation means such that when said sheet is configured to form a three-dimensional surface, such as a cylinder, said control signals produce coordinated movement of said sheet along a desired path of travel. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said plurality of shape memory alloy actuators further comprise: an interleaved array of shape memory actuator elements deposited over a portion of said substrate such that when said substrate is configured as a cylinder, said actuator elements are spatially distributed over the surface of said cylinder, for imparting unrestricted three-dimensional movement thereto upon activation. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said base further comprises a plurality of corrugation means extending substantially transversely to the axis of the cylinder for providing substantially continuous multijointed manipulation in three dimensions and limiting strain of said substrate to a predetermined amount. 12. A method for moving a probe with coordinated movement in three dimensions comprising: providing a plurality of shape memory actuators on a flexible sheet; fabricating in VLSI on said sheet a corresponding plurality of driver means for applying an electric current for resistively heating a corresponding shape memory actuator to an activation threshold; configuring said sheet in a three-dimensional configuration such as a cylinder, such that said shape memory actuators are positioned at intervals over the surface; providing a microprocessor having an electrical connection with said driver means for selectively enabling said driver means to activate selected shape memory actuators to produce desired movement along a path of travel. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein said step of providing a plurality of shape memory actuators further includes the step of etching a series of corrugations in said sheet, said corrugations substantially transversely to a desired direction of motion of said shape memory actuators, to accommodate movement of said shape memory actuators. 14. A method according to claim 12 wherein said step of providing a plurality of shape memory actuators further includes the step of providing said shape memory actuators in an interleaved array on a flexible polyamide sheet and wrapping said sheet about a centrally disposed axis such that said shape memory actuators are spatially distributed around the circumference of said flexible sheet to provide coordinated motion without restriction in three-dimensional space. 15. A method for using a shape memory material for providing controlled movement in three dimensions comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of shape memory elements over a portion of a flexible sheet suitable for VLSI formation; providing a plurality of switch means, each connecting to a corresponding one of said shape memory elements for applying an electric current to resistively heat one or more selected shape memory elements to an activation threshold to thereby impart movement to said one or more selected shape memory elements; providing a control circuit means on a remaining portion of said sheet for connection to said switch means for selectively enabling said switch means to produce coordinated three-dimensional movement of said sheet in response to control signals. 16. A method according to claim 15 further comprising the steps of: providing a series of corrugations in said sheet disposed substantially transversely to a direction of motion produced by said shape memory elements; configuring said flexible sheet to form a three-dimensional surface with said corrugations disposed about the surface thereof and adapted to allow unrestricted motion in three-dimensional space upon coordinated activation of said shape memory alloy elements while limiting strain to a predetermined amount. 17. A method according to 15 wherein said step of providing a plurality of shape memory elements includes the step of providing said shape memory elements in an interleaved array such that when said sheet is configured as a three-dimensional surface such as a flexible tube, said shape memory elements are spatially distributed over the surface of said sheet for providing substantially continuous, coordinated movement of said sheet in three dimensions. 18. A method according to claim 16 wherein said step of configuring said sheet further comprises the step of wrapping said sheet around a hollow catheter tube to form a steerable catheter with coordinated motion in three dimensions. 19. A method according to claim 16 wherein said step of configuring said sheet further comprises the steps of: fitting an active surgical element on an end portion of said sheet; and selectively activating said shape memory elements for controllably moving said active surgical element to perform a desired surgical procedure. 20. A method according to claim 16 wherein said step of configuring said sheet further comprises the step of wrapping said sheet around a bendable element to impart desired motion in three-dimensional space to said bendable element upon activation of said shape memory elements. 21. A method of making a spatially distributed shape memory alloy actuator film for providing unrestricted movement in three-dimensional space comprising the steps of: providing a semiconductor substrate; forming a plurality of corrugations across said substrate; depositing an insulating layer over said substrate; sputtering a shape memory material such as TiNi or the like over said insulating layer; annealing said shape memory material; etching said annealed shape memory material to form discrete shape memory actuators; masking said shape memory actuator elements to form windows around each of said memory shape actuators; depositing a layer of a flexible, insulating material such as polyimide or the like over said plurality of shape memory alloy actuators; fabricating on said polyimide layer a plurality of VLSI switch means and associated address decode circuitry for connection to a corresponding one of each of said plurality of shape memory alloy actuators; releasing said polyimide layer from said substrate such that said shape memory alloy actuators, associated switch means and address decode and circuitry are integrated in VLSI on a single, flexible sheet; providing a microprocessor operatively connected with said address decode circuitry and switch means for selectively activating said shape memory alloy actuators to impart desired movement. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein said step of depositing a plurality of shape memory alloy actuators further comprises the steps of: depositing through VLSI techniques a plurality of sensor means in proximity with each shape memory alloy element for measuring the joint angle of activated shape memory alloy actuators to provide control feedback for moving the shape memory alloy actuators in a desired manner. 23. A spatially distributed shape memory alloy actuator film for providing unrestricted movement in three-dimensional space comprising: a flexible thin film base; a plurality of shape memory actuator means provided on said base, each for producing deflection upon being resistively heated to a phase activation threshold by application of an electric current; a plurality of switch means provided on said base, each switch means having a connection with a corresponding one of said actuator means for resistively heating a corresponding actuator means upon receipt of a control signal; control means comprising address decode circuitry provided on said base for producing control signals to selected switch means, said control signals being representative of a desired deflection of a selected actuator means such that coordinated activation of selected actuator means imparts desired three-dimensional movement. 24. An apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said control means comprises adaptive feedback means further comprising a plurality of sensor means, each sensor means disposed for measuring angular position of a corresponding actuator means and connected in a feedback loop with said control means. 25. An apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said adaptive feedback means further comprises a plurality of capacitive linear strain gauge means, each disposed in close proximity to a corresponding actuator means for measuring a joint angle of a selected actuator means and for producing a measurable change in capacitance which is directly proportional to displacement of said actuator means. 26. An apparatus according claim 25 wherein said capacitive linear strain gauge means comprises two overlapping composite plates, each comprising a layer of sputtered conductive material over an insulating base, wherein the bases of said composite layers are disposed in adjacent sliding relation with respect to one another such that the movement of a corresponding actuator causes a linear displacement of said overlapping plates and produces a change in capacitance which is directly proportional to the displacement of said actuator means. 27. A shape memory actuator film comprising: a flexible base; a plurality of shape memory actuator means, deposited on said base, adapted to impart movement to an adjacent portion of said base by deflection when resistively heated by an electric current of a predetermined value; switch means connected with a corresponding one of said shape memory actuator means, for applying said electric current to selectively activate one or more shape memory actuator means in response to control signals; control circuit means for producing said control signals for selectively activating said switch means to produce desired three-dimensional movement of said base; and wherein said base comprises a flexible, thin film sheet comprising control and address decode circuitry integrated in VLSI over a portion of said sheet and a plurality of shape memory actuator means, operatively connected with said control and address decode circuitry, spatially distributed over a remaining portion of said flexible sheet for providing substantially continuous multinode manipulation in three dimensions. 28. A method for moving a probe with coordinated movement in three dimensions comprising: providing a plurality of shape memory actuators on a flexible sheet; fabricating in VLSI on said sheet a corresponding plurality of driver means for applying an electric current for resistively heating a corresponding shape memory actuator to an activation threshold; configuring said sheet in a three-dimensional configuration such as a cylinder, such that said shape memory actuators are positioned at intervals over the surface; providing a microprocessor having an electrical connection with said driver means for selectively enabling said driver means to activate selected shape memory actuators to produce desired movement along a path of travel; and providing a series of corrugations in said sheet, said corrugations extending substantially transversely to a desired direction of motion of said shape memory actuators to accommodate movement of said shape memory actuators. 29. A method for moving a probe with coordinated movement in three dimensions comprising: providing a plurality of shape memory actuators on a flexible sheet; fabricating in VLSI on said sheet a corresponding plurality of driver means for applying an electric current for resistively heating a corresponding shape memory actuator to an activation threshold; configuring said sheet in a three-dimensional configuration such as a cylinder, such that said shape memory actuators are positioned at intervals over the surface; providing a microprocessor having an electrical connection with said driver means for selectively enabling said driver means to activate selected shape memory actuators to produce desired movement along a path of travel; providing a series of corrugations in said sheet, said corrugations extending substantially transversely to a desired direction of motion of said shape memory actuators to accommodate movement of said shape memory actuators; and wherein said step of providing a plurality of shape memory actuators further includes the step of providing said shape memory actuators in an interleaved array on a flexible polyamide sheet and wrapping said sheet about a centrally disposed axis such that said shape memory actuators are spatially distributed around the circumference of said sheet to provide coordinated motion without restriction in three-dimensional space. 30. A method for using a shape memory material for providing controlled movement in three dimensions comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of shape memory elements over a portion of a flexible sheet suitable for VLSI formation; providing a plurality of switch means, each connecting to a corresponding one of said shape memory elements for applying an electric current to resistively heat one or more said shape memory elements to an activation threshold to thereby impart movement to said one or more selected shape memory elements; providing a control circuit means on a remaining portion of said sheet for connection to said switch means for selectively enabling said switch means to produce coordinated three-dimensional movement of said sheet in response to control signals; providing a series of corrugations in said sheet disposed substantially transversely to a direction of motion produced by shape memory elements; configuring said flexible sheet to form a three-dimensional surface with said corrugations disposed about the surface thereof and adapted to allow unrestricted motion in three-dimensional space upon coordinated activation of said shape memory alloy elements while limiting strain to a predetermined amount; and wherein said step of providing a plurality of shape memory elements includes the step of providing a plurality of shape memory elements in an interleaved array such that when said sheet is configured as a three-dimensional surface such as a flexible tube, said shape memory elements are spatially distributed over the surface of said sheet for providing substantially continuous, coordinated movement of said sheet in three dimensions. 31. A method according to claim 30 wherein said step of configuring said sheet further comprises the step of wrapping said sheet around a hollow catheter tube to form a steerable catheter with coordinated motion in three dimensions. 32. A method according to claim 30 wherein the step of configuring the sheet further comprises the steps of: fitting an active surgical element on an end portion of said sheet; and selectively activating said shape memory elements for controllably moving said active surgical element to perform a desired surgical procedure. 33. A method according to claim 30 wherein said of configuring said sheet further comprises the step of wrapping said sheet around a bendable element to impart desired motion in three-dimensional space to said bendable element upon activation of said shape memory elements. 34. A spatially distributed shape memory alloy actuator film for providing unrestricted movement in three-dimensional space comprising: a flexible thin film base; a plurality of shape memory actuator means provided on said base, each for producing deflection upon being resistively heated to a phase activation threshold by application of an electric current; a plurality of switch means provided on said base, each switch means having a connection with a corresponding one of said actuator means for resistively heating a corresponding actuator means upon receipt of a control signal; control means comprising address decode circuitry provided on said base for producing said control signals to selected switch means, said control signals being representative of a desired deflection of a selected actuator means such that coordinated activation of selected actuator means imparts desired three-dimensional movement; and wherein said control means further comprises adaptive feedback means comprising a plurality of sensor means, each sensor means disposed for measuring angular position of a actuator means and connected in a feedback loop with said control means. 35. An apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said adaptive feedback means further comprises a plurality of capacitative linear strain gauge means, each disposed in close proximity to a corresponding actuator means for measuring a joint angle of a selected actuator means and for producing a measurable change in capacitance which is directly proportional to displacement of said actuator means. 36. An apparatus according to claim 35 wherein said capacitive linear strain gauge means comprises two overlapping composite plates, each comprising a layer of sputtered conductive material over an insulating base, wherein the basis of said composite layers are disposed in adjacent sliding relation with respect to one another such that the movement of a corresponding actuator causes a linear displacement of said overlapping plates and produces a change in capacitance which is directly proportional to the displacement of said actuator means. 