An interactive robotic therapist interacts with a patient to shape the motor skills of the patient by guiding the patient's limb through a series of desired exercises with a robotic arm. The patient's limb is brought through a full range of motion to rehabilitate multiple muscle groups. A drive system coupled to the robotic arm is controlled by a controller which provides the commands to direct the robotic arm through the series of desired exercises.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive robotic therapist system comprising at least one interactive robotic therapist including: a robotic moveable member for interacting with a patient to shape the patient's motor skills, the moveable member including an end-effector with a limb coupler for securing a patient's limb to the moveable member at the end-effector, the moveable member being capable of guiding the patient's limb along a desired path through a series of desired exercises; a drive system coupled to the moveable member for driving the moveable member, the drive system being configured such that force exerted by the patient's limb on the moveable member is capable of altering the desired path of the moveable member while the moveable member is guiding the patient's limb through the exercises without changing the series of the desired exercises wherein the patient can be safely connected with the moveable member since the patient can temporarily alter the desired path of the moveable member; and a controller coupled to the drive system for providing the drive system with commands to direct the moveable member through the series of desired exercises. 2. The robotic therapist of claim 1 in which the moveable member is a robotic arm having a series of moveable joints. 3. The robotic therapist of claim 1 in which the controller has programming means for programming the series of exercises are. 4. The robotic therapist of claim 2 in which the drive system comprises at least one drive motor coupled to at least one joint in the robotic arm. 5. The robotic therapist of claim 1 in which the controller has memory means for storing the desired series of exercises. 6. The robotic therapist of claim 2 in which the robotic arm has more than one degree of freedom. 7. The robotic therapist of claim 1 in which the robotic therapist is a first robotic therapist and further comprising a second robotic therapist for controlling the movements of the first robotic therapist through command signals communicated over a communication line. 8. The robotic therapist of claim 1 further comprising educational video-games displayed on a monitor and playable by the patient through manipulation of the moveable member. 9. The robotic therapist of claim 1 in which the controller includes means for measuring and quantifying motor skill performance of the patient. 10. The robotic therapist of claim 1 in which only the end-effector has means for securing the patient's limb. 11. A method of shaping a patient's motor skills comprising the steps of providing an interactive robotic therapist system comprising at least one interactive robotic therapist including a robotic moveable member, a drive system coupled to the moveable member and a controller coupled to the drive system; guiding a patient's limb along a desired path through a series of exercises with the moveable member secured to the patient's limb, the moveable member being driven by the drive system coupled to the moveable member; controlling the drive system with a controller, a controller providing commands to direct the moveable member through the desired series of exercises; and altering the desired path of moveable member while the moveable member is guiding the patient's limb through the exercises by exerting force on the moveable member with the patient's limb without changing the series of the desired exercises wherein the patient can be safely connected with the moveable member since the patient can temporarily alter the desired path of the moveable member. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: teaching a series of exercises to the interactive therapy apparatus by guiding the moveable member through a series of motions; and storing the guided series of motions in memory in the controller. 13. The method of claim 11 in which the series of exercises are predetermined. 14. The method of claim 11 in which the patient's limb is an arm. 15. The method of claim 13 in which the patient's arm is guided by the moveable member through a full range of motion. 16. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of providing educational video games displayed on a monitor and playable by the patient through manipulation of the moveable member. 17. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of measuring and quantifying motor skill performance of the patient with the controller. 18. The method of claim 11 in which the patient's motor skills are shaped with a first robotic therapist, the method further comprising the step of controlling the movements of the first robotic therapist with a second robotic therapist through command signals communicated over a communication line. 19. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of providing the moveable member with more than one degree of freedom. 20. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of coupling at least one drive motor to at least one joint in the moveable member to form the drive system. 