An apparatus for testing an unencapsulated, diced semiconductor device comprises a test head. The test head comprises a carousel table having a chamfered portion and a chamfered pedestal. While testing is pending the pedestal rests against the chamfered portion of the carousel table, and the pedestal receives a semiconductor device to be tested. The carousel table rotates 90.degree. to position the semiconductor device under the test head. The pedestal is lifted, and the chamfered nature of the pedestal and the carousel table allow for adjustments to the pedestal in the X-, Y-, and theta-directions to align the die with a probe responsive to signals from a camera positioned above the probe. Once the die is aligned, the pedestal continues to rise until contact is made between bond pads on the die and the probe, and testing is performed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for testing an unencapsulated semiconductor device, said apparatus having a test head, said test head comprising: a) a carousel table having a top and a bottom; b) a carousel table chamfered portion; c) a chamfered pedestal which contacts said chamfered portion of said carousel table, said pedestal having a bottom portion extending below said carousel table bottom, said pedestal receiving the semiconductor device; d) a chuck for receiving said bottom portion of said pedestal, said chuck being moveable in X, Y, Z and theta (rotational) directions; e) a probe positioned above said pedestal for the passage of an electric signal to the semiconductor device; f) a camera for detecting at least one of X, Y, and Theta positions of said probe relative to a position of the semiconductor device, wherein said chuck, in operation, receives said bottom portion of said pedestal and urges said pedestal from said carousel table toward said probe, said chuck capable of movement in said X and Y directions responsive to a signal from said camera to align the semiconductor device with said probe, said probe making contact with the semiconductor device on said pedestal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pedestal and said chuck have holes therethrough such that as said chuck receives said bottom portion of said pedestal a vacuum can be imparted thorough said holes in said chuck and said pedestal to the semiconductor device to hold the semiconductor device in semirigid contact with said pedestal. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said chuck is mounted to an X-Y-Z-theta table. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said chuck is heated. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said chuck is magnetized. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said chamfered portion of said carousel table is provided by an insert. 7. An apparatus for transporting and testing an unencapsulated semiconductor device, said apparatus comprising: a) means for staging a wafer of semiconductor devices; b) a test head, said test head comprising: i) a carousel table having a top and a bottom; ii) a carousel table chamfered portion; iii) a pedestal which contacts said chamfered portion of said carousel table, said pedestal having a bottom portion extending below said carousel table bottom, said pedestal receiving the semiconductor device; iv) a chuck for receiving said bottom portion of said pedestal, said chuck being moveable in X, Y, Z, and them directions; v) a probe positioned above said pedestal for the passage of an electric signal to the semiconductor device; iv) a camera for detecting a position of said probe relative to a position of the semiconductor device, wherein said chuck, in operation, receives said bottom portion of said pedestal and urges said pedestal from said carousel table toward said probe, said chuck moving in said X and Y directions responsive to a signal from said camera to align the semiconductor device with said probe, said probe making contact with the semiconductor device on said pedestal; c) a sort carousel for receiving the semiconductor device after testing; d) means for transporting one semiconductor device from a staged wafer to said pedestal and from said pedestal to said sort carousel; e) a precisor for coarsely positioning the semiconductor device on said pedestal; and f) means for moving said pedestal to said test head. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said means for staging a wafer of semiconductor devices is a wafer boat. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said means for transporting one semiconductor device from a staged wafer to said pedestal and from said pedestal to said sort carousel includes a robot. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said carousel table rotates to supply said means for moving said pedestal to said test head. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said pedestal and said chuck have holes therethrough such that as said chuck receives said bottom portion of said pedestal a vacuum can be imparted through said holes in said chuck and said pedestal to the semiconductor device to hold the semiconductor device in semirigid contact with said pedestal. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said chuck is mounted to an X-Y-Z-theta table. 13. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said chuck is heated. 14. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said chuck is magnetized. 15. An apparatus for testing a semiconductor device comprising: a) staging for a plurality of semiconductor devices; b) a test head comprising: i) a table having a top and a bottom; ii) a table chamfered portion; iii) a pedestal which contacts said chamfered portion of said table, said pedestal having a bottom portion extending below said table bottom; iv) a chuck for receiving said bottom portion of said pedestal, said chuck being moveable in X, Y, Z, and theta directions; v) a conductive probe positioned above said pedestal; iv) a detector for detecting at least one of X, Y, and Theta positions of said probe relative to a position of the semiconductor device, wherein said chuck, in operation, moves in said X and Y directions responsive to a signal from said detector to align the semiconductor device with said probe; c) a sorter for receiving the semiconductor device after testing; d) a transporter for transporting one semiconductor device from a staged wafer to said pedestal and from said pedestal to said sorter. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said staging is a wafer boat. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said transporter includes a robot. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said table rotates to supply said transporter for moving said pedestal to said test head. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said pedestal and said chuck have holes therethrough such that as said chuck receives said bottom portion of said pedestal a vacuum can be imparted through said holes in said chuck and said pedestal to the semiconductor device to hold the semiconductor device in contact with said pedestal. 20. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said chuck is mounted to an X-Y-Z-theta table and is heated and magnetized. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least two pedestals which contact said carousel table. 22. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising at least two pedestals which contact said carousel table. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising at least two pedestals which contact said carousel table. 