An automated pavement repair vehicle includes a vehicle and its various computer-controlled subsystems. The various subsystems, including a vacuum system, heating system and spray patch system, for completing pavement repair, are located on the frame and rear of the truck. A robotic cell at the rear of the truck includes an assembly of retractable doors. The doors are lowered around the pothole to allow control of ambient conditions during the pavement repair procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spray patch application system for repairing pavement defects, comprising: a source of aggregate addition; a source of asphalt emulsion addition; an application conduit, said application conduit providing mixing and transport of said aggregate addition and said emulsion addition to a pavement defect; said application conduit being an extended tube of substantially cylindrical shape ending in a nozzle portion, said emulsion being added to said aggregate addition in said application conduit, said aggregate being drawn into and transported through said application conduit by air passing through said application conduit; a moveable control arm system, said control arm system having an application control arm positioned for horizontal and vertical movement, said application conduit forming a portion of said application control arm; a regulation mechanism, said regulation mechanism providing a control of the rate of flow through said application conduit, said flow rate through said application conduit being controlled to have particles of said aggregate exceed a speed of 90 miles per hour, said regulation mechanism providing a control of the mixture of said aggregate addition and said asphalt emulsion addition. 2. The spray patch application system of claim 1 wherein said mixture is controlled to provide an amount of said aggregate addition of greater than 90% of said mixture. 3. The spray patch application system of claim 1 wherein said control arm system includes a control arm having a telescoping portion and a vertical extending portion, said vertical extending portion being downwardly extendible from a vehicle platform. 4. The spray patch application system of claim 1 wherein said application system includes a vacuum system, said vacuum system including a vacuum source, a storage container, a vacuum conduit, and a hose portion, said vacuum conduit connecting said hose portion to said storage container to provide a passageway for materials from said hose portion to said storage container, said hose portion and said vacuum conduit forming a portion of a vacuum control arm system. 5. The spray patch application system of claim 4 wherein said storage container includes a filtration system. 6. The spray patch application system of claim 4 wherein said vacuum control arm and said application arm are connected to a single moveable arm unit. 7. The spray patch application system of claim 6 wherein said single moveable arm unit has extendible and retractable portions and is positioned for horizontal and vertical movement. 8. The spray patch application system of claim 1 wherein said application system includes a heating system, said heating system including a heating lance, said heating lance forming a portion of said control arm system. 9. The spray patch application system of claim 1 wherein said application system is transported on a vehicle frame, said vehicle frame including a front cab portion, and a rear portion, said vehicle frame including ground contacting wheeled members and capable of movement at highway speeds. 10. The spray patch application system of claim 9 wherein said application system is mounted on said rear portion of said vehicle frame. 11. A spray patch application system for repairing pavement defects, comprising: a source of aggregate addition; a source of asphalt emulsion addition; an application conduit, said application conduit providing mixing and transport of said aggregate addition and said emulsion addition to a pavement defect; a moveable control arm system, said control arm system having an application control arm positioned for horizontal and vertical movement, said application conduit forming a portion of said application control arm; a regulation mechanism, said regulation mechanism providing a control of the rate of flow through said application conduit, said regulation mechanism providing a control of the mixture of said aggregate addition and said asphalt emulsion addition; said application system being transported on a vehicle frame, said vehicle frame including a front cab portion, and a rear portion, said vehicle frame including ground contacting wheeled members and capable of movement at highway speeds; said application system being mounted on said rear portion of said vehicle frame; said vehicle rear portion including a retractable door assembly positioned to include at least portions of a pavement defect. 12. A method of repairing a pavement defect, comprising: locating the pavement defect; vacuuming the internal portion of the defect to remove materials; heating the defect area with a hot air lance; mixing aggregate and asphalt emulsion in an application conduit prior to addition of said aggregate and said emulsion to said pavement defect; said application conduit being an extended tube of substantially cylindrical shape ending in a nozzle portion, said aggregate being drawn into and transported through said application conduit by air passing through said application conduit; regulating said mixing and said transport of said aggregate and said asphalt emulsion by a regulation mechanism, said regulation mechanism providing a control of the rate of flow through said application conduit, said flow rate through said application conduit being controlled to have particles of said aggregate exceed a speed of 90 miles per hour, said regulation mechanism providing a control of the mixture of said aggregate addition and said asphalt emulsion addition; and, filling said pavement defect with said mixture of said aggregate and said emulsion. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said mixing step is controlled to provide an amount of said aggregate of greater than 90% of said mixture. 