An apparatus having a highly autonomously, self-moving system which reacts flexibly to impediments in the environment. It must be specifically noted in this context that such apparatus were known not used in shafts or channels and that the nature of the motion on the basis of bracing legs and motions of further legs represents a special advantage over apparatus that were known standards. Particular economic success could be achieved by marketing this apparatus in nuclear power fields, conduit technology or medical applications.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for locomotion in an enclosed space defined by at least a first surface and a second surface wherein the first surface is substantially parallel to the second surface defining an interior of the enclosed space, said apparatus comprising: a base member having at least three legs, each with at least two degrees of articulation, distributively attached over the circumference of said base member; at least one leg control means controlling leg motion sequence of each leg, said each leg being movable relative to said surfaces of said enclosed space and capable of contacting said first surface and said second surface simultaneously; and crawler control means for controlling the locomotion and coordination of said leg control means in alternation by repeatedly initiating at least two of said legs to brace themselves against at least one said surface of said enclosed space to support said base member and by placing at least one other leg in motion to respectively drive different leg controls for bracing and moving the other leg to provide said locomotion of said base member. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, said apparatus having at least one sensor means for controlling the locomotion. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said at least one sensor means is connected to said central control means for providing sensor information to said control means to control at least one of a rated position or a gait. 4. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said at least one sensor means is connected to said leg control means for providing sensor information to said leg control means for triggering at least one of a collision handling control or a step phase control. 5. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means comprises force sensors for monitoring said bracing. 6. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means comprises moment sensors for registering the motion moments of at least one leg. 7. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said sensor means comprises angle transmitters for sensing and transmitting the position of at least one leg with reference to said base member. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1 for providing locomotion in pipes or channels. 9. Apparatus according to claim 1, for providing vertical locomotion in pipes or channels. 10. A method of providing locomotion of a crawler robot having at least three legs, each with at least two degrees of articulation distributively attached over the circumference of the crawler robot in an enclosed space defined by at least a first surface and a second surface, wherein the first surface is substantially parallel to the second surface to define an interior of the enclosed space, the method comprising the steps of: moving at least two of said legs to contact said first surface and said second surface simultaneously to support said crawler robot within the interior of the enclosed space; placing at least one other leg in motion while said at least two legs remain braced against said first surface and said second surface; and controlling the locomotion of the crawler robot by alternatively repeating said moving and placing steps to provide locomotion of the crawler robot. 11. An apparatus for locomotion in an enclosed space defined by at least a first surface and a second surface wherein the first surface is substantially parallel to the second surface defining an interior of the enclosed space, said apparatus comprising: a base member having at least three legs, each with at least two degrees of articulation, distributively attached over the circumference of said base member; a sensor means connected to each leg for sensing locomotion parameters and providing signals indicative of said parameters; a crawler control means constructed and arranged to receive said signals from said sensor means; a leg force control means, constructed and arranged to receive said signals from said sensor means, for selectively setting a force on at least one selected leg of said at least three legs; a leg motion control means connected to each of said at least three legs for selectively driving each of said at least three legs; a leg control means, constructed and arranged to receive said signal from said sensor means, for coordinating leg motion of said at least three legs by providing control signals to said leg motion control means; wherein said crawler control means coordinates said leg control means in alternation by repeatedly initiating at least two of said legs to brace themselves against at least one said surface of said enclosed space to support said base member and by placing at least one other leg in motion to respectively drive different leg controls for bracing and moving the other leg to provide said locomotion of said base member. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a manual control means connected to the crawler control means and the leg control means for permitting manual control of said apparatus. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: means for controlling a step execution of at least one of said at least three legs incorporated into said leg control means; and a force/speed control means for controlling a rated force and rated speed of at least one of said at least three legs by using said control signals from said leg control means. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said leg control means further comprises: a standing leg control means; and a step control means, wherein said standing leg control means and said step control means are activated in alternation by said crawler control. 