A telecommunication system is arranged between a trusted automated interactive system and a non-secure agent. The trusted automated interactive portion is operable for bidirectional communications with a caller. The agent portion is arranged to be bridged onto a communication connection between the caller (or network chat user) and the trusted interactive system under certain conditions. Sensitive data transmitted between the system and a calling user may be blocked from being communicated to the agent even while the agent is bridged onto the connection. In one embodiment, information (such as a verification of authenticity of the caller) pertaining to the sensitive data (but not the sensitive data itself) is communicated to the agent.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A communication system comprising: a. a trusted user interactive portion, said interactive portion operable for bidirectional communications with a user; b. an agent portion arranged such that an agent can be in bidirectional communications with said user; and c. means for establishing a communication connection, for a period of time, between said trusted user interactive portion and said user while said user is in bidirectional communication with said agent; and d. means for preventing selected portions of a communication from said user to said trusted user interactive portion from also being communicated to said agent. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said means for preventing selected portions of a communication from said user to said trusted user interactive portion from also being communicated to said agent comprises: a muting circuit for allowing audio signals to be communicated from said user to said trusted intermediary while preventing said communicated audio signals from also being communicated to said agent. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said trusted portion is an automated IVR system. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said trusted portion and said agent portion are at separate physical locations. 5. The system of claim 3 wherein said IVR remains bridged to said communication connection even when said agent portion has also been bridged onto said communication connection with said user. 6. The system of claim 3 wherein said means for preventing selected portions of a communication from said user to said trusted user interactive portion from also being communicated to said agent comprises: a. circuitry in said IVR system for detecting certain data being communicated over said communication connections, and b. circuitry for temporarily inhibiting communication from said user to said agent portion while said certain data is detected. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said certain data comprises DTMF tones. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said certain data is data used by said agent portion for authentication of said user. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said IVR system provides authentication to said agent portion based upon receiving said certain data from said user. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein said user is a text message user. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said means for preventing selected portions of a communication from said user to said trusted user interactive portion from also being communicated to said agent comprises: a. a data switch in a server; and b. a LAN for directing communication from the user to an automated server and not to the agent. 12. A method of handing telecommunication connections, said method comprising: handling with a trusted intermediary at least a portion of bidirectional communications with a system user; handling with a non-secure agent at least a portion of certain of said bidirectional communications, said non-secure agent requiring access to data defined by sensitive information in the possession of said system user; and inhibiting sensitive information from said system user from being communicated to said non-secure agent while being communicated to said trusted intermediary. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said inhibiting comprises: intercepting said sensitive information by said trusted intermediary. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said trusted intermediary comprises an IVR device. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said IVR device is one of a plurality of IVR devices available for handling calling connections incoming from any one of a plurality of said system users. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said non-secure agent is one of a plurality of non-secure agents available for handling communication connections in conjunction with any one of said IVR devices on an as-needed basis. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein at least one of said non-secure agent is a live agent. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein said trusted intermediary and said non-secure agent are located at physical locations remote from each other. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein said non-secure agent is in text communication with said system user. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said system user is connected to said agent via at least one server on a data network and wherein said agent is connected to said server via a dedicated network. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said trusted intermediary is also connected to said dedicated network. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said inhibiting comprises: separating data communication from said system user away from said non-secure agent. 23. A telecommunication system in which incoming voice calls are answered by a robot operator and the robot operator bi-directionally interacts with a calling user without human intervention, and wherein the calling user is placed into a communication connection with a human agent when the robot operator needs assistance in meeting the needs of the calling user; said telecommunication system comprising: a. circuitry for determining when said human agent requests sensitive data from a calling user; b. circuitry for preventing sensitive data supplied by said calling user from being communicated to said human agent; and c. a processor for accepting said sensitive data from said calling user and for providing to said human agent an indication of proper/improper verification of authenticity of said calling user; wherein said sensitive data is required by said human agent for verification of authenticity of said calling user. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein said robot operator and said human agent are at separate physical locations. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein: a. said robot operator is one of a plurality of IVR devices available for handling calling connections incoming from any one of a plurality of said calling users; and b. said human agent is one of a plurality of agents available for handling communication connections in conjunction with any one of said IVR devices on an as-needed basis. 26. A telecommunication system in which incoming voice calls are answered by a robot operator and the robot operator bi-directionally interacts with a calling user without human intervention, and wherein the calling user is placed into a communication connection with a human agent when the robot operator needs assistance in meeting the needs of the calling user; said telecommunication system comprising: a. means for determining when said human agent requests sensitive data from the calling user; and b. means for preventing sensitive data supplied by said calling user from being communicated to said human agent; and c. a processor for accepting said sensitive data from said calling user and for providing to said human agent an indication of proper/improper verification of authenticity of said calling user; wherein said sensitive data is data required by said human agent for verification of authenticity of said calling user. 27. The system of claim 26 wherein said robot operator and said agent are at separate physical locations. 28. The system of claim 26 wherein: a. said robot operator is one of a plurality of IVR devices available for handling calling connections incoming from any one of a plurality of said calling users; and b. said agent is one of a plurality of agents available for handling communication connections in conjunction with any one of said IVR devices on an as-needed basis. 29. A method comprising: a. a trusted intermediary providing one or more prompts to a system user; b. the trusted intermediary receiving one or more responses from the system user; c. a non-secure agent continuing an interaction initiated by the trusted intermediary by engaging in bi-directional communication with the system user; d. inhibiting sensitive information from the system user from being communicated to the non-secure agent while being communicated to the trusted intermediary by performing acts comprising, during the interaction, preventing a response from the system user to a request to provide sensitive information from being provided to the non-secure agent; and e. after inhibiting the sensitive information from said system user from being communicated to said non-secure agent while being communicated to said trusted intermediary, the non-secure agent resuming the interaction, wherein resuming the interaction comprises the non-secure agent engaging in further bi-directional communication with the system user. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein: a. when, during the interaction, the non-secure agent requires access to data defined by sensitive information in the possession of said system user, the non-secure agent operates a sensitive information button from a plurality of sensitive information buttons; b. the operated sensitive information button corresponds to the sensitive information in possession of the system user which defines the data the non-secure agent requires access to; and c. based on the operation of the sensitive information button corresponding to the sensitive information in possession of the system user which defines the data the non-secure agent requires access to, the trusted intermediary provides the system user the request to provide the sensitive information. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein: a. the request to provide the sensitive information and an additional request to provide sensitive information are provided to both the system user and the non-secure agent; and b. a response from the system user to the additional request to provide sensitive information is prevented from being provided to the non-secure agent. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein: a. a comparison is performed between the response from the system user to the request to provide the sensitive information and expected data; and b. a result of the comparison is provided to the non-secure agent for use in the further bi-directional communication with the system user. 