A robot apparatus is provided for supplying parts to a work conveyor line and assemblying the parts to a work conveyed along the conveyor line. The robot apparatus has a plurality of manipulators and a manipulator support for supporting the manipulators so that each manipulator is movable in a direction perpendicular to the work conveyor line and so that the manipulators protrude from the manipulator support in directions opposite to one another. The movable support of the manipulators enlarges the area accessible to the manipulators in the direction perpendicular to the conveyor line, and the opposite protrusion of the manipulators prevents interference of the manipulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-manipulator robot apparatus for assembling a part to a work conveyed along a conveyor line, the robot apparatus comprising: at least one manipulator, each having a shoulder element, an arm pivotally connected to the shoulder element, an arm case pivotally connected to the arm, an arm tube connected to the arm case, a wrist case connected to the arm tube, and a hand portion connected to the wrist case; a manipulator support extending longitudinally in a direction perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the conveyor line and supporting the at least one manipulator so that said shoulder element of each said manipulator is slidable along the manipulator support and so that said arm extends in a plane perpendicular to said manipulator support, wherein the manipulator support defines a first axis extending in a horizontal direction perpendicular to the conveyor line and said shoulders element is movable along the first axis, wherein each manipulator has a second axis extending parallel to the first axis, said arm being pivotable about the second axis so as to swing in a vertical plane perpendicular to the first axis, and wherein each manipulator has a third axis extending parallel to the second axis, said arm case being pivotable about the third axis so as to swing in a vertical plane perpendicular to the first axis; a manipulator driving device for driving each said manipulator horizontally in a direction perpendicular to the conveyor line along the manipulator support from one end portion of the manipulator support to another end portion of the manipulator support; and a robot controller electrically connected to each said manipulator for operating each said manipulator and the manipulator driving device in harmony with each other. 2. A robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each manipulator has a fourth axis extending perpendicularly to the third axis, said arm tube being rotatable about the fourth axis. 3. A robot apparatus according to claim 2, wherein each manipulator has a fifth axis extending perpendicularly to the fourth axis, said wrist case being pivotable about the fifth axis. 4. A robot apparatus according to claim 3, wherein each manipulator has a sixth axis extending perpendicularly to the fifth axis, said hand portion being rotatable about the fifth axis. 5. A robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein robot apparatus has two manipulators, each projecting from opposite longitudinal sides of said support. 6. A robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said manipulator driving device comprises a pair of screw rods threadably engaged with the shoulder elements of the two manipulators and two electric drive motors, each of said electric drive motors rotating one of the screw rods of said pair. 