According to a method for applying an insulating layer to a surface fibers, of an inorganic material an sprayed onto the surface under simultaneous wetting of the fibers with water and/or a binder so that the fibers stick to the surface whereafter the layer is formed and dryed/hardened. Prior to or after the drying/hardening a binder can be sprayed to the surface for the purpose of achieving a dustless and mechanically resistant surface layer. A device for applying of an insulation to a surface of an object (10), making use of the method, comprises a store (41) of fibers of an inorganic material, a conduit (20) for the transfer fibers from the store (41) to a spray nozzle (21) and device for generating an air flow in the conduit (20) directed towards the nozzle (21). Further, the device includes a first ejector (22) provided at the end of the conduit facing the store (41) for introducing air jets into the conduit (20) in the direction of the fiber stream but at an inclination with respect to the stream, a second ejector (23) disposed at the end of the conduit facing the spray nozzle (21) for the introduction of air jets directed so as to bring the fiber stream into rotation, and a device (24) disposed adjacent to the spray nozzle (21) for introducing into the fiber stream, but outside of the spray nozzle, of liquid jets in the direction of the fiber stream but forming an angle with the stream, the liquid jets comprising a mixture of water and a binder.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for applying insulation to a surface of an object (10), said device comprising a store (15) of fibres of an inorganic material, a spray nozzle (21) having an elongated output area a conduit means (20) connected between said store and said spray nozzle for transferring the fibres from the store (15) to the spray nozzle (21), means (30a) in fluid communication with said store for blowing fibres from the store into the conduit means and for generating an air flow in the conduit means (20) directed towards the nozzle, first ejector means (22) provided at an end of the conduit means adjacent the store (15) for introducing air jets into said conduit means (20) in the direction of a fibre stream so as to apply a drawing effect on fibres adjacent to a conduit inlet, second ejector means (23) disposed at the end of the conduit means adjacent the spray nozzle (21) for the introduction of air jets directed so as to bring the fibre stream into rotation, means in fluid communication with said first and second ejector means for supplying air to said first and second ejector means, and means (24;44-47; 48-53) disposed adjacent to the spray nozzle (21) for introducing liquid jets comprising a mixture of water and a binder into the fibre stream outside of the spray nozzle, said liquid jets being introduced in the direction of the fibre stream but forming an angle with said stream. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the first ejector means (22) comprises a plurality of nozzles (42) distributed along a periphery of the conduit means, said nozzles being directed so that the air jets from said nozzles form an angle with a passing fibre stream of about 30 degrees. 3. A device according to claim 2, wherein eight nozzles (22) are provided, said nozzle being evenly distributed. 4. A device according to claim 1, wherein the second ejector means (23) comprises at least four nozzles (43) disposed crosswise and being directed so as to have the air jets from said nozzles tangentially enter the conduit means (20) and form an angle of about 45 degrees with a passing fibre stream. 5. A device according to claim 4, wherein said spray nozzle has a pair of longer sides and a pair of shorter sides, a plurality of liquid nozzles (24;44,45;48,49) being disposed in a row along both of the longer sides of the spray nozzle (21). 6. A device according to claim 5, wherein at least one of the liquid nozzles is provided adjacent one of the shorter sides of the spray nozzle (21). 7. A device according to claim 5, wherein at least one of said liquid nozzles (46,47;50-53) is provided adjacent each of the shorter sides of the spray nozzle. 8. A device according to claim 5, further comprising an other liquid nozzle (55) adjacent said spray nozzle, said other liquid nozzle (55) being directed so that a liquid jet issuing from said other nozzle (55) wets the surface of said object prior to the application of the fibres. 9. A device according to claim 4, wherein the conduit means (20) is connected to the spray nozzle (21) and an outlet direction of the fibre stream is set within a range limited by shorter sides of an outlet opening of the nozzle. 10. A device according to claim 1, wherein the spray nozzle (21) has a cylindrical inlet part and an outlet part which is mainly rectangular, a shorter side of the outlet part being mainly of the same size as a diameter of said inlet part of the nozzle whereas a longer side of the outlet part has a size which is considerably greater than the inlet part diameter. 11. A device according to any one of claims 7, wherein means (11) adjacent to said spray nozzle are provided to move the surface of the object (10) past the spray nozzle (21), said nozzle being directed so that the fibre stream from said nozzle hits the object surface (10) at an angle to the direction of movement of said object which is greater than 90.degree.. 12. A device according to claim 1, wherein the binder is a silicate-based binder. 13. A device according to claim 1, comprising means (32) for forming a wetted fibre layer applied to the object (10) and means for subsequently drying the formed layer. 14. A device according to claim 1, wherein the conduit means is tiltably connected to the nozzle to allow the direction of fibre flow from the conduit means into the nozzle to be adjustable. 15. A device for applying insulation to a surface of an object as recited in claim 1, further comprising means adjacent said spray nozzle for transporting and holding said object. 16. A device for applying insulation to a surface of an object as recited in claim 15, wherein said means for transporting and holding said object comprise a robotic arm, said arm including a gripping tool which engages a surface of said object and thereby supports said object. 17. A device for applying insulation to a surface of an object as recited in claim 16, wherein said means for transporting and holding said object includes means for pressurizing an interior of said object. 