A coiled cable handling apparatus uses a platform with retractable fingers to maintain the coiled configuration of a coiled cable. The coiled cable having a coiled portion, a first end thereof terminating in a connector and a second end. The reactable fingers contact the inner circumference of the coiled cable, a centrally located nest or clamp secures one end of the cable and a clip secures the other end of the cable. A cable transport mechanism places the coiled cable on the platform or removes it from the platform. The transport mechanism comprises coil pickup clamps to grasp the coiled section of the cable, a clamp to grasp the end of the cable secured by the platform's centrally located clamp, and a clamp to grasp the other end of the cable.
Claims We claim: 1. A coiled cable handling apparatus, said apparatus comprising: platform means for maintaining a coiled cable in a coiled configuration, said coiled cable having a coiled portion, a first end terminating in a connector and a second end, said platform means having a plurality of retractable finger means for contacting an inner perimeter of said coiled portion of said coiled cable and said platform means having a first securing means for grasping said connector; and transport means for removing said coiled cable from said platform means after said plurality of retractable finger means releases said coiled cable and after said securing means releases said connector, said transport means having a plurality of coil pickup means for grasping said coiled portion of said coiled cable and said transport means having a first pickup means for grasping said connector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said platform means comprises second securing means for grasping said coiled cable between said coiled portion and said second end. 3. A coiled cable handling apparatus, said apparatus comprising: platform means for maintaining a coiled cable in a coiled configuration, said coiled cable having a coiled portion, a first end terminating in a connector and a second end, said platform means having a plurality of retractable finger means for contacting an inner perimeter of said coiled portion of said coiled cable and said platform means having a securing means for grasping said connector; and transport means for removing said coiled cable from said platform means after said plurality of retractable finger means releases said coiled cable and after said securing means releases said connector, said transport means having a plurality of coil pickup means for grasping said coiled portion of said coiled cable, first pickup means for grasping said connector and second pickup means for grasping said coiled cable between said coiled portion and said second end. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said platform means comprises a plurality of recesses that receive said plurality of coil pickup means. 