The present invention provides a loadlock assembly for a high throughput ion implantation system that rapidly and efficiently processes large quantities of workpieces, such as flat panel displays. The loadlock assembly increases the throughput of the implantation system by continuously cycling workpieces through the process chamber, thus increasing the system's throughput. The loadlock assembly includes a plurality of loadlock stacking elements that are axially positioned relative to each other to form a stacked array of loadlocks. Additionally, the loadlocks of the array are configured to nest with an adjacent loadlock to form a stackable and nestable loadlock assembly.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A loadlock assembly for an ion implantation system, comprising a plurality of loadlock stacking elements each having a top surface and a bottom surface, the loadlock stacking elements being axially positioned relative to each other to form a stacked array wherein the loadlock stacking elements are configured to facilitate nested stacking by a geometrically shaped surface on one loadlock stacking element coupling with a complementary geometrically shaped surface on an adjacent loadlock stacking element for forming a loadlock chamber. 2. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of loadlock stacking elements form an array of loadlock chambers when stacked. 3. The loadlock assembly of claim 2, wherein one of the loadlock stacking elements has a slot formed in a front face and a back face thereof, the slot opening onto one of the chambers, the assembly further comprising a gate valve operatively coupled with one of the slots and a second gate valve operatively coupled with the other slot. 4. The loadlock assembly of claim 2, further comprising a pump-down assembly coupled to one of the loadlock chambers for disposing the chamber at a selected pressure. 5. The loadlock assembly of claim 2, wherein the loadlock chamber has a floor, and the assembly further includes cooling structure for disposing the chamber floor at a selected cooling temperature to form a cold deck. 6. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein each loadlock stacking element includes nesting means for nesting the loadlocks with an adjacent loadlock when stacked together. 7. The loadlock assembly of claim 6, wherein the nesting means further comprises a configured bottom surface having a first geometric shape mating with a configured top surface of an adjacent loadlock having a complementary geometric shape such that the loadlock elements nest together when stacked. 8. The loadlock assembly of claim 6, wherein the nesting means further comprises a configured top surface having an inwardly stepped side rim. 9. The loadlock assembly of claim 6, wherein the nesting means further comprises a configured bottom surface having an outwardly stepped side rim. 10. The loadlock assembly of claim 6, wherein the nesting means further comprises a configured top surface of the loadlock having a first topmost side, an inwardly stepped second top side, and a third top side inwardly stepped from the second side, and a configured bottom surface having a first bottom-most side, an outwardly stepped second bottom side, and a third bottom side outwardly stepped from the second bottom side. 11. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the top surface of each loadlock stacking element has a first topmost face and a recessed second face which is separated from the first face by a first wall portion. 12. The loadlock assembly of claim 11, wherein the top surface further comprises a third face inwardly stepped from the recessed second face and separated therefrom by a second wall portion generally parallel to the first wall. 13. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the bottom surface of each loadlock stacking element includes a first bottom-most face and an outwardly stepped second face which is separated from the first face by a first wall portion. 14. The loadlock assembly of claim 13, wherein the bottom surface further comprises a third face outwardly stepped from the second face and separated therefrom by a second wall portion generally parallel to the first wall portion. 15. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the top surface of each loadlock stacking element includes a first topmost face, a recessed second top face, and a third top face inwardly stepped from the recessed second face, and the bottom surface has a first bottom-most face, an outwardly stepped second bottom face, and a third bottom face outwardly stepped from the second bottom face. 16. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, further comprising temperature control means coupled to one of the loadlock elements for disposing at least a portion of the loadlock element at a selected temperature condition. 17. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, further comprising a sealing member interposed between adjacent loadlock stacking elements in the stacked loadlock array for forming a pressure seal therebetween. 18. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the stacked loadlock elements define a front loadlock face, the loadlock assembly further comprising a face plate having a plurality of aligned slots and overlying the front loadlock face when mounted thereto, each slot of the face plate being disposed in registration with a corresponding loadlock opening formed in the front loadlock face of each loadlock element to allow passage of a workpiece therethrough. 19. The loadlock assembly of claim 18, wherein the face plate has a first surface and a recessed second surface having openings formed therein, the first surface having a plurality of concentric sealing grooves circumscribing the recessed surface and being sized to seat a corresponding sealing member. 20. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the top surface has a first topmost face, a recessed second face which is separated from the first face by a first wall, and a third face inwardly stepped from the recessed second face and separated therefrom by a second wall generally parallel to the first wall, and wherein the bottom surface has a first bottom-most face, an outwardly stepped second face which is separated from the first face by a first wall, and a third face outwardly stepped from the second face and separated therefrom by a second wall generally parallel to the first wall. 21. The loadlock assembly of claim 20, wherein the loadlock stacking elements are configured to nest together such that the third bottom face contacts the first topmost face and the second bottom face contacts the second top face when the loadlocks are stacked together, the nested and stacked loadlocks forming a loadlock chamber such that the first bottom-most face forms a roof of the chamber and the third top face forms a floor of the chamber. 22. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, wherein the stacked loadlock elements are configured to facilitate processing of multiple workpieces by the ion implantation system. 23. The loadlock assembly of claim 1, further including means for mounting the loadlock assembly to a wall of a process housing defining a process chamber of an ion implantation system. 24. A loadlock assembly for an ion implantation system, comprising a plurality of loadlock stacking elements having a top surface and a bottom surface, the loadlock elements being axially positioned relative to each other to form a stacked array of loadlocks, each pair of adjacent loadlock elements forming a loadlock chamber when stacked, and wherein the loadlock elements are configured to facilitate nesting of adjacent loadlocks, such that the bottom surface of one loadlock element nests in the top surface of an adjacent loadlock element. 