A compliant end effector particularly suited for use with a robotic arm for accurately cutting and trimming the edges of a hot molded sheet of flexible plastic. The compliant end effector includes a mount secured to the robotic arm, an adjustment assembly pivotally attached to the mount, a guide that engages the plastic sheet near the area to be cut and trimmed, a tool for cutting and trimming the flexible sheet, and a pneumatic cylinder that biases the guide into engagement with the flexible sheet and presses the sheet against a rigid surface. The pneumatic cylinder moves the guide and tool through a range of positions as the robotic arm moves along a single path of travel down the length of the flexible sheet. The guide remains in contact with the flexible sheet despite warping or other imperfections in the stabilizing surface. The tool is fixed a predetermined distance from the guide to ensure that the plastic sheet is cut and trimmed within specific tolerances. By rotating the end effector, tabs and recesses can be formed in the edge of the flexible sheet while the robot moves along its single path of travel.
Claims We claim: 1. A compliant end effector attachable to a robot for performing work on a work piece, said compliant end effector comprising: an adjustment assembly movably attachable to the robot; a guide having a predetermined length and extending from said adjustment assembly in a predetermined direction, said guide having a work piece engaging portion for engaging the work piece at a predetermined location; a tool having a predetermined length and extending from said adjustment assembly in a predetermined direction, said tool having a working end for engaging the work piece a predetermined distance from said location where said work piece engaging portion of said guide engages said work piece; and, a biasing mechanism for biasing said guide toward a first biased position, said biasing mechanism permitting said guide to move through a range of biased positions when engaging the work piece, said biasing mechanism causing said work piece engaging portion of said guide to remain in contact with the work piece. 2. The compliant end effector of claim 1, and wherein the guide and tool are rigidly fixed to said adjustment assembly and said working end of said tool remains a constant predetermined distance from said work piece engaging portion of said guide. 3. The compliant end effector of claim 2, and wherein the work piece has a predetermined length and the robot is programmed to move along a predetermined path of travel along the length of the work piece, and said biasing mechanism biases said guide against the work piece as the robot moves along said predetermined path of travel and said tool continues to engage the work piece a predetermined distance from said work piece engaging portion of said guide. 4. The compliant end effector of claim 3, and wherein said mechanism biases said work engaging portion of said guide into a first predetermined position prior to engagement with the work piece. 5. The compliant end effector of claim 1, and further comprising a mount rigidly secured to the robot, said mount having a first location, and said adjustment assembly having a first point movably attached to said first location of said mount. 6. An industrial robot for performing work on a work piece, said robot comprising: a body; an adjustment assembly movably attached to said body; a guide having a predetermined length and extending from said adjustment assembly in a predetermined direction, said guide having a work piece engaging portion that engages the work piece at a predetermined location; a tool having a predetermined length and extending from said adjustment assembly in a predetermined direction, said tool having a working end that engages the work piece a predetermined distance from said location where said work piece engaging portion of said guide engages said work piece; and, a biasing mechanism that biases said guide toward a first biased position, said biasing mechanism permitting said guide to move through a range of biased positions when engaging the work piece, said biasing mechanism causing said work piece engaging portion of said guide to remain in contact with the work piece. 7. The compliant end effector of claim 1, wherein the workpiece is flexible, and wherein the flexible work piece is placed proximal a stabilizing fixture, and said biasing mechanism causes said guide to push the flexible work piece toward said fixture. 8. The compliant end effector of claim 7, and wherein said stabilizing fixture has a surface and said guide presses the flexible work piece against said surface of said fixture. 9. The compliant end effector of claim 8, and wherein the biasing mechanism is a telescoping cylinder having first and second tubes, and wherein the cylinder has a predetermined internal pressure that biases said first and second tubes into said first biased position, said first tube being movably attached to a second location on said mount, and said second tube being movably attached to a second point on said adjustment assembly, said first and second points of said adjustment assembly being a predetermined distance apart. 10. The compliant end effector of claim 9, and further including means for adjusting said internal pressure in said telescoping cylinder. 11. The compliant end effector of claim 10, and wherein said first point of said adjustment assembly is pivotally attached to said first location of said mount, and said telescoping cylinder pivots said adjustment assembly, guide and tool about said first point of said assembly and through a predetermined range of motion with respect to said mount. 12. The compliant end effector of claim 4, and wherein said end effector is attached to an end of the robot, and wherein rotation of the end of the robot moves said working end of said tool closer to said path of travel of the robot. 13. The compliant end effector of claim 4, and wherein said end effector is attached to an end of the robot, and wherein rotation of the end of the robot moves said working end of said tool away from said path of travel of the robot. 14. The compliant end effector of claim 4, and wherein said adjustment assembly includes a port for releasably securing said guide. 15. The compliant end effector of claim 1, and wherein the work engaging portion of the guide is a roller. 16. The compliant end effector of claim 1, and wherein said tool is a spindle and the working end of said tool is a cutting and trimming device. 17. A compliant end effector attachable to a robot for performing work on a flexible work piece having a predetermined length, the robot being programmed to move along a predetermined path of travel along the length of the work piece, said compliant end effector comprising: a mount securable to the robot, said mount having first and second locations; a adjustment assembly having first and second points, said first point being pivotally attached to said first location of said mount; a guide having a predetermined length and extending from said adjustment assembly in a predetermined direction, said guide being rigidly fixed to said adjustment assembly and having a portion for engaging the flexible work piece responsive to movement by the robot; a tool having a predetermined length and extending from said assembly in a predetermined direction, said tool being rigidly fixed to said adjustment assembly and having a working end for engaging the work piece, said working end being maintained a constant predetermined distance from said work piece engaging portion of said guide; and, a telescopic cylinder having first and second tubes holding a predetermined internal pressure, said first tube being pivotally attached to said second location of said mount, and said second tube being pivotally attached to said second point of said adjustment assembly, said first and second points of said assembly being a predetermined distance apart, said internal pressure biasing said guide into a first biased position prior to engagement with said work piece, said cylinder permitting said guide to move through a range of biased positions when the robot causes said guide to engage the work piece, said work piece engaging portion of said guide remaining in contact with the work piece as the robot moves along said predetermined path of travel along the length of the work piece. 18. The compliant end effector of claim 17, and wherein the flexible work piece is placed proximal a stabilizing fixture, and said telescoping cylinder causes said work engaging portion of said guide to push the flexible work piece toward said fixture. 19. The compliant end effector of claim 18, and further including means for adjusting said internal pressure in said telescoping cylinder. 20. The compliant end effector of claim 19, and wherein said guide adjustment assembly includes a port for releasably securing said guide. 21. The compliant end effector of claim 17, and wherein said tool is a spindle and the working end of said tool is a cutting and trimming device. 22. The robot of claim 6, and wherein said tool is a spindle and the working end of said tool is a cutting and trimming device. 23. The robot of claim 6, further comprising: an articulated arm connected to the body and formed of a plurality of segments pivotably connected together in adjacent relationship; means for pivoting each segment with respect to each adjacent segment. 24. The robot of claim 23, and wherein the guide and tool are rigidly fixed to said adjustment assembly and said working end of said tool remains a constant predetermined distance from said work piece engaging portion of said guide. 25. The robot of claim 24, and wherein the work piece has a predetermined length and the robot is programmed to move along a predetermined path of travel along the length of the work piece, and said biasing mechanism biases said guide against the work piece as the robot moves along said predetermined path of travel and said tool continues to engage the work piece a predetermined distance from said work piece engaging portion of said guide. 26. The robot of claim 25, and wherein said mechanism biases said work engaging portion of said guide into said first predetermined position prior to engagement with the work piece. 27. The robot of claim 23, and further comprising a mount rigidly secured to the arm, said mount having a first location, and said adjustment assembly having a first point movably attached to said first location of said mount. 28. The robot of claim 23, wherein the work piece is flexible, and wherein the flexible work piece is placed proximal a stabilizing fixture, and said biasing mechanism causes said guide to push the flexible work piece toward said fixture. 29. The robot of claim 28, and wherein said stabilizing fixture has a surface and said guide presses the flexible work piece against said surface of said fixture. 30. The robot of claim 29, and wherein the biasing mechanism is a telescoping cylinder having first and second tubes, and wherein the cylinder has a predetermined internal pressure that biases said first and second tubes into said first biased position, said first tube being movably attached to a second location on said mount, and said second tube being movably attached to a second point on said adjustment assembly, said first and second points of said adjustment assembly being a predetermined distance apart. 31. The robot of claim 30, and further including means for adjusting said internal pressure in said telescoping cylinder. 32. The robot of claim 29, and wherein said first point of said adjustment assembly is pivotally attached to said first location of said mount, and said telescoping cylinder pivots said adjustment assembly, guide and tool about said first point of said assembly and through a predetermined range of motion with respect to said mount. 33. The robot of claim 26, wherein said arm is rotatable, and wherein rotation of said robotic arm moves said working end of said tool closer to said path of travel of said robot. 34. The robot of claim 26, wherein said arm is rotatable, and wherein rotation of said robotic arm moves said working end of said tool away from said path of travel of said robot. 35. The robot of claim 26, and wherein said adjustment assembly includes a port for releasably securing said guide. 36. The robot of claim 27, and wherein the work engaging portion of the guide is a roller. 