A method of constructing and designing a fuzzy controller is developed based on converting a finite dimensional linear controller to a fuzzy controller. After the fuzzy controller is created, it can be enhanced using heuristic knowledge. The fuzzy controller is constructed or designed using a microprocessor to calculate a defuzzified output based on singleton fuzzification, product inferencing and centroidal defuzzification. A fuzzy controller can be created much more quickly and accurately than with previous methods.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of constructing multi-input fuzzy controllers for a microprocessor based control system, said system controlling a plant, said method being based on a finite dimensional linear controller for said system, said method comprising: (a) choosing input membership functions so that a sum of membership grades for a particular input will be unity and each membership grade will vary linearly with the input over the range of that particular membership function, wherein a first membership function has a first membership grade which is non-symmetrical about a maximum membership grade; (b) choosing a fuzzy associative memory so that it encompasses all possible combinations of input sets; (c) choosing output membership functions as functions of equal area; and (d) using said microprocessor to calculate a defuzzified output based on singleton fuzzification, product inferencing and centroidal defuzzification; thereby converting said linear controller to an equivalent fuzzy controller. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein a rule exists for every possible combination of input sets in the fuzzy associative memory and each rule has a separate output set. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said input membership functions include said first membership function, an adjacent second membership function and a third membership function adjacent said second membership function, said second membership function between said first and third membership functions, said step (b) further including the steps of: choosing said first membership function and said second membership function each having a maximum membership grade separated by a first value; choosing said third membership function to have a maximum membership grade which is separated from said second maximum membership grade by a second value different from said first value. 4. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the output sets are based on linear control law. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the input sets are normal, triangular in shape with an overlap at a membership grade of 0.5. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the singleton fuzzification and product inferencing for each output in accordance with the equation: ##EQU37## where y.sub.0 (u) is the control action; u is the input vector; B.sup.l is the centroid of the output set for rule l of each output; n is the number of inputs; u.sub.i is the elements of the input vector; M is the number of rules in the fuzzy associative measures; .mu..sub.A (u.sub.i) is a membership grade for input i on rule l; and a denominator of the equation is equal to one. 7. A method of constructing multi-input fuzzy controllers for a microprocessor based control system, said system controlling a plant, said method being based on a finite dimensional linear controller for said system, said method comprising: (a) choosing input membership functions so that a sum of membership grades for a particular input will be unity and each membership grade will vary linearly with the input over the range of that particular membership function; (b) choosing a fuzzy associative memory so that it encompasses all possible combinations of input sets, and so that a rule exists for every possible combination of input sets in the fuzzy associative memory and each rule has a separate output set, said output sets are based on linear control law, the input sets are normal, triangular in shape with an overlap at a membership grade of 0.5; (c) choosing output membership functions as symmetrical unimodal functions of equal area; and (d) using said microprocessor to calculate a defuzzified output based on singleton fuzzification, product inferencing and centroidal defuzzification, the singleton fuzzification and product inferencing for each output in accordance with the equation: ##EQU38## where y.sub.0 (u) is the control action: u is the input vector; B.sup.l is the centroid of the output set for rule l of each output; n is the number of inputs; u.sub.i is the elements of the input vector; M is the number of rules in the fuzzy associative measures; .mu..sub.A (u.sub.i) is a membership grade for input i on rule l; and a denominator of the equation is equal to one; wherein the linear controller satisfies the equation: where y.sub.0 is the control action; K(t) is a time varying gain matrix; z(x) is a vector of any linear function of the plant states; c(t) is a time varying offset vector and the input membership functions are triangular and the membership grades corresponding to the membership function are calculated as: ##EQU39## where z.sub.i is equal to u; A.sub.i.sup.0 is the centroid of the first membership function of input i with a non-zero membership grade; A.sub.i.sup.1 is the centroid of the second membership function of input i with a non-zero membership grade; making the sum of the membership grades equal to one and the fuzzy associative memory contains all possible combinations of the input sets such that the number of unique rules is: where n is the number of inputs; .eta..sub.i is the number of sets spanning input i and is a positive integer >1; the centroids of the output sets for each output are based on the linear control law of the equation y.sub.0 =K(t)z(x)+c(t) and are determined for the first and second membership functions with the non-zero membership grades in accordance with the equation: ##EQU40## where B is the centroid of the output set for rules 0 . . . to . . . 2.sup.n -1 for each output; and k.sub.1 (t) . . . k.sub.n (t) is the row in k(t) corresponding to the particular output being dealt with. 8. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1, 6 or 7 wherein the controller has a multi-output including the step of repeating the method for each output. 9. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1, 6 or 7 including the step of further enhancing the fuzzy controller heuristically after it is created. 10. A method as claimed in any one of claims 1, 6 or 7 including the step of designing a finite dimensional linear controller. 11. A method of designing multi-input fuzzy controllers for a microprocessor based control system, said system controlling a plant, said method being based on a finite dimensional linear controller for said system, said method comprising: (a) choosing input membership functions so that a sum of membership grades for a particular input will be unity and each membership grade will vary linearly with the input over the range of that particular membership function; (b) choosing a fuzzy associative memory so that it encompasses all possible combination of input sets; (c) choosing output membership functions as functions of equal area; (d) calculating time-variant centroids of said output membership functions based upon said linear controller; (e) using said microprocessor to calculate a defuzzified output based on singleton fuzzification and centroidal defuzzification; thereby converting said linear controller to an equivalent fuzzy controller. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein each of said centroids is calculated where all of said inputs have a membership grade of one. 13. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the singleton fuzzification and product inferencing for each output is in accordance with the equation: ##EQU41## where y.sub.0 (u) is the control action; u is the input vector; B.sup.l is the centroid of the output set for rule l of each output; n is the number of inputs; u.sub.i is the elements of the input vector; M is the number of rules in the fuzzy associative measures; .mu..sub.A (u.sub.i) is a membership grade for input i on rule l; and a denominator of the equation is equal to one. 14. A method of constructing a multi-input fuzzy controller for a control system controlling a plant, said method being based on a linear controller for said system, said method including the steps of: (a) choosing input membership functions so that a sum of membership grades for a particular input will be unity and each membership grade will vary linearly with the input over the range of that particular membership function; (b) choosing output membership functions as functions of equal area; (c) calculating centroids of said output membership functions as singletons based upon said linear controller; (d) calculating a defuzzified output based on centroidal defuzzification; thereby converting said linear controller to an equivalent fuzzy controller. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein each of said centroids is calculated where all of said inputs have a membership grade of one. 