A robotic module comprising a housing having opposed first and second sides, and comprising a base, a first end comprising a first drive feature on one of the first and second sides, and a second end comprising a second drive feature on one of the first and second sides. A first rotatable hub is mounted on the first end of the housing and comprises a third drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the first drive feature. A second rotatable hub is mounted on the second end of the housing and comprises a fourth drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the second drive feature. The robotic module is further comprised of a coupling for synchronously rotating the first and second rotatable hubs. A first robotic module may be engaged with a second robotic module to form a robot.
Claims I claim: 1. A first robotic module comprising: a. an elongated housing having opposed first and second sides, and comprising a base, a first end comprising a first drive feature on one of the first and second sides of the housing, and a second end comprising a second drive feature on one of the first and second sides of the housing; b. a first rotatable hub mounted on the first end of the housing and comprising a third drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the first drive feature; c. a second rotatable hub mounted on the second end of the housing and comprising a fourth drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the second drive feature; and d. a drive belt operatively engaged with the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub; wherein any one of the first drive feature, second drive feature, third drive feature, and fourth drive features of the first robotic module is engageable with any one of a first drive feature, a second drive feature, a third drive feature, and a fourth drive feature of a second robotic module that is substantially a duplicate of the first robotic module. 2. The robotic module of claim 1, further comprising a drive carriage operatively engaged with the drive belt. 3. The robotic module of claim 2, further comprising a motor operatively connected to the drive carriage. 4. The robotic module of claim 3, wherein the motor is a rotary motor comprising a rotatable shaft. 5. The robotic module of claim 1, further comprising a drive carriage operatively engaged with the drive belt, a rotary motor comprising a rotatable shaft, and a lead screw operatively connected to the rotatable shaft of the rotary motor and to the drive carriage. 6. The robotic module of claim 2, wherein the drive carriage is detectable by a first sensor mounted in the housing. 7. A first robotic module comprising: a. an elongated housing having opposed first and second sides, and comprising a base, a first end comprising a first drive feature on one of the first and second sides of the housing, and a second end comprising a second drive feature on one of the first and second sides of the housing; b. a first rotatable hub mounted on the first end of the housing and comprising a third drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the first drive feature; c. a second rotatable hub mounted on the second end of the housing and comprising a fourth drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the second drive feature; and d. means for synchronously rotating the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub; wherein any one of the first drive feature, second drive feature, third drive feature, and fourth drive features of the first robotic module is engageable with any one of a first drive feature, a second drive feature, a third drive feature, and a fourth drive feature of a second robotic module that is substantially a duplicate of the first robotic module. 8. The robotic module of claim 7, wherein the means for synchronously rotating the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub is comprised of a drive belt operatively engaged with the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub. 9. The robotic module of claim 8, wherein the means for synchronously rotating the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub is comprised of a drive carriage operatively engaged with the drive belt. 10. The robotic module of claim 9, wherein the means for synchronously rotating the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub is comprised of a motor operatively connected to the drive carriage. 11. The robotic module of claim 7, wherein the means for synchronously rotating the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub is comprised of a drive belt operatively engaged with the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub, a drive carriage operatively engaged with the drive belt, a rotary motor comprising a rotatable shaft, and a lead screw operatively connected to the rotatable shaft of the rotary motor and to the drive carriage. 12. A robot comprised of a first robotic module and a second robotic module, each of the first and second robotic modules comprising: a. an elongated housing having opposed first and second sides, and comprising a base, a first end comprising a first drive feature on one of the first and second sides of the housing, and a second end comprising a second drive feature on one of the first and second sides of the housing; b. a first rotatable hub mounted on the first end of the housing and comprising a third drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the first drive feature; c. a second rotatable hub mounted on the second end of the housing and comprising a fourth drive feature on the side of the housing opposite the side of the second drive feature; and d. a drive belt operatively engaged with the first rotatable hub and the second rotatable hub; wherein one of the first drive feature, second drive feature, third drive feature, and fourth drive features of the first rotatable hub of the first robotic module is engaged with one of the first drive feature, the second drive feature, the third drive feature, and the fourth drive features of the second robotic module; and wherein the robot may be reconfigured such that any one of the first drive feature, second drive feature, third drive feature, and fourth drive feature of the first rotatable hub of the first robotic module is engaged with any one of the first drive feature, the second drive feature, the third drive feature, and the fourth drive feature of the second robotic module. 13. The robot of claim 12, further comprising a first drive carriage operatively engaged with the drive belt of the first robotic module and a first motor operatively connected to the first drive carriage. 14. The robot of claim 13, further comprising a second drive carriage operatively engaged with the drive belt of the second robotic module and a second motor operatively connected to the second drive carriage. 15. The robot of claim 14, further comprising a tool operatively connected to one the drive features of the first robotic module not connected to the second robotic module. 16. The robot of claim 15, wherein the tool is an end effector. 17. The robot of claim 12, wherein one of the first and second drive features of the first robotic module is engaged with one of the third and fourth drive features of the second robotic module. 18. The robot of claim 17, wherein the one of the third and fourth drive features of the second robotic module not connected to the first robotic module is connected to a stationary mount. 19. The robot of claim 12, further comprising a tool operatively connected to one of the third and fourth drive feature of the second hub of the first robotic module. 20. The robot of claim 12, wherein one of the first and second rotatable hubs of the first module is coupled to one of the first and second rotatable hubs of the second module. 