A robotic turret tool for use with an industrial robot is mountable onto the spindle of the robot and capable of having multiple tools mounted thereto. The turret tool includes a mounting bracket adapted to be affixed to the spindle of the industrial robot, the mounting bracket including a locking element support. A turret shaft affixed to said mounting bracket. A turret head is rotatably supported on the turret shaft with multiple tools attached to the turret head allowing the robot to select which tool to use through rotation of the turret head. A locking element is slidably mounted in the locking element support. The locking element including an upper electrical supply connector and an upper pneumatic supply conduit path. The locking element is movable from a locked position engaging said turret head to an unlocked position away from said turret head. There are at least two lower electrical supply connectors mounted to said turret head with each of the lower electrical supply connectors being dedicated to one of tools. There are also at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths with each of the lower pneumatic supply conduit paths being dedicated to one of tools. The upper pneumatic supply conduit path aligns with a selected one of the at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths when the locking element is moved to the locked position and the upper electrical supply connector aligns with a selected one of the at least two lower electrical supply connectors when said locking element is moved to said locked position. In such manner, electrical and pneumatic services are supplied only to the selected tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic turret tool device for use with an industrial robot having a spindle extending therefrom, said robotic turret tool device comprising: (a) a mounting bracket adapted to be affixed to the spindle of the industrial robot, said mounting bracket including a locking element support; (b) a turret shaft non-rotatably affixed to said mounting bracket; (c) a turret head rotatably supported on said turret shaft, said turret head including at least two tool mounting surfaces and an upper, generally planar surface having at least two wedge blocks projecting therefrom, each of said at least two wedge blocks having two inclined surfaces; (d) a first pneumatic conduit bore through each of said inclined surfaces and extending to an external surface of said turret head; (e) a locking element slidably mounted in said locking element support, said locking element including a pair of spaced apart chocks, each of said chocks including a pair of chamfered surfaces, said locking element being movable from a locked position where said chamfered surfaces engage said inclined surfaces to an unlocked position where said chocks do not interfere with said wedge blocks; (f) a second pneumatic conduit bore into one of said chamfered surfaces on each of said chocks and through said locking element, said second pneumatic conduit bores aligning with two of said first pneumatic conduit bores when said locking element is in said locked position; and (g) means for rotating said turret head, said means for rotating attached to said mounting bracket. 2. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 1 further comprising: (a) a contact block for each of said tool mounting surfaces, each of said contact blocks mounted to said generally planar surface, each of said contact blocks having a plurality of pin receptacles therein; and (b) a pin block attached to said locking element, said pin block having a plurality of electrical connector pins extending therefrom, said electrical connector pins inserting into said pin receptacles when said locking element is moved to said locked position. 3. A robotic turret tool device for use with an industrial robot having a spindle extending therefrom, said robotic turret tool device comprising: (a) a mounting bracket adapted to be affixed to the spindle of the industrial robot, said mounting bracket including a locking element support; (b) a turret shaft affixed to said mounting bracket; (c) a turret head rotatably supported on said turret shaft, said turret head including at least two tool mounting surfaces (d) a locking element slidably mounted in said locking element support, said locking element including an upper electrical supply connector and an upper pneumatic supply conduit path, said locking element being movable from a locked position engaging said turret head to an unlocked position away from said turret head; (e) at least two lower electrical supply connectors mounted to said turret head, each of said lower electrical supply connectors being dedicated to one of said at least two tool mounting surfaces; and (f) at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths, each of said lower pneumatic supply conduit paths being dedicated to one of said at least two tool mounting surfaces, said upper pneumatic supply conduit path aligning with a selected one of at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths when said locking element is moved to said locked position, said upper electrical supply connector aligning with a selected one of at least two lower electrical supply connectors when said locking element is moved to said locked position. 4. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 3 further comprising: means for rotating said turret head, said means for rotating attached to said mounting bracket. 5. A robotic turret tool device for use with an industrial robot, said robotic turret tool device comprising: (a) a mounting bracket adapted to be affixed to the industrial robot, said mounting bracket including a locking element support; (b) a turret shaft affixed to said mounting bracket; (c) a turret head rotatably supported on said turret shaft, said turret head including at least two tool mounting surfaces; (d) a locking element slidably mounted in said locking element support, said locking element including a upper electrical supply connector and an upper pneumatic supply conduit path; (e) means for moving said locking element from a locked position engaging said turret head to an unlocked position away from said turret head; (f) at least two lower electrical supply connectors mounted to said turret head, each of said lower electrical supply connectors being dedicated to one of said at least two tool mounting surfaces; and (g) at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths, each of said lower pneumatic supply conduit paths being dedicated to one of said at least two tool mounting surfaces, said upper pneumatic supply conduit path aligning with a selected one of at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths when said locking element is moved to said locked position, said upper electrical supply connector aligning with a selected one of at least two lower electrical supply connectors when said locking element is moved to said locked position. 6. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 5 further comprising: means attached to said mounting bracket for rotating said turret head, said means for rotating attached to said mounting bracket. 7. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 6 further comprising: a ring gear mounted in said turret head. 8. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 7 wherein: said means attached to said mounting bracket for rotating said turret head is a stepper motor with a spur gear, said spur gear intermeshing with said ring gear. 9. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 5 further comprising: sensor means attached to said mounting bracket for determining a rotational position of said turret head. 10. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 9 wherein: said sensor means is an electromagnetic-type sensing device. 11. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 3 wherein said locking element comprises: a pair of spaced end rails, each of said end rails including a pair of chamfered surfaces disposed on a distal end thereof, said upper pneumatic supply conduit path being into said end rails and terminating at one of said chamfered surfaces on each of said distal ends. 12. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 11 wherein said turret head includes: a generally planar upper surface having at least two wedge blocks projecting therefrom, each of said at least two wedge blocks having two inclined surfaces, said chamfered surfaces engaging said inclined surfaces when said locking element is in said locked position, said at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths terminating at said inclined surfaces of said wedge blocks, said chamfered surfaces in combination with said inclined surfaces ensuring alignment of said upper pneumatic supply conduit path with a selected one of said at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths. 13. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 5 wherein said locking element comprises: a pair of spaced end rails, each of said end rails including a pair of chamfered surfaces disposed on a distal end thereof, said upper pneumatic supply conduit path being into said end rails and terminating at one of said chamfered surfaces on each of said distal ends. 14. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 13 wherein said turret head includes: a generally planar upper surface having at least two wedge blocks projecting therefrom, each of said at least two wedge blocks having two inclined surfaces, said chamfered surfaces engaging said inclined surfaces when said locking element is in said locked position, said at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths terminating at said inclined surfaces of said wedge blocks, said chamfered surfaces in combination with said inclined surfaces ensuring alignment of said upper pneumatic supply conduit path with a selected one of said at least two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths. 15. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 5 wherein: said mounting bracket includes a longitudinal bore adapted to receive a spindle extending from the industrial robot, said longitudinal bore having a longitudinal axis which is at an angle of about 40.degree. from a cylindrical axis of said turret shaft. 16. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 3 wherein: said mounting bracket includes a longitudinal bore adapted to receive a spindle extending from the industrial robot, said longitudinal bore having a longitudinal axis which is at an angle of about 40.degree. from a cylindrical axis of said turret shaft. 17. A robotic turret tool device as recited in claim 5 wherein: there are two lower pneumatic supply conduit paths dedicated to each of said tool mounting surfaces and there are two upper pneumatic supply conduit paths through said locking element. 18. A robotic turret tool device for use with an industrial robot having a spindle extending therefrom, said robotic turret tool device comprising: (a) a mounting bracket adapted to be affixed to the industrial robot; (b) a locking element slidably mounted on said mounting bracket, said locking element including an upper electrical supply circuit and an upper pneumatic supply circuit; (c) a turret head rotatably supported on a turret shaft, said turret head including at least two tool mounting surfaces, said turret head also including a lower electrical supply circuit and a lower pneumatic supply circuit for each of said tool mounting surfaces, said turret shaft supported from said mounting bracket; (d) means attached to said mounting bracket for rotating said turret head to move a selected tool mounted to one of said at least two tool mounting surfaces to an operating position; and (e) means for moving said locking element from a locked position engaging said turret head to an unlocked position away from said turret head, said upper electrical supply circuit and said upper pneumatic supply circuit connecting with said lower electrical supply circuit and said lower pneumatic supply circuit, respectively, associated with said tool in said operating position. 