A sensor for measuring the amount of a fluid such as electrostatically charged paint in a canister wherein part of the sensor moves within a cavity which is insulated from the paint. A body such as a piston moves linearly within the canister to dispense the paint from the canister. In two embodiments, the sensor is a non-contact sensor including a magnet which moves with the piston and creates a magnetic field in the cavity. A ferromagnetic device of the sensor moves linearly along a sensor element in the cavity in response to movement of the magnetic field created by the moving magnet. In another embodiment, the sensor includes an elongated pliable cable connected at one end thereof to the piston to move therewith. The opposite end of the cable is connected to a sensor element of the sensor such as a rotary encoder. Each sensor provides a signal to allow the metering of the paint entering or/and discharged from the canister.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor for sensing the position of a body which moves linearly in an environment, the sensor comprising an assembly including a cavity electrostatically and fluidly insulated from the environment and coupling means having a coupling force for coupling the motion of the body to the outside of the environment, the coupling means being adapted to be connected to the body to move linearly therewith, the assembly further including a conductive guide means disposed within the cavity and a non-magnetized conductive sensor part supported for linear movement on and relative to the guide means, the sensor part being coupled by the coupling means so as to move on the guide means in response to the movement of the body and the coupling force maintains electrical contact between the sensor part and the guide means during movement of the sensor part relative to the guide means wherein the sensor is adapted to provide an electrical signal representative of the position of the body. 2. The sensor of claim 1 wherein coupling means is a magnet magnetically coupled to the sensor part. 3. A non-contact sensor for sensing the linear position of a body which moves linearly in an environment, the sensor comprising an assembly including a cavity electrostatically and fluidly insulated from the environment and generating means for generating a magnetic field within the cavity, the generating means being adapted to be coupled to the body to move linearly therewith, the assembly including a conductive sensor element disposed within the cavity, a conductive guide means disposed within the cavity and a non-magnetized, conductive ferromagnetic device supported for linear movement on the guide means and magnetically coupled to the generating means so as to move relative to and in electrical communication with the guide means and the sensor element in response to movement of the generating means and its magnetic field along the sensor element, and wherein the sensor is adapted to provide a signal representative of the position of the body. 4. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the generating means includes a magnet. 5. The sensor as claimed in claim 4 wherein the magnet is a cylindrical magnet positioned about the ferromagnetic device and the sensor element. 6. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the sensor element is an electrically resistive potentiometer. 7. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the guide means includes a conductive guide wire and wherein the ferromagnetic device is mounted for linear movement within the cavity on the conductive guide wire, the ferromagnetic device being electrically coupled to both the guide wire and the sensor element in the magnetic field. 8. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the guide means is a conductive wire on which the ferromagnetic device is supported and electrically coupled. 9. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the body is a piston mounted for linear movement within a cylinder. 10. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the assembly further includes a hollow central guide member adapted to slidably support the body thereon and in which the ferromagnetic device is supported for movement therein. 11. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the generating means includes a magnet assembly having a magnet sandwiched between a pair of side plates having outer peripheral surfaces separated by an air gap distance, B. 12. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the generating means includes an axi-symmetric magnet. 13. The sensor as claimed in claim 11 wherein the ferromagnetic device is gold plated. 14. The sensor as claimed in claim 11 wherein the ferromagnetic device is spherical and has a diameter, D. 15. The sensor as claimed in claim 11 wherein the ferromagnetic device is cylindrical and has a length, L. 16. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the generating means includes a magnet and wherein the sensor element is external to the magnet. 17. The sensor as claimed in claim 14 wherein D is substantially equal to B. 18. The sensor as claimed in claim 15 wherein L is substantially equal to B. 19. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 or claim 16 wherein the assembly further includes a hollow guide member in which the ferromagnetic device is supported for movement therein and wherein the hollow guide member is shielded with an electrically conductive and grounded shroud. 20. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the magnetic field between the ferromagnetic device and the generating means maintains electrical contact between the ferromagnetic device and the sensor element during relative movement of the ferromagnetic device. 21. The sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein the magnetic field between the ferromagnetic device and the generating means maintains electrical contact between the ferromagnetic device and the guide means during relative movement of the ferromagnetic device. 22. A non-contact sensor for sensing the linear position of a body which moves linearly in an environment, the sensor comprising an assembly including a cavity insulated from the environment and generating means for generating a magnetic field within the cavity, the generating means being adapted to be coupled to the body to move linearly therewith, the assembly including a sensor element disposed within the cavity and a ferromagnetic device supported for linear movement within the cavity to move in response to movement of the generating means and its magnetic field along the sensor element wherein the sensor is adapted to provide a signal representative of the position of the body and wherein the assembly further includes a conductive guide wire and wherein the ferromagnetic device is conductive and is mounted for linear movement within the cavity on the conductive guide wire, the ferromagnetic device being electrically coupled to both the guide wire and the sensor element in the magnetic field. 23. A non-contact sensor for sensing the linear position of a body which moves linearly in an environment, the sensor comprising an assembly including a cavity insulated from the environment and generating means for generating a magnetic field within the cavity, the generating means being adapted to be coupled to the body to move linearly therewith, the assembly including a sensor element disposed within the cavity and a ferromagnetic device supported for linear movement within the cavity to move in response to movement of the generating means and its magnetic field along the sensor element wherein the sensor is adapted to provide a signal representative of the position of the body wherein the assembly includes a conductive guide wire and wherein the ferromagnetic device is also conductive and is supported for linear movement on the conductive guide wire and is electrically coupled to the guide wire. 24. A non-contact sensor for sensing the linear position of a body which moves linearly in an environment, the sensor comprising an assembly including a cavity insulated from the environment and generating means for generating a magnetic field within the cavity, the generating means being adapted to be coupled to the body to move linearly therewith, the assembly including a sensor element disposed within the cavity and a ferromagnetic device supported for linear movement within the cavity to move in response to movement of the generating means and its magnetic field along the sensor element and wherein the generating means includes a magnet assembly having a magnet sandwiched between a pair of side plates having outer peripheral surfaces separated by an air gap distance, B. 25. A non-contact sensor for sensing the linear position of a body which moves linearly in an environment, the sensor comprising an assembly including a cavity insulated from the environment and generating means for generating a magnetic field within the cavity, the generating means being adapted to be coupled to the body to move linearly therewith, the assembly including a sensor element disposed within the cavity and a ferromagnetic device supported for linear movement within the cavity to move in response to movement of the generating means and its magnetic field along the sensor element wherein the generating means includes an axi-symmetric magnet. 