The invention addresses the problem of undesirble emotional states in general, and during the performance of public speaking in particular. The user of the invention wears a microphone and earphones. The invention digitally alters how the user hears his or her voice, to sound as if the user is in a different emotional state. The user may choose preprogrammed emotional states such as confident authority or happy enthusiasm. The degree of the emotion may also be selected. The result is that the user's emotional state is altered when he or she speaks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, comprising the steps of: storing information in a predefined array, each array element containing data representing an emotional state identifiable to the speaker and at least one modifiable audio characteristic, each of said emotional states being uniquely addressable through an entry in said predefined array; selecting a desired entry from said predefined array representing a speaker's desired emotional state; detecting the speaker's voice with a transducer; converting the output of said transducer to a first output signal; altering said first output signal in accordance with said modifiable audio characteristic from said predefined array; converting said altered signal to an audio signal perceptible by said speaker; and providing said perceptible audio signal to a plurality of the speaker's ears, whereby the speaker's desired emotional state is altered by the process of hearing his or her own altered voice. 2. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said altered audio signal is provided to a plurality of the speaker's ears within one second of the speaker speaking. 3. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of providing said audio signal to the speaker's ear includes the step of preventing said audio signal from being heard by any person other than the speaker. 4. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of altering said first output signal comprises the step of modifying the frequency of said audio signal in accordance with a predefined multiplier prior to passing the audio signal to the speaker's ear. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the predefined frequency multiplier is a number less than one, producing an altered audio signal lower in pitch. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the predefined frequency multiplier is a number greater than one, producing an altered audio signal higher in pitch. 7. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of altering said first output signal comprises the step of delaying said audio signal for a predetermined period of time prior to passing the audio signal to the speaker's ear. 8. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 7, wherein the step of delaying said audio signal further comprises the step of repeating and diminishing said delayed audio signal in an echo pattern. 9. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 7, wherein the step of delaying said audio signal further comprises the step of modulating the pitch of the delayed signal according to a predetermined pattern, to produce a fuller-sounding chorus-like altered audio signal. 10. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 9, wherein the step of delaying and modulating the pitch of said audio signal further comprises the step of feeding back and combining the delayed and modulated audio signal with the first audio signal, producing a ringing overtone in the altered audio signal. 11. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of coupling said audio signal to the speaker's ears further comprises the step of providing said audio signal alternately to each ear of the speaker for a predetermined period of time. 12. The method to alter the emotional state of a person who is speaking, as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of altering said first output signal comprises the step of producing the sum and difference of the first audio signal and a predetermined second audio signal, prior to passing the audio signal to the speaker's ear, producing a robotic-sounding altered audio signal. 