A production line tracking and quality control system and method thereof comprises a series of pallets for carrying one or more first contact lens mold halves or one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves throughout a contact lens fabrication facility. Each pallet of the series is transported on a conveyor device throughout the fabrication facility, and each pallet includes a unique identifying code. The fabrication facility includes one or more process stations and a control device provides real time monitoring of contact lens fabrication processes at the one or more process stations. The control device further includes a tracking device for identifying the unique code of each of the pallets at one or more process stations while continually receiving monitored process condition values at each station. For each identified pallet, the control device generates process status information for memory storage in the form of a reject flag, when the process conditions are out of predetermined limits, or, an acceptance flag indicating that process conditions are within predetermined limits. The process status information is updated when the pallets are identified and the status of each pallet is checked when entering or exiting a process station.
Claims We claim: 1. A production line tracking and quality control system comprising: (a) a plurality of pallets, each of said pallets including a unique identification code and being operable to carry a group of one or more first contact lens mold halves or a group of one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves such that a single one of said pallets carries a respective one of said groups of contact lens mold halves throughout a contact lens fabrication facility; (b) a conveyor for transporting said pallets throughout said contact lens fabrication facility, said fabrication facility including one or more process stations; and (c) a controller separate from said pallets for providing real time monitoring of contact lens fabrication processes at said one or more process stations, said controller including means for identifying said unique identification code of each of said pallets at each of said one or more process stations, said controller receiving process condition values from said stations and generating process status information for each identified pallet responsive to process condition values received from said process stations, wherein said controller includes memory storage means having unique memory locations for storing said process status information corresponding to each of said pallets. 2. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 1 wherein said process status information comprises a reject flag when said process condition values are out of predetermined limits. 3. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 2 wherein said controller enables said conveyor to specifically reject and remove from further processing each identified pallet having process status information in the form of a reject flag. 4. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 1 wherein said controller generates time stamp information indicating a specific time each pallet is identified by said means for identifying said unique identification code at each said one or more process stations of said facility, each said time stamp information additionally stored in said unique memory location corresponding to each said identified pallet. 5. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 4 wherein said contact lens fabrication facility includes first means for depositing said one or more first contact lens mold halves on some of said pallets and second means for depositing said one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves on others of said pallets, said controller generating an initial time stamp value corresponding to the time of each deposit of said first and complementary second mold halves on their respective pallets. 6. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 5 wherein said one or more first contact lens mold halves and one or more complementary second contact lens mold halves are deposited on their respective pallets in an ambient air environment. 7. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 2 wherein said process status information further comprises an acceptance flag indicating that an identified pallet is acceptable for further processing at another station when said received process condition values are within predetermined limits. 8. The production line tracking and control system according to claim 1 wherein said means for identifying said unique identification code comprises a bar code reader. 9. A method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility, said fabrication facility including one or more process stations and a plurality of pallets for carrying contact lens mold portions throughout said fabrication facility, each of said plurality of pallets including a unique identification code, said method comprising the steps of: (a) placing a group of one or more contact lens mold portions onto each of said pallets such that each of said pallets carries a respective one of said groups of contact lens mold portions throughout said fabrication facility; (b) identifying said unique identification code of each of said pallets at each said one or more process stations of said facility; (c) monitoring contact lens fabrication processes at said one or more process stations and communicating process condition values at each said one or more stations to a controller, said controller being separate from said pallets; (d) generating process status information for each identified pallet responsive to process condition values received by said controller from said process stations; and (e) storing said process status information corresponding to each identified pallet in a memory storage means having unique memory locations corresponding to each said pallet. 10. The method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility according to claim 9 further including the step of generating time stamp information indicating a specific time each pallet identification code is identified at each said one or more process stations of said facility, and, storing each said time stamp information in one of said unique memory locations corresponding to each said identified pallet. 11. The method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility according to claim 9 further including the step of tracking a predetermined number of identified pallets within a process station of said facility at any one point in time, and storing the identity of each said pallet in one of said unique memory locations. 12. The method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility according to claim 9 wherein step (d) includes the step of generating a reject flag when said process condition values are out of predetermined limits. 13. The method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility according to claim 12 wherein step (d) further includes the step of generating an acceptance flag indicating that an identified pallet is acceptable for further processing at a subsequent said one or more stations when said process condition values are within predetermined limits. 14. The method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility according to claim 12 wherein said facility includes a conveyor for transporting said pallets throughout said facility, said method further including the step of rejecting specific pallets having process status information in the form of a reject flag by enabling said conveyor to remove said pallets at at least one predetermined rejection point. 15. The method of quality control for a contact lens fabrication facility according to claim 9 wherein said step of identifying said unique identification code is performed by a bar code reader. 