An aerospace hardware package is used to salvage derelicts in space. The package incorporates at least the subsystems required to salvage and reuse portions of previously discarded launch vehicle components and other derelict objects in space. The salvaged items include the external tank of the space shuttle, and the Russian-made ENERGIA rocket system in two forms. The salvaged hardware is capable of contributing mass, length, exterior surface, strongback, gravity gradient stability, interior volumes, base metal sources and stability with the addition of a salvage subsystems package. The package supplies capabilities such as power and communications and later evolves toward more complex services taking full advantage of the salvaged hardware's attributes to reduce the cost and difficulty of space operations.
Claims Having thus described my invention, what I claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A method of placing a separate salvage subsystem package on a discarded orbiting object for salvaging the discarded orbiting object, the method comprising the steps of: identifying a discarded orbiting object; launching the separate salvage subsystem package including a compressed truss apparatus; coupling the salvage subsystem package and compressed truss apparatus to the discarded orbiting object; extending the compressed truss apparatus to provide a utility network with attachment points for payloads at a plurality of nodes for connection to a corresponding plurality of control systems provided by the salvage subsystem package; and activating and controlling the plurality of control systems provided by the salvage subsystem package. 2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the coupling step includes attaching the salvage subsystem to a pre-existing attachment means on said discarded orbiting object. 3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the coupling step further includes the step of installing an attachment means on said discarded orbiting object prior to coupling the salvage subsystem package to the discarded orbiting object. 4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the coupling step couples the salvage subsystem package to a pre-existing salvage package on said discarded orbiting object. 5. The method as in claim 1, wherein the activating and controlling step includes providing attitude control for the discarded orbiting object. 6. The method as in claim 5, wherein the step of providing attitude control includes providing an interface between the salvage subsystem package and an existing attitude control means on said discarded orbiting object. 7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the activating and controlling step includes providing propulsion control of the discarded orbiting object. 8. The method as in claim 7, wherein the step of providing propulsion control includes providing an interface between the salvage subsystem package and an existing propulsion means on said discarded orbiting object. 9. The method as in claim 1, wherein the activating and controlling step includes providing communications control of the discarded orbiting object. 10. The method as in claim 9, wherein the step of providing communications control includes providing an interface between the salvage subsystem package and an existing communications control means on said discarded orbiting object. 11. The method as in claim 1, wherein the activating and controlling step includes supplying electrical power control to the discarded orbiting object. 12. A salvage subsystem package attached to a discarded orbiting object for salvaging the discarded orbiting object, the package comprising: attitude control means for controlling the attitude of the discarded orbiting object; communications means for controlling the communications of the discarded orbiting object; power means for supplying electrical power to the discarded orbiting object; and extendable truss means, extendable to provide a utility network with attachment points for payloads at a plurality of nodes for connection to at least one of the group consisting OF said attitude control means, said communication means, and said power means. 13. The apparatus as in claim 12, further comprising propulsion means for controlling the propulsion of the discarded orbiting object. 14. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said discarded orbiting object is an external tank of an aerospace vehicle in orbit and said salvage subsystem package is coupled to an attachment device on said external tank. 15. The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein said salvage subsystem package is attached in an aft shroud of said external tank. 16. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said discarded orbiting object is a discarded component of an aerospace launch vehicle or satellite capable of salvage in orbit and said salvage subsystem package is coupled to an attachment device on said aerospace launch vehicle or satellite. 17. The apparatus as in claim 12, further comprising means for expanding an on-board subsystems salvage package for controlling the discarded orbiting object. 18. The apparatus as in claim 12, further comprising a plug in/plug out means from a payload to said utility network to transfer power and communications. 