A metering unit (12) is attached to the robot (10) for providing two polymeric materials to a dispenser/mixer module (14) attached to the end of the robot arm (16). The metering unit includes piston (44) located concentrically about the shaft (42) of a dual actuating piston assembly (36) for providing the two polymeric materials in a fixed ratio. A variable rate dispenser (62) is provided for compensating for changes in robot velocity and/or viscosity changes.
Claims It is claimed: 1. An apparatus for mixing and dispensing specified amounts of mixed first and second viscous fluid materials comprising: a multi-chamber assembly having first, second, and third axially aligned spaced apart chambers, the third chamber disposed between the first and second chambers and including first, second, and third piston means disposed respectively within the first, second and third chambers; a piston rod mounted for reciprocal movement between the first and second piston means; an inlet means, carried by the first chamber and adapted for coupling to a source of a pressurized first fluid material; an inlet means, carried by the third chamber and adapted for coupling to a source of a pressurized second fluid material; a first fluid passageway for coupling the first and second chambers together to permit a flow of the first fluid material from the first chamber to the second chamber; the second and third chambers each carrying a discharge outlet; a mixing and dispensing means coupled to the outlets of both the second and third chambers to receive both first and second fluid material from the respective second and third chambers, to intermix the first and second fluid materials and to dispense the resultant mixture thereof; means for selectively permitting or preventing the flow of the first material from the first chamber to the second chamber; wherein the first, second and third pistons are capable of movement to a first position in response to a fluid pressure of the first and second fluid materials on the second and third piston means respectively for filling the second and third chambers with first and second fluid materials respectively; and wherein the first, second and third pistons are capable of movement to a second position in response to fluid pressure of the first fluid material on the first piston means to cause simultaneous dispensing of the first fluid material from the second chamber and the second fluid respective discharge outlet of each chamber to the mixing and material from the third chamber through the dispensing means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a means, responsive to a signal, for regulating the flow rate of the fluid materials. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a means for regulating the flow rate of the fluid materials and for compensating for viscosity changes in the fluid materials. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a means, coupled to the discharge outlet of the second chamber and coupled to the mixing and dispensing means, for selectively preventing the flow of the first material therethrough and for varying the flow rate of the first material therethrough. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the piston rod extends through the third fluid chamber; and the third piston means includes a piston head and a shaft, each of which is concentric with and adapted for reciprocal motion along the piston rod, and said shaft extending from the third fluid chamber, and capable of being juxtaposed with the first piston means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the piston rod is attached to the first and second piston means. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein a piston head of each piston means has a smaller diameter than the respective fluid chamber, to allow fluid to pass along an axis of movement of a piston between the first and second positions. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first and second piston means each include a piston head extending from the respective fluid chamber; the piston rod extends through the third fluid chamber; the third piston means includes a stepped shaft disposed about, and capable of reciprocal movement along the piston rod, said stepped shaft extending from the third fluid chamber and capable of being juxtaposed to a end of the first piston means; and further comprising a means for regulating the flow of the fluid materials and for compensating for changes in viscosity. 9. A two-component mixing and dispensing system for mixing and dispensing two different liquid polymeric materials which react chemically with one another when combined, said system comprising: the multi-chamber assembly of claims, coupled to a first and second source of fluid material, for providing a supply of first and said second materials in a fixed ratio; a dispenser, for mixing the first and second materials together to form a mixture, and for dispensing the mixture onto a substrate; a means for controlling the flow rate of the mixture dispensed from said dispenser by varying the flow rate of one of the materials without varying the ratio of the first and second materials of the mixture. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the means for controlling the flow rate of the dispensed mixture comprises: a means for maintaining the flow rate of at least said first fluid material, downstream of the means for providing the supply of the first and second materials, at a first flow rate during the dispensing of the mixture and in response to the control signal, maintaining the flow rate of the first material at a second flow rate. 11. The system of claim 10 including a means to generate a control signal responsive to a driving signal. 12. The system of claim 10 further including a means for determining at least the amount of the first material supplied to the dispenser; and a means for adjusting the control signal in accordance with at least the amount of the first fluid material supplied to the dispenser and a desired amount of material to be dispensed. 13. The system of claim 9 wherein the dispenser is adapted for attachment to an end of an arm of a robot; and wherein the means for supplying the first and second materials and the means for controlling the flow rate are adapted for attachment at a location in proximity to the robot arm. 14. The system of claim 9 wherein said means for providing a supply of said first and second materials in a fixed ratio comprises the apparatus of claim 8. 15. An apparatus for dispensing viscous fluid materials comprising: a first fluid chamber, adapted for receiving a source of a pressurized first fluid material, and having a first piston disposed within the chamber and mounted for reciprocal movement therein between a fill position and a dispense position; a second fluid chamber separate and spaced apart from the first chamber and adapted for receiving a source of a pressurized second fluid material and having a second piston disposed within the chamber and mounted for reciprocal movement therein between a fill position and a dispense position, wherein the reciprocal movement of the first piston is in axial alignment with the reciprocal movement of the second piston and wherein the first and second pistons are independently moved into the fill position by pressure from the respective first and second fluid materials; pressure means to exert axial force against the ends of the first and second pistons which are opposite to the ends which lie within the first and second fluid chambers to simultaneously move both pistons from the fill position to the dispense position; and a means for coupling the first and second pistons during dispensing such as to maintain a fixed ratio of material dispensed from each chamber and for decoupling the pistons from one another during refilling. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein each piston extends from the respective fluid chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 further including a piston rod extending through an axial hole through the second piston and engaging the first piston, said piston rod and second piston adapted to simultaneously receive force from the pressure means to move both the first and second pistons to the dispense position. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 further including a means, coupled to one of said chambers, for performing at least one of the following: a) adjusting the flow rate of the fluids; and b) compensating of viscosity changes of the fluids. 