An apparatus in accordance with the present invention provides a single or multi-layer coating to the surface of a plurality of substrates. The apparatus may include a plurality of buffer and sputtering chambers, and an input end and an output end, wherein said substrates are transported through said chambers of said apparatus at varying rates of speed such that the rate of speed of a pallet from said input end to said output end is a constant for each of said plurality of pallets. A high throughput sputtering apparatus having a plurality of integrally matched components in accordance with the present invention may further include means for transporting a plurality of substrates through said sputtering chambers at variable velocities; means for reducing the ambient pressure within said sputtering chambers to a vacuum level within a pressure range sufficient to enable sputtering operation; means for heating said plurality of substrates to a temperature conducive to sputtering said coatings thereon, said means for heating providing a substantially uniform temperature profile over the surface of said substrates; and control means for providing control signals to and for receiving feedback input from, said sputtering chambers, means for transporting, means for reducing, and means for heating, said control means being programmable for allowing control over said means for sputtering, means for transporting, means for reducing and means for heating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sputtering apparatus for providing a single or multi-layer coating to the surface of a plurality of substrates, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of chambers; an input end and an output end; and a plurality of pallets for carrying substrates of said plurality of substrates from said input end to said output end, said pallet including: a plurality of notches extending inward from edges of the pallet; a plurality of slots including arcuate sections concentric with the substrate-carrying region to which it is closest; and at least one cavity near at least one edge portion of the pallet; said plurality of notches, said plurality of slots, and said at least one cavity provided for preventing warping of said pallet across a width of said pallet and along a length of said pallet by providing a space into which said pallet may expand upon an increase in pallet temperature. 2. A sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least 56 substrate-carrying regions configured to securely support a plurality of 95 mm diameter disk substrates. 3. A sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least 99 substrate-carrying regions configured to securely support a plurality of 65 mm diameter disk substrates. 4. A sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising at least 149 substrate carrying regions configured to securely support a plurality of 48 mm diameter disk substrates. 5. A pallet for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus, comprising: a plurality of substrate-carrying regions for securely supporting the plurality of substrates, which plurality of substrate-carrying regions are provided in the pallet such that lines connecting the centers of three adjacent substrate-carrying regions of said plurality of substrate-carrying regions approximate an equilateral triangle so as to define a hexagonal orientation of said substrate-carrying regions; a plurality of notches extending inward from edges of the pallet; a plurality of slots including arcuate sections concentric with the substrate-carrying region to which it is closest; and at least one cavity near at least one edge portion of the pallet; said plurality of notches, said plurality of slots, and said at least one cavity provided for preventing warping of the pallet across a width of the pallet and along a length of the pallet by providing a space into which the pallet may expand upon an increase in pallet temperature. 6. A pallet for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the pallet is comprised of the same material as the plurality of substrates. 7. A pallet for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the pallet is comprised of aluminum. 8. A pallet for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 5, further comprising a plurality of holes for receiving a sensor from a substrate loading or unloading robot, enabling the robot to orient itself with respect to the substrate-carrying regions for loading or unloading the substrates therein. 9. A pallet for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein said substrate-carrying regions are substantially circular. 10. A pallet for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said substrate-carrying region further comprises: a groove in between a front surface and a back surface of the pallet and along a bottom portion of said substrate-carrying region for supporting a substrate of the plurality of substrates at a bottom portion of said substrate, and a lip at the back surface of the pallet and along a top portion of said substrate-carrying region for supporting said substrate at a top portion of said substrate. 11. A pallet having a front portion and a back portion for transporting a plurality of substrates through a sputtering apparatus, comprising: a plurality of circular substrate-carrying regions provided in the pallet such that lines connecting the centers of three adjacent substrate-carrying regions of said plurality of substrate-carrying regions approximate an equilateral triangle so as to define a hexagonal orientation of said substrate-carrying regions, said plurality of substrate-carrying regions further including: a groove in between the front surface and the back surface of the pallet and along a bottom portion of said substrate-carrying region for supporting a substrate of the plurality of substrates at a bottom portion of said substrate, and a lip at the back surface of the pallet and along a top portion of said substrate-carrying region for supporting said substrate at a top portion of said substrate; a plurality of notches extending inward from edges of the pallet; a plurality of slots including arcuate sections concentric with the substrate-carrying region to which it is closest; and at least one cavity near at least one edge portion of the pallet; said plurality of notches, said plurality of slots, and said at least one cavity provided for preventing warping of the pallet across a width of the pallet and along a length of the pallet by providing a space into which the pallet may expand upon an increase in pallet temperature. 