A shield (100) having a detachable grasp support member (140) is provided. The shield (100) includes a hollowed frame (110) having first and second surfaces (112, 114), and a cavity (130) extending from the first surface (112) to the second surface (114). A detachable grasp support member (140) is attached to the hollowed frame (110) and extends across at least a portion of the cavity (130). A second shield member (160) mounts onto the frame (110) and covers the cavity (130) along the first surface (112) to complete the shield (100).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shield, comprising: a first shield member comprising a hollowed frame having first and second surfaces, and a cavity extending from the first surface to the second surface; a detachable grasp support member attached to the hollowed frame and extending across at least a portion of the cavity, the grasp support member being integrally formed on the first shield member, and having first and second opposing ends, the first and second opposing ends being attached to the first shield member by first and second weakened junctures, respectively; and a second shield member mounted on the first shield member and covering the cavity about the first surface. 2. The shield of claim 1, wherein the grasp support member is scored at the junctures to aid in detachment from the first shield member. 3. The shield of claim 1, wherein the first shield member has a first retention support, and the second shield member has a second retention support for mating with the first retention support. 4. A two-piece shield for shielding components on an electronic assembly, the shield comprising: a first shield member comprising a walled enclosure having opposing first and second surfaces and a cavity extending from the first surface to the second surface; a grasp support member integrally formed on the first shield member and extending across a portion of the cavity along the first surface, the grasp support member being planar and having weakened portions to aid in detachment from the first shield member, the grasp support member having a portion with an expanded surface area; and a second shield member mounted on the first shield member and covering the cavity about the first surface. 5. A shield comprising a mount platform, and a cover for mounting onto the mount platform, wherein: the mount platform comprises: a hollowed frame having first and second surfaces and a cavity extending from the first surface to the second surface; a detachable bridge member attached to the hollowed frame and extending across at least a portion of the cavity, wherein the bridge member has an end attached to the hollowed frame by a weakened juncture; and the cover is formed to securely mount onto the mount platform such that the cavity about the first surface is covered. 6. The shield of claim 5, wherein the bridge member has portion having an expanded surface area. 7. The shield of claim 5, wherein the bridge member is scored at the juncture to aid in detachment from the hollowed frame. 8. A radio, comprising electronic assembly housing communication circuitry for communicating over a radio frequency channel, the electronic assembly including a shield, the shield comprising: a first shield member comprising a hollowed frame having first and second surfaces, and a cavity extending from the first surface to the second surface; a detachable grasp support member attached to the hollowed frame and extending across at least a portion of the cavity, the grasp support member being integrally formed on the first shield member, and having first and second opposing ends, the first and second opposing ends being attached to the first shield member by first and second weakened junctures, respectively; and a second shield member mounted on the first shield member and covering the cavity about the first surface. 