A method for manufacturing a molded waveguide (50) is provided. A first cladding layer (20) is provided. Channels (21) are formed in the first cladding layer (20). A second cladding layer (40) is subsequently provided. The channels (21) in the first cladding layer (20) are then filled with an optically transparent polymer. The second cladding layer (40) is subsequently affixed over the channels (21) of the first cladding layer (20), thereby enclosing the channels (21).
Claims We claim: 1. A molded waveguide comprising: a first molded cladding layer having a plurality of channels with some of the plurality of channels having adiabatic tapering; a second molded cladding layer; and an adhesive core material, wherein the adhesive core material fills the plurality of channels securing and covering the plurality of channels of the first molded cladding layer with the second molded cladding layer, thereby making a molded waveguide; an alignment guide placed on the cladding region of the molded waveguide for alignment of an optical connector. 2. A molded split waveguide comprising: a first cladding layer having an adiabatic configured channel; a second cladding layer affixed to the first cladding layer with an optically transparent polymer that forms a core region add fills the adiabatic configured channel, thereby making a molded split waveguide: and an alignment guide placed on the cladding region of the molded split waveguide for alignment of an optical connector. 3. An adiabatic molded waveguide comprising: a first molded cladding layer having a first end, and a second end; a plurality of channels with some of the plurality of channels extending from the first end of the first molded cladding layer to the second end of the first molded cladding layer and with some of the plurality of channels having adiabatic tapering at the first end of the first molded cladding layer; a second molded cladding layer; and an adhesive core material, wherein the adhesive core material fills the plurality of channels securing and covering the plurality of channels of the first molded cladding layer with the second molded cladding layer, thereby making an adiabatic molded waveguide. 4. An adiabatic tapered waveguide as claimed in claim 3 further including an alignment guide located on the first cladding layer of the adiabatic molded waveguide. 