A robot installation for painting objects inside a painting booth (CA) having walls (WA, WB) isolating the object (AU) to be painted from the surroundings, is suitably integrated in the booth walls in order to save interior booth space and achieve a robot operation better adapted to the painting process. The installation includes at least one main robot shaft (RS) associated with a painting tool and protruding through at least one slot (LS) penetrating the booth walls for servo-controlled movements along such slots and possibly also in the direction of and/or about the axis of the shaft. Servo-drive means are disposed for controlling the robot shaft movements in accordance with a preprogrammed motional pattern for the painting tool, including tracking of a travelling object to be painted. The slot is disposed on a rotatable element e.g., a disk or cylinder (CD,SC) supported in or on the booth walls, and the servo-drive means includes means for controlling the rotational movements of the rotatable element in accordance with a preprogrammed motional pattern.
Claims I claim: 1. A painting booth and robotic installation for painting of objects inside the booth, the booth having walls for isolating an object to be painted from the surroundings, at least one of said walls including at least one elongate slot penetrating the wall, said robotic installation comprising at least one robot shaft connected to a painting tool and protruding through said at least one slot for robotic controlled servo-controlled movements at least along the length of said slot, and servo-drive means positioned and arranged for controlling said robot shaft movements in accordance with a preprogrammed movement pattern for said painting tool; said slot being disposed on a rotatable element connected to the at least one wall and having a slot length extending generally parallel to the at least one wall, the servo-drive means comprising means positioned and arranged for controlling the rotational movements of said rotatable element in accordance with a preprogrammed movement pattern. 2. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein said rotatable element comprises a circular disc disposed for rotational movements in a plane extending parallel or in coincidence with the plane of said booth wall, said slot length extending generally along a diameter of said disc. 3. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein said rotatable element comprises a hollow cylinder disposed for rotational movement about an axis extending parallel with said wall, said robot shaft protruding through said slot, said slot length extending substantially parallel with said rotational axis. 4. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 3, wherein the robot shaft is disposed for translational movements along the slot length under the control of the servo-drive means. 5. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 3, wherein the robot shaft is disposed for pivotal movements in the slot, and is controlled by the servo-drive means at least about a pivot axis located inside the hollow cylinder. 6. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 5, wherein the servo-drive means is located within said hollow cylinder and is positioned and arranged arranged to actuate the movements of said robot shaft in the slot by means of pivotal motions about at least two axes. 7. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 6, wherein the robot shaft is connected with the painting tool through a manipulator link means having at least one axis of motion. 8. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 5, wherein the robot shaft is connected with the painting tool through a manipulator link means having at least one axis of motion. 9. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot shaft is connected with the painting tool through a manipulator link means having at least one axis of motion. 10. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robotic installation is positioned and arranged arranged to control movement of the robot shaft along and about the axis of the shaft. 11. The painting booth and robotic installation as claimed in claim 9, wherein the connection of the robot shaft with the painting tool is arranged to enable movement of the manipulator link means about at least three axes of motion. 