A method and apparatus for fabricating known good semiconductor dice are provided. The method includes the steps of: testing the gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to singulate a die; and then testing the die by assembly in a carrier having an interconnect adapted to establish electrical communication between the bond pads on the die and external test circuitry. The interconnect for the carrier can be formed using different contact technologies including: thick film contact members on a rigid substrate; self-limiting contact members on a silicon substrate; or microbump contact members with a textured surface. During assembly of the carrier, the die and interconnect are optically aligned and placed into contact with a predetermined contact force. This establishes an electrical connection between the contact members on the interconnect and the bond pads of the die. In the assembled carrier the die and interconnect are biased together by a force distribution mechanism that includes a bridge clamp, a pressure plate and a spring clip. Following testing of the die, the carrier is disassembled and the tested die is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing a semiconductor die comprising: providing the die; providing a carrier with an electrical connector for electrical connection to test circuitry; providing an interconnect for the carrier, said interconnect including a contact member corresponding to a contact location on the die, said contact member in electrical communication with the electrical connector on the carrier; optically aligning the contact member on the interconnect with the contact location on the die; assembling the carrier with the die in contact with the interconnect and attaching a force distribution mechanism to the carrier; testing the die using the carrier; and separating the tested die from the carrier. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising identifying the carrier for tracking the die during the testing step. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising forming the contact member in a shape for limiting a penetration depth into the contact location. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising providing a second interconnect that is interchangeable with the interconnect to permit testing of different types of semiconductor dice using the carrier. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein aligning the contact member with the contact location is with an assembly tool having a vacuum conduit for the die. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein optically aligning the contact member on the die with the contact location on the interconnect is with an aligner bonder. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein assembling and disassembling the carrier is with an apparatus having an optical alignment system. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein the interconnect includes contact members selected from the group consisting of raised silicon contact member having penetrating blades and microbump contact members. 9. A method for fabricating a semiconductor die comprising: providing the die; providing a carrier for holding the die, said carrier including an external connector electrically connectable to test circuitry and a force distribution mechanism for retaining the die within the carrier; providing an interconnect for the carrier, said interconnect including a raised contact member for contacting a contact location on the die to establish an electrical connection therewith, said contact member in electrical communication with the external connector; optically aligning the contact member with the contact location; attaching the force distribution mechanism to the carrier to establish the electrical connection and to retain the die within the carrier in contact with the interconnect; testing the die using test circuitry electrically attached to the external connector on the carrier; and removing the tested die from the carrier. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 and further comprising identifying the carrier by attaching a code thereto. 11. The method as recited in claim 9 and further comprising providing a second interconnect interchangeable with the interconnect. 12. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the contact member includes a penetrating projection for penetrating the contact location on the die to a predetermined depth. 13. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the contact member is formed using an ultrasonic forging process. 14. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the contact member is formed as a microbump mounted on tape attached to a substrate. 15. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein attaching the force distribution mechanism to the carrier is with an assembly tool. 16. A method for fabricating a known good semiconductor die comprising: testing a gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to separate the die; providing a carrier for holding the die including a connector for connection to external test circuitry and a force distribution mechanism for retaining the die within the carrier; providing an interconnect including a substrate having a contact member adapted to provide a temporary electrical connection to the die; assembling the die with the carrier by optically aligning the die and the interconnect, then placing the die and the interconnect in contact to establish an electrical connection between the contact member and a contact location on the die; testing the die by connecting external circuitry to the connector on the carrier; and separating the tested die from carrier. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the force distribution mechanism includes a bridge clamp, a spring and a pressure plate. 18. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the contact member is a raised member with a penetrating projection formed by the substrate. 19. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the contact member is a microbump mounted on tape attached to the substrate with an adhesive layer. 20. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the carrier is assembled using an assembly apparatus that includes a vision alignment system. 21. A method for manufacturing semiconductor dice comprising: providing a bare die; providing an interconnect for making a temporary electrical connection with the die, said interconnect including a microbump contact member mounted on tape and attached to a substrate; aligning the contact member with a contact location on the die; biasing the die against the interconnect; testing the die by applying test signals through the contact member to the contact location; and separating the tested die from the interconnect. 22. The method as claimed in claim 21 and wherein the interconnect is mounted to a temporary carrier for the die. 23. The method as claimed in claim 22 and wherein the carrier includes a force distribution mechanism for biasing the die. 24. The method as claimed in 23 and wherein aligning the contact member is with optical alignment. 25. The method as claimed in claim 25 and wherein an assembly apparatus aligns the contact member and attaches the force distribution mechanism to the carrier. 