A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). The teleoperator system comprises a endoscope surgical instrument suited for endoscopic surgery. The surgical instrument comprises a control servomechanism which operates an insertion section. The insertion section comprises a forearm, a wrist and an end effector. The end effector is a modified surgical instrument such as retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades and irrigators. The control section contains motors and linkages which operate the insertion section with five or more degrees of freedom. The control section inserts, retracts, pivots and rotates the forearm with four degrees of freedom about axes that all intersect adjacent a small incision through which the insertion section is introduced to the patient. The control section also pivots the wrist with at least one degree of freedom relative to the forearm and operates the end effector. The surgical manipulator provides superior flexibility in performing endoscopic procedures compared to standard rigid endoscopic instruments and is adapted for teleoperator control.
Claims I claim: 1. An endoscopic surgical instrument comprising a control section and an insertion section wherein: the insertion section is insertable into a patient through a small incision to a location adjacent a worksite in the patient; the insertion section comprises a rigid forearm link, a wrist link and an end effector wherein: the forearm link has a proximal end, a distal end and a forearm axis extending longitudinally from the proximal end of the forearm link to the distal end of the forearm link; the wrist link has a proximal end and a distal end and a wrist axis extending from the proximal end of the wrist link to the distal end of the wrist link; the proximal end of the forearm link is connected to the control section, the distal end of the forearm link is connected to a pivotal wrist joint; and the proximal end of the wrist link is connected to the pivotal wrist joint and the distal end of the wrist link is connected to the end effector; and the control section comprises a plurality of control motors and linkages to operate the insertion section with at least five degrees of freedom including: insertion and retraction of the forearm link along the forearm axis and through the small incision; rotation of the forearm link about the forearm axis; pivotal motion of the forearm link about a first pivotal axis and a second pivotal axis which are perpendicular to each other and intersect the forearm axis at a pivot point between the proximal end of the forearm link and the distal end of the forearm link adjacent the small incision, wherein such pivotal motion of the forearm link avoids lateral movement of the forearm link at the pivot point; and pivotal motion of the wrist link relative to the forearm link. 2. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 1 wherein the wrist link comprises an inner link and an outer link and wherein the control section operates the insertion section with at least six degrees of freedom including movement of the outer link of the wrist link relative to the inner link of the wrist link. 3. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 2 wherein the outer link of the wrist link and the inner link of the wrist link are axially aligned and wherein the control section rotates the outer link relative to the inner link. 4. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 1 wherein the end effector comprises a first element and a second element and wherein the control section moves the first element relative to the second element. 5. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 2 wherein the end effector comprises a first element and a second element and wherein the control section moves the first element relative to the second element. 6. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 1 wherein the end effector comprises a surgical instrument head selected from the group of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades and irrigators. 7. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 1 wherein the control section is fixed to a support rail of a surgical table for support of a surgical manipulator during surgery. 8. A surgical method for endoscopic surgery comprising the steps of: providing an endoscopic surgical instrument comprising a control section and an insertion section; inserting the insertion section into a patient through a small incision to a location adjacent a worksite inside the patient, wherein the insertion section comprises a rigid forearm link, a wrist link and an end effector, and wherein: the forearm link has a proximal end, a digital end and a forearm axis extending longitudinally from the proximal end of the forearm link to the distal end of the forearm link; the wrist link has a proximal end and a distal end and a wrist axis extending from the proximal end of the wrist link to the distal end of the wrist link; the proximal end of the forearm link is connected to the control section, the distal end of the forearm link is connected to a pivotal wrist joint; the proximal end of the wrist link is connected to the pivotal wrist joint and the distal end of the wrist joint is connected to the end effector; and the forearm link is inserted distally along the forearm axis through the small incision; operating a servomechanism to rotate the forearm link about the forearm axis; operating the servomechanism to pivot the forearm link about a first pivotal axis and a second pivotal axis which are perpendicular to each other and intersect the forearm axis at a pivot point, the pivot point disposed between the proximal end of the forearm link and the distal end of the forearm link and adjacent the small incision, wherein such pivotal operation of the forearm link avoids lateral movement of the forearm link at the pivot point; operating the servomechanism to pivot the wrist link relative to the forearm; and manipulating human tissue with the end effector at the worksite inside the patient. 9. The method as described in claim 8 wherein: the endoscopic surgical instrument providing step comprises providing a surgical manipulator with a wrist link which comprises an inner link and an outer link; and the method comprises the additional step of operating the servomechanism to move the outer link of the wrist link relative to the inner link of the wrist link. 10. The method as described in claim 9 wherein: the surgical manipulator providing step comprises axially aligning the outer link of the wrist link; and the step of moving the outer link of the wrist link relative to the inner link of the wrist link comprises the step of operating the servomechanism to rotate the outer link relative to the inner link. 11. The method as described in claim 8 wherein: the end effector comprises a surgical instrument having a first element and a second element; and the method comprises the additional step of operating the servomechanism to move the first element relative to the second element. 12. The method as described in claim 9 wherein: the end effector comprises a surgical instrument having a first element and a second element; and the method comprises the additional step of operating the servomechanism to move the first element relative to the second element. 13. The surgical method as described in claim 8 wherein: the end effector comprises a surgical instrument head selected from the group consisting of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades and irrigators; and the step of manipulating human tissue comprises the step of actuating the surgical instrument head. 14. The surgical method as described in claim 8 further comprising the step of mounting the control section on a support rail of a surgical table for support of a surgical manipulator during surgery. 15. An endoscopic surgical instrument comprising an insertion section and a control section wherein: the insertion section is insertable into a patient through a small incision to a location adjacent a worksite in the patient; the insertion section comprises a rigid forearm link, a wrist link and an end effector wherein: the forearm link has a proximal end, a distal end and a forearm axis extending longitudinally from the proximal end of the forearm to the distal end of the forearm; the wrist link has a proximal end and a distal end and a wrist axis extending from the proximal end of the forearm to the distal end of the forearm; the proximal end of the forearm link is connected to the control section, the distal end of the forearm link is connected to a pivotal wrist joint; and the proximal end of the wrist link is connected to the pivotal wrist joint and the distal end of the wrist joint is connected to the end effector; and the control section comprises: means for inserting and retracting the forearm link along the forearm axis and through the small incision; means for rotating the forearm link about the forearm axis; means for pivoting the forearm link about a first pivotal axis and a second pivotal axis which are perpendicular to each other and intersect the forearm axis at a pivot point between the proximal end of the forearm link and the distal end of the forearm link adjacent the small incision, wherein such pivotal means avoids lateral movement of the forearm link at the pivot point; and means for pivoting the wrist link relative to the forearm link so as to control the angle between the forearm axis and the wrist axis. 16. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 15 wherein the wrist link comprises an inner link and an outer link and wherein the control section further comprises means for moving the outer link of the wrist link relative to the inner link of the wrist link. 17. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 16 wherein the outer link of the wrist link and the inner link of the wrist link are axially aligned and wherein the control section further comprises means for rotating the outer link relative to the inner link. 18. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 15 wherein the end effector comprises a first element and a second element and wherein the control section further comprises means for moving the first element relative to the second element. 19. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 16 wherein the end effector comprises a first element and a second element and wherein the control section further comprises means for moving the first element relative to the second element. 20. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 17 wherein the end effector comprising a surgical instrument head selected from the group of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades and irrigators. 21. The endoscopic surgical instrument as described in claim 17 wherein the control section further comprises means for mounting the control section on a support rail of a surgical table for supporting the endoscopic surgical instrument during a surgical procedure. 22. A minimally invasive surgery system comprising: a surgical station including a manipulating linkage supporting an actuatable end effector, the manipulator including an elongate rigid member having a proximal end and a distal end, wherein a joint is disposed between the distal end of the member and the end effector; a control station including an actuatable handle and a movable controller; and a servomechanism coupling the handle to the end effector so that actuation of the handle effects actuation of the end effector to manipulate tissue at an internal surgical site within a patient body, wherein the servomechanism moves the end effector within the internal surgical site in response to movement of the controller by pivoting the member about a first pivotal axis and a second pivotal axis which are perpendicular to each other and intersect at an insertion point between the proximal and distal ends of the member, wherein such pivotal movement of the member avoids lateral movement of the member at the insertion point, and by articulating the joint distally of the insertion point and within the patient body. 23. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 22, wherein the member comprises a rigid forearm link defining a forearm axis extending longitudinally from the proximal end of the forearm to the distal end of the forearm, and further comprising: a wrist link pivotally connected to the distal end of the forearm so as to pivot about a first axis which is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal forearm axis of the forearm link; wherein the end effector comprises an end effector member coupled to the wrist link by the joint so as to move about a second axis which is generally perpendicular to the first axis. 24. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 23, wherein said end effector includes a pair of jaw elements pivotally coupled to the wrist link. 25. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 22, wherein the servomechanism drives the proximal end of the member laterally relative to an axis of the member in first and second degrees of freedom, and wherein the servomechanism drives the proximal end of the member axially relative to the axis in a third degree of freedom in response to movement of the controller. 26. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 25, wherein the servomechanism pivots the end effector so as to orient the end effector within the patient body with a plurality of degrees of freedom relative to the member. 27. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 22, wherein the control station includes a station housing, wherein the controller comprises a linkage coupling the handle to the station housing, wherein the servomechanism repositions the end effector in the internal surgical site in response to repositioning of the handle in a station workspace, and wherein the servomechanism reorients then end effector in the internal surgical site in response to reorientation of the handle in the station workspace. 28. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 27, wherein the surgical station includes an endoscope oriented toward the end effector, wherein the control station includes a display coupled to the endoscope so as to produce an image of the end effector, and wherein the display is oriented relative to the handle and the servomechanism is programmed so that the image of the endoscope as viewed by an operator and the handle as held by a hand of the operator appear to the operator to define an integral body during positional and orientational movements of the handle and the end effector. 29. The minimally invasive surgery system of claim 22, wherein the end effector comprises a surgical instrument head selected from the group consisting of retractors, electrosurgical cutters, electrosurgical coagulators, forceps, needle holders, scissors, blades, and irrigators. 30. A minimally invasive surgery system comprising: a surgical station including a manipulator linkage supporting an end effector so that the end effector can move in three dimensions, the manipulator including an elongate rigid member having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the member movable in a plurality of proximal degrees of freedom, wherein a joint is disposed between the distal end of the member and the end effector, the joint providing a plurality of distal degrees of freedom; a control station including an actuatable handle and a movable controller, the actuatable handle movable in a three dimensional station workspace; and a servomechanism coupling the handle to the end effector so that actuation of the handle effects actuation of the end effector, the servomechanism coupled to the manipulator so that movement of the controller in the three dimensional space effects movement of the end effector in the surgical site by driving the proximal end in the proximal degrees of freedom, by pivoting the member about a first pivotal axis and a second pivotal axis which are perpendicular to each other and intersect at an insertion point between the proximal end and the distal end, wherein such pivotal movement of the member avoids lateral movement of the member at the insertion point, and by articulating the joint about the distal degrees of freedom. 31. A minimally invasive surgery method comprising: inserting a surgical end effector into an internal surgical site of a patient body through a percutaneous penetration, the end effector attached to a rigid member by a joint; actuating the end effector to manipulate tissue in response to actuation of a handle of a control station; moving the end effector at the surgical site with a servomechanism in response to movement of the handle by driving a proximal end of the member outside the patient body with the servomechanisms and by articulating the joint inside the patient body with the servomechanism, wherein the member pivots about a first pivotal axis and a second pivotal axis which are perpendicular to each other and intersect at the percutaneous penetration between the proximal end of the member and a distal end of the member when the end effector is moved by the servomechanism so as to avoid lateral movement of the member relative to the percutaneous penetration. 32. The minimally invasive surgery method of claim 31, wherein the member comprises a rigid forearm, wherein a wrist member is pivotally connected to the forearm member by the joint so as to pivot about a firs axis, and wherein the end effector comprises a plurality of end effector elements movably coupled to the wrist member so as to move about a second axis that is generally perpendicular to the first axis; wherein the moving step is performed by manually pivoting a wrist-pivoting element of a control assembly by cause the wrist member to pivot correspondingly about the distal forearm end and along the first axis; and wherein the end effector actuation step is performed by manually actuating the handle to cause the end effector elements to move about the second axis. 