An improved semiconductor wafer carrier (16) holds semiconductor wafer (14) during a CMP process and achieves a more uniform layer of slurry (24) at greater polishing speeds. Carrier (16) directs slurry (24) between semiconductor wafer (14) and conditioning pad (22) and includes wafer holding surface (52) for holding semiconductor wafer (14) as semiconductor wafer (14) contacts conditioning pad (22) and slurry (24). Outer rim portion (56) surrounds semiconductor wafer holding surface (52). A plurality of slurry channels (58) associate with outer rim portion (56) for receiving slurry (24) and directing slurry (24) between semiconductor wafer (14) and conditioning pad (22) for maintaining a uniform layer of slurry (24) between semiconductor wafer (14) and conditioning pad (22).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved wafer polishing carrier for holding a semiconductor wafer during a chemical mechanical polish process involving the use of a slurry between the semiconductor wafer and a conditioning pad, said carrier further for directing slurry between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad and comprising: a wafer holding surface for holding the semiconductor wafer as the semiconductor wafer contacts the conditioning pad and the slurry; an outer rim portion surrounding said wafer holding surface; and a plurality of slurry channels associated with said outer rim portion for receiving the slurry and directing the slurry between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad to maintain an essentially uniform layer of the slurry between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad. 2. The carrier of claim 1, wherein said plurality of slurry channels comprises a plurality of curved slurry channels each having an inlet point and a curved slurry path for directing the slurry between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad. 3. The carrier of claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of slurry channels comprises a width of approximately 0.10 inches. 4. The carrier of claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of slurry channels comprises a slurry ramp having a gradually tapering depth beginning at a greatest depth at the slurry inlet of the associated one of said plurality of slurry channels and tapering in depth to be an approximately in the same plane with said wafer holding surface. 5. An improved chemical mechanical polishing system for polishing a semiconductor wafer, comprising: a conditioning pad having a conditioning surface for receiving the semiconductor wafer and polishing the surface; a slurry for applying on said conditioning pad to lubricate the interface between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad; a carrier for holding the semiconductor wafer in contact with said conditioning pad and for maintaining an essentially uniform layer of said slurry between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad, said carrier comprising: a wafer holding surface for holding the semiconductor wafer as the semiconductor wafer contacts said conditioning pad and said slurry; an outer rim portion surrounding said wafer holding surface; and a plurality of slurry channels associated with said outer rim portion for receiving said slurry and directing said slurry between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad for maintaining an essentially uniform layer of said slurry between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said plurality of slurry channels comprises a plurality of curved slurry channels each having an inlet point and a curved slurry path for directing the slurry between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein each of said plurality of slurry channels comprises a width of approximately 0.10 inches. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein each of said plurality of slurry channels comprises a slurry ramp having a gradually tapering depth beginning at a greatest depth associated with a slurry inlet point of one of said plurality of plurality of channels and tapering in depth to be approximately in the same plane and in contact with said wafer holding surface. 9. The system of claim 5, further comprising a spraying mechanism for spraying the semiconductor wafer with a solution including a pH controlling compound for controlling the preselected pH of said slurry and removing said slurry from the semiconductor wafer. 10. The system of claim 5, wherein said carrier rotates at a relative speed of not less than 25 revolutions per minute and further wherein said carrier directs said slurry to maintain an essentially uniform slurry layer between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad. 11. The system of claim 5, wherein said carrier applies a force of not less than 5 pounds per square inch between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad and further wherein said carrier directs said slurry to maintain an essentially uniform slurry layer between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad. 12. A method for chemical mechanical polishing of a semiconductor wafer, comprising the steps of: contacting the semiconductor wafer surface with a conditioning pad; applying a slurry on the conditioning pad for lubricating the interface between the semiconductor wafer surface and the conditioning pad; holding the semiconductor wafer with a carrier as the semiconductor wafer contacts the conditioning pad; and directing the slurry into the interface between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad using a plurality of slurry channels associated with the carrier device for maintaining an essentially uniform slurry layer in the interface. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of directing the slurry between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad using a plurality of curved slurry channels each having an inlet point and a curved slurry path. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of flowing the slurry through a plurality of slurry channels each having a width of approximately 0.10 inches. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of flowing the slurry through a plurality of slurry channels each comprising a slurry ramp having a gradually tapering depth beginning at a slurry inlet point associated with said slurry channel and tapering in depth to be approximately in the same plane and in contact with said wafer holding surface. 16. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of spraying the semiconductor wafer with a solution including a pH controlling compound for controlling the preselected pH of the slurry for removing the slurry from the semiconductor wafer. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein said carrier rotates at a relative speed of not less than 25 revolutions per minute and further wherein the carrier directs the slurry to maintain an essentially uniform slurry layer between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad. 18. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of applying a force of not less than 5 pounds per square inch while directing the slurry between the semiconductor wafer and said conditioning pad and further to maintain an essentially uniform slurry layer between the semiconductor wafer and the conditioning pad. 