A memory control arrangement includes a microcontroller for performing a program memory operation and a data memory operation. The microcontroller produces address signals and a control output indicating first and second operating conditions. A program memory having a first range of memory locations stores a first program and is connected to the address lines for being addressed by the microcontroller. A data memory has second and third ranges of memory locations for storing, respectively, a second program and data for use by program variables. The data memory is connected to the address lines for selectively addressing the second and third ranges of memory locations by the address signals from the microcontroller. A memory range controller is coupled to the control output of the microcontroller for receiving the control signal and is responsive to the first operating condition indicated by the control signal for coupling the address signals to the first range of memory locations in the program memory during the program memory operation of the microcontroller and to the third range of memory locations in the data memory during the data memory operation of the microcontroller. The memory range controller is further responsive to the second operating condition indicated by the control signal for coupling the address signals to the second range of memory locations in the data memory during the program memory operation of the microcontroller and to the third range of memory locations in the data memory during the data memory operation of the controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A memory control arrangement, comprising: a microcontroller for performing a program memory operation and a data memory operation and including address lines for producing address signals and a control output for producing a control signal for indicating a first operating condition and a second operating condition; a program memory having a first range of memory locations for storing a first program and connected to the address lines for being addressed by the address signals from the microcontroller; a data memory having second and third ranges of memory locations for storing, respectively, a second program and data for use by program variables, the data memory being connected to the address lines for selectively addressing the second and third memory range locations by the address signals from the microcontroller; and a memory range controller coupled to the control output of the microcontroller for receiving the control signal, said memory range controller being responsive to the first operating condition indicated by the control signal for coupling address signals to the first range of memory locations in the program memory during the program memory operation of the microcontroller and to the third range of memory locations in the data memory during the data memory operation of the microcontroller, and the memory range controller being responsive to the second operating condition indicated by the control signal for coupling address signals to the second range of memory locations in the data memory during the program memory operation of the microcontroller and to the third range of memory locations in the data memory during the data memory operation of the microcontroller. 2. The memory control arrangement according to claim 1, further comprising an interface circuit coupled to the microcontroller for transferring the second program from a host computer into the second range of memory locations of the data memory. 3. The memory control arrangement according to claim 2, wherein the memory range controller is further responsive to the first operating condition for enabling the microcontroller to address the second range of memory locations in the data memory for storing the second program received from the host computer. 4. The memory control device according to claim 1, wherein the program memory is a nonvolatile memory. 5. The memory control arrangement according to claim 1, further comprising a battery coupled to the data memory for retaining the second program and the data when the microcontroller is in a power off state. 6. The memory control arrangement according to claim 1, further comprising a sensor for producing a first position signal indicating a position of a robotic arm, and a receiver circuit for receiving the first position signal for providing a second position signal to the microcontroller and for controlling an operation of the robotic arm. 7. The memory control arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the microcontroller selectively uses one of the first program stored in the program memory and the second program stored in the data memory for controlling an operation of a robotic arm. 8. The memory control arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the program memory comprises a read only memory and the data memory comprises a random access memory, and the memory range controller is operatively connected to the random access memory to permit the second program to be written into the second range of memory locations of the random access memory from a remote source. 9. A memory control arrangement comprising: a processor for performing a program operation and a data operation and including a control output for indicating a first operating condition and a second operating condition; a memory, coupled to the processor, for storing a first program in a first memory area, for storing a second program in a second memory area, and for storing data for use by program variables in a third memory area, the first, second and third memory areas being respectively different memory areas; and a memory control device receiving the control output of the processor and being responsive to the first operating condition of the control output of the processor for enabling the processor to access the first program in the first memory area during the program operation of the processor and to access the data in the third memory area during the data operation of the processor, and the memory control device being responsive to the second operating condition of the control output of the processor for enabling the processor to access the second program in the second memory area during the program operation of the processor and to access data in the third memory area during a data operation of the processor. 10. The memory control arrangement according to claim 9, further comprising a communication device coupled to the processor for receiving the second program from a host processor. 11. The memory control arrangement according to claim 10, wherein the memory control device is responsive to the first operating condition of the control output of the processor for enabling the processor to address the second memory area in the memory for storing the second program data received from the host processor. 12. The memory control arrangement according to claim 9, wherein the first memory area comprises a nonvolatile memory. 13. The memory control arrangement according to claim 9, further comprising a battery coupled to the memory for retaining the second program and the data when the processor is in a power off state. 14. The memory control arrangement according to claim 9, further comprising: a robot arm position indication means for outputting a position signal corresponding to a position of a robotic arm, and a signal conditioning means, for receiving the position signal and for providing a position indication signal to the processor. 15. The memory control arrangement according to claim 14, wherein the signal conditioning means provides a digital indication signal to the processor. 16. The memory controller arrangement according to claim 9, wherein the processor uses the program in one of the first and second memory areas for controlling the operation of the robotic arm. 17. The memory control arrangement according to claim 9, wherein the memory comprises a read only memory containing the first memory area for storing the first program and a random access memory containing the second and third memory areas for storing, respectively, the second program and the data, and the memory control device is operatively connected to the random access memory to permit the second program to be written into the second memory area of the random access memory from a remote source. 