A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising a plurality of reaction tubes having filter members on their lower ends, a reservoir member for receiving the filter member, a holder member having a plurality of apertures for supporting the reaction tubes, and a manifold member adjacent to the holder member and enclosing the upper ends of the reaction tubes; 2) charging the apparatus with reactants required for synthesis; 3) synthesizing the compounds in solution; or optionally 4) cleaving the compounds from a solid support within the apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter member, said upper end and said filter each having an inside diameter and an outside diameter; a holder member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a reservoir member having means for receiving said filter members on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold member located adjacent to said holder member, said manifold enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; 2) charging said apparatus with reactants required for synthesis; and 3) synthesizing compounds in said apparatus. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein in step (2) the reactants comprise: a functionalized solid support; a building block; a coupling reagent; and a solvent. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein in step (2) the reactants comprise: a functionalized solid support; a reactive building block; and a solvent. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein in step (2) the reactants comprise: a solid support with attached building block; a second building block; a coupling reagent; and a solvent. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein in step (2) the reactants comprise: a solid support with attached building block; a second reactive building block; and a solvent. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of compounds are simultaneously synthesized. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein a plurality of organic compounds are simultaneously synthesis. 8. A method according to claim 7 for the synthesis of organic compounds selected from the group consisting of peptides, hydantoins, benzodiazepines, quinolones, keto-ureas, N2-substituted hydantoins, (R)-4-benzamido-5-oxopentanoic acid derivatives, diketopiperazines, pilocarpine compounds, tepoxalin derivatives, 2H-pyranones, arylpiperazines, benzisothiazolones, spirosuccinamides, benzopyrans, and pyrimidinediones. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein a plurality of peptides are simultaneously synthesized. 10. A method according to claim 8, wherein a plurality of benzodiazepines are simultaneously synthesized. 11. A method according to claim 8, wherein a plurality of hydantoins are simultaneously synthesized. 12. A method according to claim 6, wherein a plurality of inorganic compounds are simultaneously synthesized. 13. A method according to claim 6, wherein a plurality of organometallic compounds are simultaneously synthesized. 14. A method according to claim 6 of simultaneously synthesizing multiple organic compounds, selected from the group consisting of: nitrogen containing heterocyclic compounds, selected from the group consisting of: imidazopyridines, dihydropyridines, nucleoside and nucleoside analogs, indazoles, piperidines, benzazepines, indoles and condensed indoles, quinolines and isoquinolines, pyrrolidines, aminopyrimidines, pyrrolizidines, guanidines, and tetrazoles; oxygen containing heterocycles, selected from the group consisting of: benzopyrans, coumarins, prostaglandins and prostacyclins, psoralens, tetrahydrofurans and pyrans; nitrogen and sulfur containing compounds, selected from the group consisting of: beta-lactams and cephalosporins; carbocyclic compounds, selected from the group consisting of: tocopherol analogs, vitamin D analogs, steroids, naphthalenes, and anthracene analogs; alicyclic compounds, selected from the group consisting of: polyunsaturated alkenes, hydroxypropanolamines, benzofused bicyclic amines, and aryl amides; cyclic peptides; and cyclic nucleotides. 15. A method according to claim 14 for synthesizing a series of compounds simultaneously in an array format based on a structure of known biological activity for the purpose of developing a structure activity relationship for a biological agent selected from the group consisting of: muscarinic agonists, antiepileptics, antidepressants, HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, anti-infectives, cholecystokinin receptor antagonist/agonists, antipsychotics, acylCoA:cholesterol O-acyltransferase inhibitors, and anti-inflammatory agents. 16. A method according to claim 6, wherein said plurality of compounds are used to perform reaction optimization. 17. A method according to claim 6, wherein said plurality of compounds are used for statistical experimental design strategies. 18. A method according to claim 6, wherein said plurality of compounds are used for quantitative structure activity relationship strategies. 19. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of cleaving said compounds from a solid support within said apparatus. 20. A method for preparing an array of compounds according to claim 19 whereby the cleavage of each compound from the solid support is accomplished by utilizing a functionality contained within the compound to attack and rupture the bond attaching the compound to the solid support thereby simultaneously giving an unattached cyclic product. 21. A method for preparing an array of compounds according to claim 6 whereby the cleavage of each compound from the solid support is accomplished by utilizing a functionalized compound to attack and rupture the bond attaching the penultimate compound to the solid support thereby simultaneously giving an unattached product incorporating the attacking compound as a portion of its structure. 22. A method for preparing an array of compounds according to claim 6 whereby the cleavage from the solid support of each compound of the array is accomplished by utilizing a functionalized compound to attack and rupture the bond attaching the penultimate compound to the solid support thereby simultaneously giving an unattached product incorporating an invariant functionality at one position within the final compound. 23. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter member thereon; a reservoir member having reaction well means for receiving said filter members on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to said reservoir member and having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold member located adjacent to said holder member, said manifold member enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a means for equalizing pressure differentials separately and independently between each of said reaction tubes and each of said corresponding reaction wells; 2) charging said apparatus with reactants required for synthesis; and 3) synthesizing compounds in said apparatus. 24. The method as set forth in claim 23 further comprising the step of cleaving said compounds from a solid support within said apparatus. 25. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter member thereon; a reservoir member having means for receiving said filter members on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member and having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold member located adjacent to said holder member, said manifold member enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member; a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said manifold member; a first fastening mechanism for only fastening together said holder member and said manifold member; and a second independent fastening mechanism for only fastening together said holder member and said reservoir member; 2) charging said apparatus with reactants required for synthesis; 3) synthesizing compounds in said apparatus. 26. The method as set forth in claim 25 further comprising the step of cleaving said compounds from a solid support within said apparatus. 27. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter; a reservoir member having means for receiving said filter on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold located adjacent to said holder member, said manifold enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes and having a top member; a means for independent access through said top member of said manifold coaxially with each of said reaction tubes; 2) charging said apparatus with reactants required for synthesis; 3) synthesizing compounds in said apparatus. 28. The method as set forth in claim 27 further comprising the step of cleaving said compounds from a solid support within said apparatus. 29. The method as set forth in claim 27 further comprising a sealing means on said top member of said manifold. 30. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter, said upper end and said filter each having an inside diameter and an outside diameter; a reservoir member having means for receiving said filters on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold located adjacent to said holder member, said manifold enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a sealing means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member; a means for fastening together said reservoir member and said holder member; 2) charging said apparatus with a solid support with attached building block wherein said building block has a reactive moiety protected by a protecting group and a solvent; 3) removing said protecting group from said reactive moiety with a deprotection reagent; 4) removing said deprotection reagent; 5) sequentially adding additional reactive building blocks in solvents to synthesize said compounds; and 6) cleaving said compounds from said solid support within said apparatus. 31. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter, said upper end and said filter each having an inside diameter and an outside diameter; a reservoir block having means for receiving said filter on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder block removably located adjacent to the reservoir block having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold located adjacent to said holder block, said manifold enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a means for providing a seal between said holder block and said reservoir block; a means for providing a seal between said holder block and said manifold; a means for fastening together said reservoir block, said holder block, and said manifold; 2) charging said apparatus with reactants required for synthesis; and 3) synthesizing said compounds in solution. 32. A method according to claim 31, wherein said compounds are used to perform reaction optimization. 33. A method according to claim 31, wherein said compounds are used for statistical experimental design strategies. 34. A method according to claim 31, wherein said compounds are used for quantitive structure activity relationship strategies. 35. A method for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, said method comprising the steps of: 1) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter; a holder member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; a reservoir member removably attached to said holder member and having reaction wells for receiving said filter on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a manifold member attached to said holder member, said manifold enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reaction well; a means for equalizing pressure differentials separately and independently between each of said reaction tubes and each of said corresponding reaction wells; 2) charging said apparatus with a solid support with attached building block wherein said building block has a reactive moiety protected by a protecting group and a solvent; 3) removing said protecting group from said reactive moiety with a deprotection reagent; 4) removing said deprotection reagent; 5) adding a coupling reagent in a solvent; 6) sequentially adding additional reactive building blocks and optionally coupling reagents in solvents to synthesize said compounds; and 7) cleaving said compounds from said solid support within said apparatus. 36. A method according to any of claims 2, 3, 4, 5, 24, and 35 wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of cross linked divinylbenzene-styrene copolymer, controlled pore glass, polyacrylamide, poly(ethylene glycol), poly(ethylene glycol) monomethyl ether, silica gel, cellulose, and acrylic acid grafted polypropylene. 