A system and method for measuring and surface reconstruction of a 3D image of an object comprises a projector arranged to project a pattern onto a surface of an object to be imaged; and a processor stage arranged to examine distortion or distortions produced in the pattern by the surface. The processor stage is arranged to convert by, for example, a triangulation process the distortion or distortions produced in the pattern by the surface to a distance representation representative of the shape of the surface. The processor stage is also arranged to reconstruct electronically the surface shape of the object.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for measuring and surface reconstruction of a 3D image of an object comprising: projecting a pattern onto a surface of an object to be imaged, wherein the step of projecting a pattern comprises projecting a colour-coded array pattern onto a surface of an object to be imaged; and wherein the step of projecting a pattern comprises projecting using a projector; viewing using a camera said pattern projected onto said surface and passing one or more signals from said camera representative of said pattern to said processing stage; arranging said camera and said projector to have 6 degrees of freedom relative to each other; examining in a processor stage distortion or distortions produced in said pattern by said surface; converting in said processor stage said distortion or distortions produced in said pattern by said surface to a distance representation representative of the shape of the surface; and reconstructing electronically said surface shape of said object; slicing in said processor stage said pattern as distorted by said surface into a number of cross section curves; reconstructing one or more of said cross-section curves by a closed B-spline curve technique; selecting a control point number of a plurality of B-spline models from said one or more curves; determining using entropy techniques representation of uncertainty in said selected plurality of B-spline models to predict an information gain for each cross section curve; mapping said information gain of said plurality of B-spline models into a view space; and selecting as a Next Best View a view point in said view space containing a maximum information gain for said object. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of projecting a pattern comprises projecting a pattern of rectangles onto a surface of an object to be imaged. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of projecting a pattern comprises projecting a striped pattern onto a surface of an object to be imaged. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of projecting a pattern comprises projecting a pattern of squares onto a surface of an object to be imaged. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of projecting a pattern comprises projecting a pattern using an LCD projector. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of viewing using the camera comprises viewing using a CCO camera. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of arranging comprises arranging said camera and said projector to have 3 linear degrees of freedom and 3 rotational degrees of freedom relative to each other. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of projecting comprises projecting using a projector, the method further comprising calibrating said projector prior to projecting said pattern. 9. A method according to claim 1, further comprising automatically reconfiguring one or more settings of said degrees of freedom if said one or more settings are varied during operation. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein said step of reconfiguring comprises taking a single image of said surface for reconfiguring one or more external parameters of said camera and/or said projector. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said step of reconfiguring comprises taking a further image of said surface for reconfiguring one or more internal parameters of said camera and/or said projector. 12. A method according to claim 1, further comprising viewing said surface obliquely to monitor distortion or distortions in said pattern. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of reconstructing comprises reconstructing said surface from a single image. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of reconstructing comprises reconstructing said surface from two or more images taken from different positions if one or more portions of said image are obscured in a first image taken. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein a Bayesian information criterion (BIC) is applied for selecting the control point number of said plurality of B-spline models from said one or more curves. 16. A method according to claim 1, further comprising terminating said method when said entire surface of said object has been examined and it has been determined that there is no further information to be gained from said surface. 17. A method according to claim 1, further comprising taking metric readings from said reconstructed surface shape. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of converting said distortion or distortions comprises converting using a triangulation process. 19. A system for measuring and surface reconstruction of a 3D image of an object comprising: a projector arranged to project a pattern onto a surface of an object to be imaged, wherein said pattern comprises a colour-coded array pattern; a camera arranged to view said pattern projected onto said surface; said camera being arranged to pass one or more signals representative of said pattern to said processor, wherein said projector and said camera are arranged to have 6 degrees of freedom relative to each other; a processor stage arranged to examine distortion or distortions produced in said pattern by said surface; said processor stage further being arranged to convert said distortion or distortions produced in said pattern by said surface to a distance representation representative of the shape of the surface; and said processor stage being arranged to reconstruct electronically said surface shape of said object; slice said processor stage said pattern as distorted by said surface into a number of cross section curves; reconstruct one or more of said cross-section curves by a closed B-spline curve technique; select a control point number of a plurality of B-spline models from said one or more curves; determine using entropy techniques representation of uncertainty in said selected plurality of B-spline models to predict an information gain for each cross section curve; map said information gain of said plurality of B-spline models into a view space; and select as a Next Best View a view point in said view space containing a maximum information gain for said object. 20. A system according to claim 19, wherein said pattern comprises an array of rectangles. 21. A system according to claim 19, wherein said pattern comprises an array of stripes. 22. A system according to claim 19, wherein said pattern comprises an array of squares. 23. A system according to claim 19, wherein said projector comprises an LCD projector. 24. A system according to claim 19, wherein said camera comprises a CCO camera. 25. A system according to claim 19, wherein said projector and said camera are arranged to have 3 linear degrees of freedom and 3 rotational degrees of freedom relative to each other. 26. A system according to claim 19, wherein said projector is calibrated prior to projecting said pattern. 27. A system according to claim 19, wherein said processor is arranged to automatically reconfigure one or more settings of said degrees of freedom if said one or more settings are varied during operation. 28. A system according to claim 27, wherein processor IS arranged to reconfigure said one or more settings by taking a single image of said surface for reconfiguring one or more external parameters of said camera and/or said projector. 29. A system according to claim 28, wherein processor is arranged to reconfigure said one or more settings by taking a further image of said surface for reconfiguring one or more internal parameters of said camera and/or said projector. 30. A system according to claim 19, wherein said camera is arranged to view said surface obliquely to monitor distortion or distortions in said pattern. 31. A system according to claim 19, wherein said processor is arranged to reconstruct said surface from a single image. 32. A system according to claim 19, wherein said processor is arranged to reconstruct said surface from two or more images taken from different positions if one or more portions of said image are obscured in a first image taken. 33. A system according to claim 19, wherein said processor is arranged to apply a Bayesian information criterion (BIC) for selecting the control point number of plurality of B-spline models from said one or more curves. 34. A system according to claim 19, wherein said processor is arranged to terminate one or more processing steps when said entire surface of said object has been examined and it has been determined that there is no further information to be gained from said surface. 35. A system according to claim 19, wherein said processor is arranged to convert said distortion or distortions using a triangulation process. 36. An active vision system comprising the system according to claim 19. 