A device for controlled release of an active substance through one or more asymmetric membranes by diffusion and/or osmotic pumping.
Claims We claim: 1. A process for preparing a tablet for controlled release of one or more active substances into an environment, said tablet comprised of a core of said active substances, with or without one or more excipients, surrounded by an asymmetric membrane selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains from two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate comprising: coating said core with a solution of a material selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains from two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate; and inducing a phase separation to occur. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the process is a wet process. 3. The process of claim 2, comprising the steps: a) coating said core with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and, optionally, about 0-35% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone, b) immersing the coated core into an aqueous quench bath and c) drying. 4. The process of claim 3, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 15% by weight and the pore-forming substances are formamide, acetic acid, glycerol, an alkanol of one to four carbon atoms, sodium acetate, aqueous hydrogen peroxide or polyvinylpyrrolidone. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein the pore-forming substance is ethanol present in the amount of 30% by weight. 6. The process of claim 4, wherein the pore-forming substance is glycerol present in the amount of 10% by weight. 7. The process of claim 2, comprising the steps: a) coating said core with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and, optionally, about 0-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone, b) immersing the coated core into water until the membrane has solidified, c) immersing the coated core into isopropanol. until the water has been replaced by isopropanol, d) immersing the coated core in hexane until the isopropanol has been replaced by hexane and drying. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 15% by weight and the pore-forming substances are formamide, acetic acid, glycerol, an alkanol of one to four carbon atoms, sodium acetate, aqueous hydrogen peroxide or polyvinylpyrrolidone. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein the pore-forming substance is ethanol present in the amount of 30% by weight. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein the process is a dry process. 11. The process of claim 10, comprising the steps: a) coating said core with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and about 20-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone and b) drying the tablet. 12. The process of claim 11, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate 398-10 present in the amount of 15% by weight and the pore-forming substances are comprised of glycerol, water, butanol and ethanol present in the amount of 1.9, 2.7, 11.7 and 21.7%, respectively, by weight. 13. A process for preparing a capsule for controlled release of one or more active substances into an environment, said capsule comprised of a core of said active substances, with or without one or more excipients, surrounded by an asymmetric membrane selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate comprising: coating a mandrel with a solution of a material selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains from two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate; inducing a phase separation to occur to form a capsule; and filling said capsule with said core. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein the process is a wet process. 15. The process of claim 14, comprising the steps: a) coating a mandrel device, sized and shaped to match the inner dimensions of the desired capsule, with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and, optionally, about 0-40% of one or more pore-forming substance by weight in acetone, b) immersing the coated device into an aqueous quench bath, c) drying, d) removing the capsule shell from said device, e) filling the capsule shell with the core material and f) sealing the capsule. 16. The process of claim 15, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 16% by weight and the pore-forming substance is formamide, acetic acid, glycerol, an alkanol of one to four carbon atoms, sodium acetate, aqueous hydrogen peroxide or polyvinylpyrrolidone. 17. The process of claim 16, wherein the pore-forming substances are ethanol and glycerol present in the amount of 28 and 8%, respectively, by weight. 18. The process of claim 16, wherein the pore-forming substance is glycerol present in the amount of 10% by weight. 19. A process for preparing beads for controlled release of one or more active substances into an environment, said beads comprised of a core of said active substances, with or without one or more excipients, surrounded by an asymmetric membrane comprising: coating said core with a solution of a material selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains from two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate; and inducing a phase separation to occur. 20. The process of claim 19, wherein the process is a dry process. 21. The process of claim 20, comprising the steps: a) spray drying a slurry of said active substances in the form of beads coated with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and about 20-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone into a chamber maintained at about 25.degree.-90.degree. C., and b) separating the dried beads from the polymer flakes by sieving or by using cyclones. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the pore-forming substance, which comprises 38% by weight of the total solution and consists of ethanol, butanol, water and glycerol present in the amount of 57, 31, 7 and 5%, respectively, by weight and the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 15% by weight. 23. The process of claim 22, where the slurry is spray dried under a pressure of 10-100 psi above atmospheric pressure into a chamber at atmospheric pressure. 24. The process of claim 19, wherein the process is a wet process. 25. The process of claim 24, comprising the steps: a) coating said core of active substances in the form of beads with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and, optionally, about 0-40% of one or more pore-forming substance by weight in acetone, b) immersing the coated beads into an aqueous quench bath, c) removing the beads after the membrane has solidified and drying. 26. The process of claim 25, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 15% by weight and the pore-forming substance is ethanol present in the amount of 33% by weight. 27. The process of claim 20, comprising the spray coating of said device suspended in the temperature controlled air flow of a fluidized bed coating system with a solution comprised of about 5-10% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and about 35-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone until the desired number of asymmetric membranes have been applied. 28. The process of claim 27, wherein the pore-forming substance is ethanol and the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate. 29. A process for preparing a capsule, said capsule having a shell, said shell comprised of an asymmetric membrane selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains from two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate comprising: coating a mandrel with a solution of a material selected from the group consisting of mono-, di- and triacyl cellulose esters wherein said acyl group contains from two to four carbon atoms, alkyl cellulose ethers wherein said alkyl group contains one to four carbon atoms, cellulose nitrate, acetaldehyde dimethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate ethyl carbamate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate methyl carbamate, cellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate dimethaminoacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl carbonate, cellulose acetate chloroacetate, cellulose acetate ethyl oxalate, cellulose acetate methyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate butyl sulfonate, cellulose acetate p-toluene sulfonate, cellulose cyanoacetates, cellulose acetate trimellitate, cellulose methacrylates, polysulfones, polyamides, polyurethanes, polypropylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl alcohol, ethylenevinyl alcohol, polyvinylidene fluoride and polymethyl methacrylate; and inducing a phase separation to occur. 30. The process of claim 29, wherein the process is a wet process. 31. The process of claim 30, comprising the steps: a) coating a mandrel device, sized and shaped to match the inner dimensions of the desired capsule, with a solution comprised of about 10-20% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and, optionally, about 0-40% of one or more pore-forming substance by weight in acetone, b) immersing the coated device into an aqueous quench bath, c) drying and d) removing the capsule shell from said device. 32. The process of claim 31, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 16% by weight and the pore-forming substance is formamide, acetic acid, glycerol, an alkanol of one to four carbon atoms, sodium acetate, aqueous hydrogen peroxide or polyvinylpyrrolidone. 33. The process of claim 32, wherein the pore-forming substances are ethanol and glycerol present in the amount of 28 and 8%, respectively, by weight. 34. The process of claim 32, wherein the pore-forming substance is glycerol present in the amount of 10% by weight. 35. The process of claim 10, comprising the spray coating of said device suspended in the temperature controlled air flow of a fluidized bed coating system with a solution comprised of about 5-10% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and about 35-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone until the desired number of asymmetric membranes have been applied. 36. The process of claim 35, wherein the pore-forming substance is ethanol and the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate. 37. The process of claim 10, comprising spray coating said core in a perforated pan coating machine with a solution comprised of about 10-15% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and about 20-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone. 38. The process of claim 37, wherein the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate present in the amount of 10% by weight and the pore-forming substances are comprised of glycerol, water, butanol and ethanol present in the amount of 2, 2.8, 12.4 and 22, respectively, by weight. 39. The process of claim 13 wherein the process is a dry process. 40. The process of claim 39, comprising the spray coating of said devise suspended in the temperature controlled air flow of a fluidized bed coating system with a solution comprised of about 5-10% of a cellulose ester or ethyl cellulose by weight and about 35-40% of one or more pore-forming substances by weight in acetone until the desired number of asymmetric membranes have been applied. 41. The process of claim 40, wherein the pore-forming substance is ethanol and the cellulose ester is cellulose acetate. 