An improved and apparatus is provided in a tape drive for servo-controlling a tape head position relative to a magnetic tape as the magnetic tape travels past the tape head thereby reducing track mis-registration on the magnetic tape. Servo elements contained within the tape head detect a lateral displacement of the magnetic tape position relative to the tape head and generate position error signals corresponding to such lateral displacement. The position error signals are then filtered to generate a low frequency position error signal, a midrange frequency error signal, and position reliability signals. The tape head is then positioned by a head actuator according to the low frequency position error signal to adjust to the lateral movement of the magnetic tape. The midrange frequency error signal is compared to a distortion threshold to determine if errors exist due to tape edge vibrations or distortion of the magnetic tape. The position reliability signals are used to calculate an error density, which is then compared to a surface threshold to determine whether a surface defect exists on the magnetic tape.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a tape drive having a frame, a tape head for accessing data on a magnetic tape, and an actuator for positioning said tape head, said tape head having read elements for reading data from said magnetic tape, write elements for writing data to said magnetic tape, and servo elements for detecting a lateral position of said tape head relative to said magnetic tape, a method for servo controlling said tape head such that said tape head remains aligned with said magnetic tape comprising steps of: sensing a position of said tape head relative to said frame of said tape drive to allow said actuator to adjust said tape head to movements of said frame; magnetically detecting a lateral position adjustment of said magnetic tape relative to said servo element of said tape head as said magnetic tape longitudinally travels past said tape head; converting said lateral position adjustment into a plurality of position error signals; first filtering said plurality of position error signals to generate a filtered position error signal; second filtering said plurality of position error signals to calculate an error density, said error density computed by veracity checking a current time sample of position error signals to generate a current time sample of position reliability signals and adding said current time sample of position reliability signals to previously sampled position reliability signals; laterally positioning said tape head with said actuator according to said filtered position error signal; and comparing said error density with a surface threshold to determine whether a surface defect exists on said magnetic tape. 2. The method in claim 1 further comprising: third filtering said plurality of position error signals to generate a midrange frequency signal; and comparing said midrange frequency signal with a distortion threshold to detect whether a tape distortion or a tape edge vibration error exists on said magnetic tape. 3. The method in claim 2 further comprising terminating a write access on said magnetic tape when either said surface defect or said tape distortion or said tape edge vibration error is detected. 4. The method in claim 2 wherein said third filtering step comprises band-pass filtering. 5. The method in claim 1 wherein said second filtering step includes a matrix having r rows and n columns to compute said error density, such that each row corresponds to one of said plurality of position error signals and each column corresponds to a time sample of said position reliability signals. 6. The method in claim 1 wherein said veracity checking further comprises verifying that an amplitude of each one of said plurality of position error signals is within a minimum and maximum amplitude range and a specified amplitude differential. 7. The method in claim 1 wherein said first filtering step comprises low-pass filtering said plurality of position error signals to generate said filtered position error signal having only low frequency signal components. 8. The method in claim 7 wherein said first filtering step further comprises: combining said plurality of position error signals; and averaging said combination of position error signals to 1generate said filtered position error signal having only low frequency signal components. 9. In a tape drive having a frame, a tape head for accessing data on a magnetic tape, and an actuator for positioning said tape head, said tape head having read elements for reading data from said magnetic tape and write elements for writing data to said magnetic tape, a servo system for controlling said tape head such that said tape head remains aligned with said magnetic tape comprising: a position sensor connected to said frame for maintaining a position of said tape head relative to said frame of said tape drive, said position sensor allowing said actuator to adjust said tape head to any movements of said frame; a plurality of servo elements within said tape head for detecting a lateral position adjustment of said magnetic tape relative to said tape head as said magnetic tape longitudinally travels past said tape head, said plurality of servo elements converting said lateral position adjustment into a plurality of position error signals; a first filter to generate a filtered position error signal from said plurality of position error signals, said filtered position error signal used by said actuator to laterally position said tape head; and a second filter to calculate an error density, said error density computed by veracity checking a current time sample of position error signals to generate a current time sample of position reliability signals and adding said current time sample of position reliability signals to previously sampled position reliability signals, said error density then compared to a surface threshold to determine whether a surface defect exists on said magnetic tape. 10. The servo system in claim 9 further comprising: a third filter to generate a midrange frequency signal from said plurality of position error signals; and wherein said midrange frequency signal is compared to a distortion threshold to detect whether a tape distortion or a tape edge vibration error exists on said magnetic tape. 11. The servo system in claim 10 wherein a write operation on said magnetic tape is terminated when either said surface defect or said tape distortion or said tape edge vibration error is detected. 12. The servo system in claim 11 wherein said second filter further comprises: a converter for generating said current time sample of position reliability signals; a matrix having r rows and n columns, each row corresponds to one of said plurality of position error signals and each column corresponds to a time sample of said position reliability signals; and an adder to compute a sum of said plurality of position reliability signals for calculating said error density. 13. The servo system in claim 12 wherein said converter further comprises a means for verifying that an amplitude of each one of said plurality of position error signals is within a minimum and maximum amplitude range and a specified amplitude differential. 14. The servo system in claim 10 wherein said third filter is a band-pass filter. 15. The servo system in claim 9 wherein said first filter is a low-pass filter to generate said filtered position error signal having only low frequency signal components from said plurality of position error signals. 16. The servo system in claim 15 wherein said first filter further comprises: a means for combining said plurality of position error signals; and a means for averaging said combination of position error signals to generate said filtered position error signal having only low frequency signal components. 17. A tape drive for reading information from and writing information to a magnetic tape comprising: a tape head for accessing information on said magnetic tape; a frame for reducing resonances to said tape head; an actuator for positioning said tape head; a motion control system for servoing said tape head relative to said magnetic tape further comprising: a position sensor connected to said frame for maintaining a position of said tape head relative to said frame of said tape drive, said position sensor allowing said actuator to adjust said tape head to any movements of said frame; a plurality of servo elements within said tape head for detecting a lateral position adjustment of said magnetic tape relative to said tape head as said magnetic tape longitudinally travels past said tape head, said plurality of servo elements converting said lateral position adjustment into a plurality of position error signals; a first filter to generate a filtered position error signal from said plurality of position error signals, said filtered position error signal used by said actuator to laterally position said tape head; a second filter to calculate an error density, said error density computed by veracity checking a current time sample of position error signals to generate a current time sample of position reliability signals and adding said current time sample of position reliability signals to previously sampled position reliability signals, said error density compared to a threshold to determine whether a surface defect exists on said magnetic tape; and a third filter to generate a midrange frequency signal from said plurality of position error signals, said midrange frequency signal compared to a distortion threshold to detect whether a tape distortion or a tape end vibration error exists on said magnetic tape, wherein a write operation on said magnetic tape is terminated when either said surface defect or said tape distortion or said tape end vibration error is detected. 18. The tape drive in claim 17 wherein said second filter of said motion control system further comprises: a converter for generating said current time sample of position reliability signals from said plurality of position error signals, said converter verifying that an amplitude of each one of said plurality of position error signals is within a minimum and maximum amplitude range and a specified amplitude differential; a matrix having r rows and n columns, each row corresponds to one of said plurality of position error signals and each column corresponds to a time sample of said position reliability signals; and an adder to compute a sum of said plurality of position reliability signals for calculating said error density. 19. The tape drive in claim 18 further comprising a data control circuit for sending data to and receiving data from said magnetic tape head. 