A machine for delivering a product which may be automatically personalized by a customer at the time of purchase is disclosed. The product may be selected from a plurality of different types of products which may communicate in a plurality of media such as print, braille, or audio or video tape. The machine stores base products which may be modified to communicate in a plurality of media. Product handling means effects a series of operations including transfer of a base product from storage. Electrically controllable modification means effects modification of the base product to produce a modified base product and electrically controllable delivery means effects delivery of the modified base product. An enclosure contains the storage and product handling means therewithin. The apparatus further comprises payment means operable by a customer on the outside of the enclosure to effect payment for a product and selection means operable by a customer on the outside of the enclosure to effect entry of control data which defines the customer's selection of the media form of the base product and modifications to be performed of the selected media form to define the desired final form of the personalized product to be delivered to the customer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A machine for delivering a greeting card which may be automatically personalized by the customer at the time of purchase, said machine comprising: storage means for storing greeting card stock, delivery receptacle means, product handling means for effecting a series of operations and including electrically controllable transfer means for effecting transfer of greeting card stock from said storage means, electrically controllable printing means for printing graphics and text on greeting card stock transferred by said transfer means and for effecting printing of both high quality graphics and text on said transferred stock for production of a personalized greeting card, and electrically controllable delivery means for effecting delivery of said personalized greeting card from said printing means to said delivery receptacle means, an enclosure containing said storage, receptacle and printing means therewithin, payment means operable by a customer on the outside of said enclosure to effect payment for a greeting card, selection means operable by a customer on the outside of said enclosure to effect entry of control data to select graphics and text to be provided on the personalized greeting card to be delivered to the customer, and computer means within said enclosure and coupled to said payment and selection means and to said electrically controllable transfer, printing and delivery means of said product handling means, said computer means controlling said transfer, printing and delivery means of said product handling means following payment by a customer to perform a series of operations in accordance with said control data, said series of operations being performed within said enclosure without operator intervention and including transfer of greeting card stock from said storage means, printing of a sheet of greeting card stock transferred from said storage means and delivery of the desired final form of personalized greeting card from said printing means to said delivery receptacle means. 2. A machine as defined in claim 1, said selection means including display means for displaying a plurality of greeting card designs for selection by the customer. 3. A machine as defined in claim 2, said computer means being operable for controlling operation of said display means as well as said product handling means. 4. A machine as defined in claim 3, including memory means associated with said computer means for storage of data for selective display of said plurality of greeting card designs by said display means and for printing of any selected one of said plurality of greeting card designs by said printing means. 5. A machine as defined in claim 4, said computer means being arranged for downloading data from said memory means for printing of a greeting card design while concurrently controlling said transfer means to transfer greeting card stock to said printing means. 6. A machine as defined in claim 4, said computer means being arranged for operating said display means for entry by a customer of data for personalization of a greeting card as well as for selection of a card design to be personalized. 7. A machine as defined in claim 1, said transfer means being arranged for transferring one sheet of greeting card stock at a time from said storage means to said printing means. 8. A machine as defined in claim 7, said transfer means including transfer head means which includes pick-up means for pick-up of one sheet of greeting card stock from said storage means, and actuating means for moving said transfer head means to move said sheet to said printing means. 9. A machine as defined in claim 8, said printing means including an entrance for receiving said sheet and being arranged for printing on one side of said sheet while moving said sheet from said entrance to an exit region, and said transfer means being arranged to move said sheet from said exit region to said entrance after one printing operation to print on the opposite side of said sheet in a second printing operation. 10. A machine as defined in claim 8, said printing means including ink jet head means rotatable about a vertical axis, and sheet handling means for receiving a sheet at an entrance below said head means, forming the sheet into a partial cylinder and moving the formed sheet upwardly past said head means to an upper exit region while operating said head means to print on a radially inwardly facing side of the sheet. 11. A machine as defined in claim 10, said sheet handling means including a pair of vertically extending belts on diametrically opposite sides of said vertical axis and having cleats thereon in vertical alignment, sheet guide means defining a guide path extending arcuately about said axis on the inside of and past both of said belts, and stop means limiting movement of the sheet to a limit position in which it forms a partial cylinder extending over both of said cleats to be carried upwardly by said cleats past said print head for transfer of ink thereto. 12. A machine as defined in claim 11, said sheet handling means including roller means adjacent an intermediate portion of said guide path and engageable with a sheet to move the sheet toward said limit position. 13. A machine as defined in claim 10, said transfer means being arranged to move said sheet from said exit region to said entrance after one printing operation to print on the opposite side of said sheet in a second printing operation. 14. A machine as defined in claim 10, said sheet handling means including guide means extending vertically above said print head and operative to releasably hold a sheet in the form of a partial cylinder for pick up by said pickup means. 15. A machine as defined in claim 1, wherein a greeting card has a curl after completion of printing of graphics and text thereof by said printing means, said machine including decurling means associated with said printing means for removal of said curl. 16. A machine as defined in claim 15, said decurling means including first, second and third roller means on spaced axes, means for rotating said roller means, and means for guiding a leading edge of a greeting card to pass between said first and second roller means and then between said second and third roller means, the axis of said second roller means being offset from a plane through the axes of said first and third roller means to an extent such as to remove curl from the greeting card. 17. A machine as defined in claim 15, said printing means including an entrance for receiving a sheet of printing card stock and being arranged for printing on said sheet while moving said sheet from said entrance to an exit region, said transfer means including transfer head means which includes pick-up means for pick-up of one sheet of greeting card stock from said storage means, and means for moving said transfer head means to move said sheet to said entrance of said printing means, thereafter moving said sheet from said exit region of said printing means and to said decurling means, and thereafter moving said sheet from said decurling means to said delivery means. 18. A machine as defined in claim 1, modification means for effecting modifications of a greeting card sheet, said transfer means being operative to move a sheet to and from said modification means for effecting of said modifications after transfer from said storage means and before movement to said delivery means. 19. A machine as defined in claim 1, said printing means being arranged to deliver a sheet of greeting card stock to an exit region thereof after printing of graphics and text thereon, said transfer means including transfer head means which includes suction pick-up means for picking up a sheet at said exit region of said printing means and subsequently moving said sheet to said delivery means. 20. A machine as defined in claim 1, envelope storage means for storage of envelopes, said product handling means including means for moving an envelope from said envelope storage means to said delivery means, and said delivery means being operable to deliver both a personalized greeting card and an envelope to said delivery receptacle means. 21. A machine as defined in claim 20, bag storage means for storing bags, said product handling means including means for moving a bag from said bag storage means to said delivery means, and said delivery means being operable to deliver a personalized greeting card together with an envelope and a bag to said delivery receptacle means. 22. A machine as defined in claim 1, said printing means including an entrance for receiving one sheet of greeting card stock and being arranged to deliver a sheet of greeting card stock to an exit region thereof after printing of graphics and text thereon, said transfer means including transfer head means which includes suction pick-up means for picking up a sheet from said storage means, then transferring said sheet to said entrance of said printing means, thereafter picking up a sheet at said exit region of said printing means and thereafter moving said sheet to said delivery means. 23. A machine as defined in claim 22, said transfer means including an articulated arm assembly arranged for effecting vertical components of movement of said pick-up means and operable to move a sheet to a position above said delivery means to be dropped into said delivery means. 24. A machine as defined in claim 1, said printer being arranged for printing color graphics and text on said greeting card stock. 25. A machine for delivering a product which may be automatically personalized by the customer at the time of purchase and which is selected from a plurality of different types of products including products of forms which communicate in a plurality of media, said machine comprising: storage means for storing base products of a plurality of forms adapted to be modified to communicate in said plurality of media, delivery receptacle means, product handling means for effecting a series of operations and including electrically controllable transfer means for effecting transfer of a base product from said storage means, electrically controllable modification means for effecting modification of said base product to produce a modified base product and electrically controllable delivery means for effecting delivery of said modified base product to said delivery receptacle means, an enclosure containing said storage, receptacle and product handling means therewithin, payment means operable by a customer on the outside of said enclosure to effect payment for a product, selection means operable by a customer on the outside of said enclosure to effect entry of control data which defines the customer's selection of the media form of the base product and modifications to be performed of the selected media form to thereby define the desired final form of the personalized product to be delivered to the customer, and computer means within said enclosure and coupled to said payment and selection means and to said electrically controllable transfer, modification and delivery means of said product handling means, said computer means controlling said transfer, modification and delivery means of said product handling means following payment by a customer to perform a series of operations in accordance with said control data, said series of operations being performed within said enclosure without operator intervention and including transfer of a base product of the selected media form from said storage means, modification of a base product transferred from said storage means in accordance with the customer's selection and delivery of the desired final form of product from said modification means to said delivery receptacle means. 26. A machine as defined in claim 25, said plurality of forms of media including video tape cassettes. 27. A machine as defined in claim 25, said plurality of forms of media including audio tape cassettes. 28. A machine as defined in claim 25, said plurality of forms of media including floppy discs. 29. A machine as defined in claim 25, said plurality of forms of media including still video discs. 30. A machine as defined in claim 25, said plurality of forms of media including smart cards. 31. A machine as defined in claim 25, input means for input of each of a plurality of forms of input media, and input media selection means for selection by the customer from among said plurality of forms of input media. 32. A machine as defined in claim 31, said forms of input media including video cassettes. 33. A machine as defined in claim 31, said forms of input media including audio cassettes. 34. A machine as defined in claim 31, said forms of input media including floppy discs. 35. A machine as defined in claim 31, said forms of input media including still video discs. 36. A machine as defined in claim 31, said forms of input media including live video. 37. A machine as defined in claim 31, said forms of input media including documents which may be scanned, said input means including a scanner. 38. A machine as defined in claim 30, including a keyboard for entry of control and personalization data. 39. A machine as defined in claim 31, including an optical character reader. 40. A machine as defined in claim 31, including voice recognition means for entry of control data. 41. A machine for delivering a greeting card which may be automatically personalized by the customer at the time of purchase, said machine comprising: storage means for storing greeting card stock, delivery receptacle means, product handling means for effecting a series of operations and including electrically controllable transfer means for effecting transfer of greeting card stock from said storage means, electrically controllable printing means for printing graphics and text on greeting card stock transferred by said transfer means and for effecting printing of both high quality graphics and text on said transferred stock for production of a personalized greeting card, electrically controllable modification means for modification of greeting card stock after transfer from said storage means and before transfer as a printed card to said delivery means, and electrically controllable delivery means for effecting delivery of said modified and personalized greeting card from said printing means to said delivery receptacle means, an enclosure containing said storage, receptacle and printing means therewithin, payment means operable by a customer on the outside of said enclosure to effect payment for a greeting card, selection means operable by a customer on the outside of said enclosure to effect entry of control data to select modifications of and graphics and text to be printed on the personalized greeting card to be delivered to the customer, and computer means within said enclosure and coupled to said payment and selection means and to said electrically controllable transfer, printing and delivery means of said product handling means, said computer means controlling said transfer, printing, modification and delivery means of said product handling means following payment by a customer to perform a series of operations in accordance with said control data. 42. A machine as defined in claim 41, said modification means including transfer means for transfer of a decorative object to a sheet of greeting card stock. 43. A machine as defined in claim 41, said modification means including card ablation means. 44. A machine as defined in claim 41, said modification means including braille punch means. 45. A method of automated supply of products created according to preferences of a customer to be thereby of personalized form, said method comprising the steps of storing base products of a plurality of forms adapted to be modified in accordance with said preferences of a customer, communicating data to the customer defining forms of products and product modifications which are available for selection and authorizations required from the customer for producing modified products, detecting a customer's selection of a form of product and modifications thereof and the customer's authorization of production thereof, automatically responding to said selection and authorization by effecting a series of operations including automatically effecting transfer from storage of a base product of the form selected by the customer, automatically effecting modification of the transferred base product of the selected form to produce a base product modified in accordance with the customer's selection, and automatically effecting delivery of the modified base product to the customer wherein said available forms of products are such as to communicate in a plurality of media and wherein a customer's selection of a form of product includes a selection of a particular medium of communication. 