A laser welding system for welding sheets of material, such as automobile body parts, together includes a plurality of clamps. The system includes a fiber optic cable for each clamp having a first end coupled to a laser beam source and a second end coupled to the clamp for transmitting a laser beam from the laser beam source to the clamp. The system further includes a focusing head secured to each clamp and the second end of the cable for focusing the laser beam onto the material to be welded.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser welding system for welding sheets of material together, said system comprising: at least one clamp having a lower plate and an upper plate moveable relative to said lower plate for squeezing together associated sheets of material positioned therebetween; a fiber optic cable for each said clamp, said cable having a first end adapted to be coupled to a laser beam source and a second end coupled to said clamp for transmitting a laser beam from the laser beam source to said clamp; and a focusing head secured to said clamp for coupling said cable second end to said clamp and for focusing said laser beam onto the material to be welded; wherein each said clamp includes a slot extending through said clamp and said slot is positioned horizontally between said upper and lower plates, to thereby allow vertically disposed edge portions of associated upper and lower clamped sheets to be laser welded together. 2. The laser welding system as in claim 1 wherein said slot defines a path of motion. 3. The laser welding system as in claim 2 wherein said focusing head is moveable relative to said clamp along said path of motion for moving said laser beam across the material. 4. The laser welding system as in claim 3 wherein said focusing head extends into said slot. 5. The laser welding system as in claim 3 further including a drive assembly operatively associated with said focusing head for moving said focusing head along said path of motion. 6. The laser welding system as in claim 5 further including a computer controller operatively linked to said drive assembly for controlling said drive assembly to control the movement of said focusing head. 7. The laser welding system as in claim 5 wherein said drive assembly moves said focusing head along an X axis. 8. The laser welding system as in claim 5 wherein said drive assembly moves said focusing head along an X axis and a Y axis. 9. The laser welding system as in claim 1 further including a clamp support member extending downwardly from said lower plate of each said clamp for elevating each said clamp above a work surface. 10. The laser welding system as in claim 9 wherein said clamp support member is constructed of a resilient material. 11. The laser welding system as in claim 9 wherein said clamp support member is removably securable to said work surface. 12. The laser welding system as in claim 11 wherein said work surface includes a plurality of apertures for engagement with said clamp support member to thereby removably secure said clamp support member to said work surface. 13. The laser welding system as in claim 1 further including a computer-controlled clamp actuator for moving said upper plate relative to said lower plate between a first closed position and a second opened position. 14. A laser welding system for welding sheets of material together, said system comprising: a laser beam source for generating and supplying a laser beam; at least one clamp having a lower plate and an upper pilate moveable relative to said lower plate for squeezing together associated upper and lower sheets positioned therebetween; a fiber optic cable for each said clamp, said cable having a first end coupled to said laser beam source and a second end coupled to said clamp for transmitting a laser beam from said laser beam source to said clamp; and a focusing head secured to said clamp for coupling said second end of said cable to said clamp and for focusing said laser beam onto juxtaposed portions of the sheets to be welded; wherein each said clamp includes a slot extending through said clamp and said slot is horizontally positioned between said upper and lower plates to thereby allow vertically disposed co-planar edge portions of the sheets to be laser welded together. 15. The laser welding system as in claim 14 further including a laser beam delivery instrument operatively coupled to said laser beam source and each said cable for distributing said laser beam to each said cable by selectively passing said laser beam through said first end. 16. The laser welding system as in claim 15 wherein said laser beam delivery instrument distributes said laser beam to each said clamp sequentially. 17. The laser welding system as in claim 15 further including a computer controller for controlling said delivery instrument to control the distribution of said laser beam between each said clamp. 18. The laser welding system as in claim 14 wherein said slot defines a path of motion. 19. The laser welding system as in claim 14 wherein said focusing head extends into said slot. 20. The laser welding system as in claim 14 further including a drive assembly operatively associated with said focusing head for moving said focusing head along said path of motion. 21. The laser welding system as in claim 20 including a computer controller operatively linked to said drive assembly for controlling said drive assembly to control the movement of said focusing head. 22. The laser welding system as in claim 20 wherein said drive assembly moves said focusing head along an X axis. 23. The laser welding system as in claim 20 wherein said drive assembly moves said focusing head along an X axis and a Y axis. 24. The laser welding system as in claim 14 further including a clamp support member extending downwardly from said lower plate of each said clamp for elevating each said clamp above a work surface. 25. The laser welding system as in claim 24 wherein said clamp support member is removably securable to said work surface. 26. The laser welding system as in claim 25 wherein said work surface includes a plurality of apertures for engagement with said clamp support member to thereby removably secure said clamp support member to said work surface. 27. The laser welding system as in claim 24 wherein said clamp support member is constructed of a resilient material. 28. The laser welding system as in claim 24 wherein said clamp support member is movable relative to said work surface so as to vary the vertical distance between each said clamp and said work surface. 29. The laser welding system as in claim 24 wherein said clamp support member is movable so as to vary the horizontal position of said clamp support member relative to said work surface. 30. The laser welding system as in claim 14 further including a computer-controlled clamp actuator for moving said upper plate relative to said lower plate between a first closed position and a second opened position. 