An apparatus for orienting and feeding articles or parts that is particularly adapted for use in an automated assembly system and has a feeder bowl that includes a helical internal track which terminates at the upper edge of the bowl adjacent to an annular feeder ring mounted for selective rotational movement around the feeder bowl to receive parts P therefrom. A control circuit including a stationary camera positioned above the annular feeder ring acts to control rotational movement of the annular feeder ring by an operatively connected motor in order to bring successive portions of the annular feeder ring into a predetermined vision field of the camera in order that correctly oriented parts can be differentiated by incorrectly oriented parts and a signal then provided to a pick-and-place robot to remove the correctly oriented parts. A sweeper bar is positioned at a selected location to urge incorrectly oriented parts off of the annular feeder ring and back into the feeder bowl for recycling. An alternative embodiment of the vibratory feeder bowl is also provided which utilizes a second selectively rotatable disk in concentric and spaced-apart relationship to the feeder ring to receive retrieved parts removed from the annular feeder ring in receptacles provided on the ring.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a vibratory part-feeding device of the type comprising a feeder bowl in which a generally helical track is formed that extends around the inner periphery of the bowl and which has a terminal portion at the upper edge of the bowl, feeder bowl vibrator means for vibrating the bowl to move parts onto the track and upwardly along the track to the terminal portion thereof wherein at least a portion of the parts are oriented in a correct predetermined position, the improvement comprising: (a) a rotatably movable annular feeder ring surrounding the upper edge portion of the feeder bowl and having a substantially flat part-supporting surface that is generally in line with the terminal portion of the helical track; (b) means supporting the annular feeder ring for rotation about the feeder bowl; (c) annular feeder ring drive means for intermittently rotating the annular ring about the feeder bowl by being selectively started and stopped; (d) robot means for removing selected parts from the annular feeder ring and depositing them at a predetermined new location; (e) circuit means comprising a camera positioned above a portion of the annular feeder ring and acting to detect parts on the ring and signal the drive means to stop rotation of the annular ring and then signal the robot to effect removal of correctly positioned parts from the annular feeder ring and to deposit them at a predetermined new location while the annular ring is stationary, and to then signal the drive means to continue rotation of the annular ring so as to rotate a new parts-carrying portion of the annular ring into the camera's field of view; and (f) means for returning improperly positioned parts rejected by the robot means and remaining on the annular ring to the feeder bowl for recycling. 2. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the annular feeder ring is between about 12 to 36 inches in diameter and is driven by the drive means at a variable speed. 3. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the annular feeder ring defines a plurality of teeth around the perimeter thereof that are adapted to be drivingly engaged by a sprocket connected to the annular ring drive means. 4. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the means supporting the annular feeder ring for rotation comprises a plurality of stationary bearings that are spaced-apart around the perimeter of the annular ring for supportingly engaging the same during rotation. 5. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 4 wherein 3 of the bearings are spaced around the perimeter of the annular feeder ring. 6. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the annular feeder ring drive means comprises a servo motor. 7. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the robot means comprises a pick-and-place robot. 8. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the circuit means comprises a camera fixedly positioned over a selected viewing area of the annular feeder ring, and the annular ring is formed from translucent material and provided with backlighting therebeneath to facilitate the camera detecting correctly oriented parts. 9. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 8 wherein the annular feeder ring is formed from a translucent material comprising polycarbonate. 10. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 wherein the means for returning improperly positioned parts remaining on the annular feeder ring comprises an elongate guide transversing the annular ring and extending generally toward the feeder bowl, said elongate guide being positioned downstream of the location where the robot means removes selected parts from the rotating annular ring. 11. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 1 including a rotatably movable annular fixture ring surrounding the annular feeder ring and concentric therewith, the annular fixture ring being selectively rotated around the annular feeder ring by annular fixture ring drive means in operative connection with the circuit means, the circuit means further serving to signal the robot to deposit correctly positioned parts removed from the annular feeder ring onto selected locations on the fixture ring as the fixture ring is selectively rotated by the circuit means to receive the correctly positioned parts from the robot. 12. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 11 wherein said annular fixture ring includes a plurality of receptacles for parts deposited thereon. 13. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 12 wherein the receptacles each define a plurality of compartments for receiving different parts, and the signals from the circuit means to the robot cause the robot to deposit the different parts into their respective corresponding compartments in the receptacles of the annular fixture ring. 14. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 11 wherein a plurality of different parts are fed to the feeder bowl by a corresponding plurality of hoppers and operatively associated weighing devices that deposit the parts onto a conveyor belt that in turn transports the parts to the feeder bowl. 15. In a vibratory part-feeding device of the type comprising a feeder bowl in which a generally helical track is formed that extends around the inner periphery of the bowl and which has a terminal portion at the upper edge of the bowl, feeder bowl vibrator means for vibrating the bowl to move parts onto the track and upwardly along the track to the terminal portion thereof wherein at least a portion of the parts are oriented in a correct predetermined position, the improvement comprising: (a) a rotatably movable annular feeder ring surrounding the upper edge portion of the feeder bowl and having a substantially flat part-supporting surface that is generally in line with the terminal portion of the helical track; (b) means supporting the annular feeder ring for rotation about the feeder bowl; (c) annular feeder ring drive means for intermittently rotating the annular ring about the feeder bowl by being selectively started and stopped; (d) robot means for removing selected parts from the annular feeder ring and depositing them at a predetermined new location; (e) circuit means comprising a camera positioned above a portion of the annular feeder ring to detect parts on the ring and signal the drive means to stop rotation of the annular ring and then signal the robot to effect removal of correctly positioned parts from the annular feeder ring and to deposit them at a predetermined new location while the annular ring is stationary, and to then signal the drive means to continue rotation of the annular ring so as to rotate a new parts-carrying portion of the annular ring into the camera's field of view; (f) a rotatably movable annular fixture ring surrounding the annular feeder ring and concentric therewith, said annular fixture ring being selectively rotated around the annular feeder ring by annular fixture ring drive means in operative connection with the circuit means, the circuit means further serving to signal the robot to deposit correctly positioned parts removed from the annular feeder ring onto selected locations on the fixture ring as the fixture ring is selectively rotated by the circuit means to receive the correctly positioned parts from the robot; and (g) means for returning improperly positioned parts rejected by the robot means and remaining on the annular ring to the feeder bowl for recycling. 16. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the annular feeder ring is between about 12 to 36 inches in diameter and is driven by the feeder ring drive means at a variable speed. 17. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the annular feeder ring defines a plurality of teeth around the perimeter thereof that are adapted to be drivingly engaged by a sprocket connected to the annular ring drive means. 18. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the means supporting the annular feeder ring for rotation comprises a plurality of stationary bearings that are spaced-apart around the perimeter of the annular ring for supportingly engaging the same during rotation. 19. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 18 wherein 3 of the bearings are spaced around the perimeter of the annular feeder ring. 20. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the annular feeder ring drive means comprises a servo motor. 21. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the robot means comprises a pick-and-place robot. 22. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the circuit means comprises a camera fixedly positioned over a selected viewing area of the annular feeder ring, and the annular feeder ring is formed from translucent material and provided with backlighting therebeneath to facilitate the camera detecting correctly oriented parts. 23. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 22 wherein the annular feeder ring is formed from a translucent material comprising polycarbonate. 24. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the annular fixture ring is between about 24 to 48 inches in diameter and is driven by the drive means at a variable speed. 25. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the annular fixture ring drive means comprises a servo motor. 26. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the annular fixture ring is rotatably mounted on a plurality of spaced-apart bearings for rotation around the annular feeder ring. 27. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein said annular fixture ring includes a plurality of receptacles for parts deposited thereon. 28. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 27 wherein the receptacles each define a plurality of compartments for receiving different parts, and the signals from the circuit means to the robot cause the robot to deposit the different parts into their respective corresponding compartments in the receptacles of the annular fixture ring. 29. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein a plurality of different parts are fed to the feeder bowl by a corresponding plurality of hoppers and operatively associated weighing devices that deposit the parts onto a conveyor belt that in turn transports the parts to the feeder bowl. 30. In a vibratory part-feeding device according to claim 15 wherein the means for returning improperly positioned parts remaining on the annular feeder ring comprises an elongate guide transversing the annular ring and extending generally toward the feeder bowl, said elongate guide being positioned downstream of the location where the robot means removes selected parts from the rotating annular ring. 