An automated component placement apparatus for use in populating circuit boards with electronic components. The apparatus includes a plurality of toolheads for picking up and placing components, a plurality of component feeders, a transport means to move PC boards between PC board assembly areas for placement of components, and a plurality of gantry systems for moving the toolheads between the component supply stations and PC board assembly areas. A plurality of programmable controllers actuates both the toolheads to grip or release components and the gantry systems to move the toolheads between the component supply stations and PC board assembly areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated component placement apparatus comprising: a plurality of toolheads adapted to pick up and release components; a plurality of component feeder stations, each adapted to continuously supply components to allow the toolheads to pick up components for placement on PC boards; a plurality of PC board assembly areas for releasably receiving and supporting PC boards; a transport means for moving the PC boards between the PC board assembly areas; a plurality of gantry systems, each gantry system including a horizontal drive means and a generally horizontal linear track, the horizontal drive means for supporting and driving an associated one of the plurality of toolheads in a generally horizontal direction along the generally horizontal linear track between at least one of the plurality of component feeder stations and at least one of the plurality of PC board assembly areas; and a programmable controller means coupled to the plurality of toolheads and the plurality of gantry systems and for causing each of the plurality of toolheads to move from a position at at least one of the plurality of component feeder stations to at least one of the plurality of PC board assembly areas and for further causing each of the plurality of toolheads to pick up components at at least one of the plurality of component feeder stations and place the components at a desired location on the PC boards. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of gantry systems includes: a vertical drive means for driving an associated one of the plurality of toolheads in a generally vertical direction. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the plurality of component feeder stations includes means for receiving a supply reel of tape-mounted components. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein at least one of the plurality of component feeder stations includes means for receiving a supply reel of tape-mounted components which is contained within a supply cartridge. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the plurality of component feeder stations includes means for releasably receiving supply cartridges of components; and the apparatus further includes: a supply cartridge conveyor to convey supply cartridges to and from each one of the plurality of component feeder stations; and a supply cartridge loading means positioned at the supply cartridge conveyor to unload empty supply cartridges from the plurality of component feeder stations and load full supply cartridges into the plurality of component feeder stations. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the plurality of toolheads, the plurality of gantry systems, and the plurality of component feeder stations are positioned adjacent to one another. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the plurality of toolheads, the plurality of gantry systems, and the plurality of component feeder stations are generally parallel to one another and a common PC board transport means passes generally perpendicularly across the plurality of toolheads, the plurality of gantry systems, and the plurality of component feeder stations. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the plurality of gantry systems, an associated one of the component feeder stations, and an associated one of the plurality of toolheads has a dedicated programmable controller means. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 and further including a work station interfaced to the programmable controller means. 