The working apparatus comprises a manipulator 1 having three axes, a working unit 10, 20, and a universal coupling 7 for connecting the manipulator 1 and the working unit 10, 20. The working unit 10, 20 has a working portion 12, 22 for rotatably and surface contacting an objective working surface 19, 79. The universal coupling 7 is rotatable about any two axes. The manipulator 401 may be secured to a hatch opening portion 410 of an aircraft by means of a holding jig 406.
Claims We claim: 1. A working robot, comprising: an articulated manipulator arm having a number of articulations ranging from two to four; a working unit having a working portion for surface contacting in a freely rotatable manner an objective working surface; and a universal coupling for coupling said manipulator and said working unit, said universal coupling being freely rotatable about two axes, wherein said universal coupling has a pair of potentiometers, each detecting an angle of rotation of said working unit about one of said rotation axes. 2. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said working unit has force detecting means for detecting the force with which said working portion presses against said objective working surface. 3. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said manipulator has force detecting means for detecting the force with which said working portion presses against said objective working surface. 4. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said working apparatus has a plurality of working portions, of which, adjacent working portions are reversely rotated. 5. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a spring, provided between said working unit and said universal coupling, for positioning said working unit. 6. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said working unit has a counterweight opposed to said working portion. 7. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a connecting jig, disposed between said manipulator and said universal coupling, for attaching said universal coupling with a desired orientation. 8. The working apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said connecting jig is rotatable about a rotation shaft. 9. A working robot, comprising: an articulated SCARA robot, which is a selective compliance assembly robot arm, having a number of articulations ranging from two to four; a working unit having a working portion for surface contacting in a freely rotatable manner an objective working surface; a base for holding said SCARA robot; and a universal coupling for coupling said SCARA robot and said working unit, said universal coupling being freely rotatable about two axes, wherein said universal coupling has a pair of potentiometers, each detecting an angle of rotation of said working unit about one of said rotation axes. 