A quality control system (104) comprises at least one test system (107) and a host computer (122) having a database (130), coupled via a communication link (124). The test system (107) interfaces (120) with a product (118) and obtains its product identifier. The test system (107) outputs, to the host computer (122), an empty file named for the product identifier and a label indicating the type of data to request. The host computer (122), responsive to reading the file name of the empty file, queries the database (130) according to the product identifier and the label. The host computer (122) renames the empty file according to the requested data retrieved via the query. The test system (107), responsive to reading the renamed empty file, tests the product (118) according to the requested data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A quality control system comprising a test system, the test system comprising: an interface to obtain a product identifier from a product; a communication link ; and a controller coupled to the interface and the communication link, the controller, responsive to receiving the product identifier at the interface, to retrieve data about the product by creating a request file via the communication link, the request file being an empty file with a file name comprising a product identifier field and a requested data type field, the product identifier field corresponding to the product identifier received at the interface, and the requested data type field selected by the controller to correspond to a type of prestored data of the product. 2. The quality control system according to claim 1 wherein the controller reads a file name of a return file via the communication link, the return file being an empty file with a file name comprising the product identifier field and a requested data field, the requested data field containing the prestored data of the product associated with the requested data type field. 3. The quality control system according to claim 1 further comprising a host computer coupled to the communication link, the host computer comprising a database containing the prestored data of the product, the host computer, responsive to reading the file name of the request file, to query the database for the type of prestored data of the product using the file name of the request file and, thereafter, to rename the request file to create a return file, the return file being an empty file with a file name comprising the product identifier field and a requested data field, the requested data field containing the prestored data of the product associated with the requested data type field. 4. The quality control system according to claim 3 wherein the request file has a first predetermined length, and the return file has a second predetermined length, the second predetermined length greater than the first predetermined length. 5. The quality control system according to claim 3 wherein the host computer further comprises a shared file directory, the shared file directory accessible by the controller via the communication link, the shared file directory to hold the request file. 6. A quality control system according to claim 1 further comprising: a host computer, the host computer comprising: a database containing a plurality of data; and a database server coupled to the communication link and the database, the database server, responsive to reading the file name of the request file via the communication link, to query the database for the prestored data of the product using the file name of the request file and, thereafter, to create a return file readable via the communication link, the return file being an empty file having a file name comprising the product identifier field and a requested data field, the requested data field containing the prestored data of the product queried by the database. 7. The quality control system according to claim 6 wherein the request file has a first predetermined length, and the return file has a second predetermined length, the second predetermined length greater than the first predetermined length. 8. The quality control system according to claim 6 wherein the host computer further comprises a shared resource manager having a shared file directory, the shared file directory accessible by the database server and accessible by controller via the communication link, the shared file directory to hold the request file. 9. The quality control system according to claim 1 wherein the product identifier is a bar-code placed on the product. 10. The quality control system according to claim 1 wherein the product identifier is an electronic serial number stored within the product. 11. A method of messaging in a quality control system, the method comprising steps of: interfacing with a product to obtain a product identifier therefrom; creating, by a first computer, a request file in a directory, the request file being an empty file with a file name comprising a product identifier field and a requested data type field, the product identifier field corresponding to the product identifier, and the requested data type field corresponding to a type of prestored data of the product; and polling, by the first computer, the directory for a return file, the return file being an empty file with a file name comprising the product identifier field and prestored data of the product. 12. The method according to claim 11 further comprising the steps of: polling, by a second computer, the directory for the request file; reading, by the second computer, the file name of the request file when polling by the second computer is successful; extracting, by the second computer, the product identifier field and the requested data type field from the file name of the request file; querying, by the second computer, a database for prestored data of the product using the product identifier field and the requested data type field; and renaming, by the second computer, the request file to create the return file with a file name comprising a the product identifier field and a requested data field, the requested data field containing the prestored data of the product. 13. The method according to claim 11 further comprising the steps of: waiting, by the first computer, for a predetermined period of time prior to the step of polling; reading, by the first computer, the file name of the return file when polling is successful; extracting, by the first computer, prestored data of the product from the file name of the return file. 14. The method according to claim 13 further comprising the step of: purging, by the first computer, the return file from the directory following the step of extracting by the first computer. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the step of extracting by the first computer is followed by a step of testing the product according to the prestored data of the product. 16. The method according to claim 11 further comprising the step of purging, by the first computer, the request file from the directory when polling by the first computer is unsuccessful. 17. A quality control system employing bi-directional messaging, the quality control system comprising: a communication link; a host computer comprising a shared resource manager, a database server, and a database, the shared resource manager coupled to the communication link, the database server coupled to the shared resource manager and the database, the shared resource manager providing a shared file directory to hold files, the database containing a plurality of product data, the database server operable to query the database and to create and read files held in said shared file directory; and a test system comprising an interface, test equipment and a controller, the interface operable to interface with a product and retrieve a product identifier therefrom, the controller coupled to the interface and to the shared file directory via the communication link, the controller operable to create and read files in said shared file directory, and wherein the controller, upon retrieval of the product identifier, creates a request file in the shared file directory, the request file being an empty file with a file name comprising the product identifier and a prestored requested data type, and the database server, upon reading the file name of the request file, queries the database for product data according to the product identifier and the prestored requested data type, the database server, upon retrieval of the product data, creates a return file in the shared file directory by renaming the request file, the return file having a file name comprising the product identifier and the retrieved product data, the controller to read the file name of the return file to extract the product data therefrom, thereby, accomplish bi-directional messaging between the test system and the database. 