A support system for supporting an underwater work platform includes a work platform submerged in a body of water and a support structure supported by the body of water above the work platform. The work platform is supported by a plurality of cables connected between the support structure and the work platform. Motions of the support structure in the body of water are sensed, and the length of the cables is adjusted in response to the sensed motions of the support structure so that the work platform can be maintained stationary even when the support structure is subjected to wave forces and currents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A support system for supporting an underwater work platform in a controlled underwater position comprising: a work platform submerged in a body of water; a support structure capable supported by the body of water above the work platform; a plurality of cables connected between the support structure and the work platform for supporting the work platform; motion sensing means associated with the support structure for sensing motion of the support structure in the body of water; and length adjusting means responsive to the motion sensing means for adjusting a length of at least one of the cables in response to the sensed motions of the support structure. 2. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the support structure is totally submerged in the body of water. 3. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the adjusting means comprises a plurality of winches mounted on the support structure, each winch being connected to one of the cables. 4. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the work platform includes a deck having openings through which water can pass as the work platform moves in the body of water. 5. The support system according to claim 1 including a ballast system for adjusting the buoyancy of the work platform. 6. The support system according to claim 5 wherein the work platform comprises hollow members forming a frame, and the ballast system comprises means for inserting a material lighter than water into the hollow members. 7. The support system according to claim 1 including a propulsion device mounted on the work platform for propelling the work platform and the upper platform. 8. The support system according to claim 1 wherein each cable is sloped with respect to a vertical line by at least approximately 6 degrees when no horizontal forces are acting on the work platform. 9. The support system according to claim 1 wherein: the work platform has three lower support points defining a lower triangle; the support structure has three upper support points defining an upper triangle; and the cables comprise six cables, two of the cables being connected to the work platform in a vicinity of each of the lower support points and two of the cables being supported by the support structure in a vicinity of each of the upper support points. 10. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the support structure comprises a plurality of vessels floating in the body of water, each of the vessels supporting at least one of the cables. 11. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the motion sensing means comprises means for sensing at least one of roll, yaw, and pitch of the support structure. 12. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the motion sensing means comprises means for sensing at least one of horizontal and vertical movement of the support structure. 13. The support system according to claim 1 further comprising: tension sensing means for sensing a tension of at least one of the cables; and means for adjusting the buoyancy of the work platform in response to changes in the sensed tension. 14. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the support structure comprises an omnidirectional barge. 15. A support system for supporting an underwater work platform in a controlled underwater position comprising: a work platform capable of being submerged in a body of water; a support structure capable of being supported by the body of water above the work platform; a plurality of cables connected between the work platform and the support structure for supporting the work platform; tension sensing means associated with at least one of the cables for sensing a tension of the at least one of the cables; and buoyancy adjusting means responsive to the tension sensing means for adjusting buoyancy of the work platform in response to changes in the sensed tension. 16. A support system for supporting an underwater work platform comprising: a work platform submerged in a body of water and having three lower support points defining a lower equilateral triangle; a support structure supported by the body of water above the work platform and having three upper support points defining an upper equilateral triangle; six cables connected between the work platform and the support structure and supporting the work platform, two of the cables being connected to the work platform in a vicinity of each of the lower support points and two of the cables being supported by the support structure in a vicinity of each of the upper support points; six winches mounted on the support structure, each winch connected to a corresponding one of the cables for adjusting the length of the corresponding cable; motion sensing means for sensing motion of the support structure in the body of water; and means for operating the winches in response to the sensed motion to adjust the lengths of the cables to compensate for the motions of the support structure. 17. A method for controlling an underwater work platform comprising: supporting a work platform submerged in a body of water by a plurality of cables connected between the work platform and a support structure disposed above the work platform; sensing a tension in at least one of the cables; and adjusting the buoyancy of the work platform in response to changes in the sensed tension. 18. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the motion sensing means comprises means for sensing rotation and horizontal and vertical translation of the support structure. 19. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the length adjusting means adjusts the length of at least one of the cables to compensate for sensed rotational motion of the support structure to maintain the work platform substantially stationary. 20. The support system according to claim 19 wherein the length adjusting means adjusts the length of at least one of the cables to compensate for sensed translational motion of the support structure to maintain the work platform substantially stationary. 21. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the length adjusting means adjusts the length of at least one of the cables to compensate for sensed horizontal translational motion of the support structure to maintain the work platform substantially stationary. 22. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the length adjusting means can adjust the position and attitude of the work platform with six degrees of freedom. 23. The support system according to claim 1 including three or more of the cables, wherein the length adjusting means can independently adjust the lengths of the three cables. 24. The support system according to claim 23 wherein the cables are connected to the work platform at three lower support points defining a triangle. 25. The support system according to claim 8 wherein the work platform is kinematically constrained with respect to the support structure in six degrees of freedom. 26. The support system according to claim 9 wherein each of the upper support points is connected to one of the lower support points by one of the cables and is connected to another of the lower support points by another of the cables. 27. The support system according to claim 16 wherein each of the upper support points is connected to one of the lower support points by one of the cables and is connected to another of the lower support points by another of the cables. 28. The support system according to claim 1 wherein the cables are connected to the work platform at three lower support points defining a triangle. 29. The support system according to claim 28 wherein the lower support points define an equilateral triangle. 30. The support system according to claim 9 wherein each of the cables is sloped with respect to a vertical line by at least approximately 6 degrees when no horizontal force is acting on the work platform and the work platform is kinematically constrained with respect to the support structure in six degrees of freedom. 31. A support system for supporting an underwater work platform in a controlled underwater position comprising: a work platform submerged in a body of water and having three lower support points defining a lower triangle; a support structure supported by the body of water above the work platform and having three upper support points defining an upper triangle; six cables connected between the work platform and the support structure and supporting the work platform, each of the upper support points being connected to one of the lower support points by one of the cables and connected to another of the lower support points by another of the cables; and length adjusting means operatively associated with at least two of the cables for independently adjusting the lengths of the at least two of the cables. 32. The support system according to claim 31 wherein the length adjusting means comprises means for independently adjusting the lengths of all six cables. 33. The support system according to claim 31 wherein the length adjusting means adjusts the length of one or more of the cables to move the work platform horizontally while maintaining an attitude of the work platform substantially constant. 34. The support system according to claim 31 wherein the length adjusting means comprises means for adjusting the lengths of at least two of the cables to maneuver the work platform with six degrees of freedom. 35. A support system for supporting an underwater work platform comprising: a work platform submerged in a body of water and having three lower support points defining a lower triangle; a support structure comprising a plurality of vessels floating in the body of water above the work platform and having three support points defining an upper triangle, each vessel having at least one of the support points; and six cables connected between the work platform and the support structure and supporting the work platform, each of the upper support points being connected to one of the lower support points by one of the cables and connected to another of the lower support points by another of the cables. 36. A support system for supporting an underwater work platform in a controlled underwater position comprising: a work platform submerged in a body of water; a support structure capable supported by the body of water above the work platform; a plurality of cables connected between the support structure and the work platform for supporting the work platform; and length adjusting means operatively associated with the cables for adjusting lengths of one or more of the cables to move the work platform relative to the support structure with six degrees of freedom. 37. The support system according to claim 36 wherein the length adjusting means adjusts lengths of the cables to maintain all the cables in tension while moving the work platform. 38. The support system according to claim 36 including motion sensing means for sensing rotational and translational motions of the support structure, wherein the length adjusting means adjust the length of one or more of the cables in response to the sensed motions to compensate for the sensed motions and maintain the work platform substantially stationary. 39. A method for controlling an underwater position of an underwater work platform comprising: supporting a work platform submerged in a body of water by six cables connected between three lower support points on the work platform and three upper support points on a support structure floating in the body of water above the work platform, each of the upper support points being connected to one of the lower support points by one of the cables and connected to another of the lower support points by another of the cables; sensing motion of the support structure in the body of water; and adjusting the length of at least one of the cables in response to the sensed motion of the support structure to compensate for the sensed motion to maintain the work platform substantially stationary. 40. The method according to claim 39 including adjusting the length of at least one of the cables to compensate for rotation of the support structure. 41. The method according to claim 39 including adjusting the length of at least one of the cables to compensate for horizontal translation of the support structure while maintaining an attitude of the work platform substantially constant. 42. The method according to claim 39 including maintaining all six cables in tension while adjusting the length of at least one of the cables. 43. A support system for supporting an underwater body in a controlled position comprising: a first body submerged in water; a second body supported by the water above the first body; a plurality of tension members extending between lower support points on the first body and upper support points on the second body, each of the upper support points being connected with one of the lower support points by one of the tension members and connected to another of the lower support points by another of the tension members; a plurality of length adjusting mechanisms each associated with a corresponding one of the tension members for adjusting a length of the corresponding tension member. 44. A support system according to claim 43 including a motion sensor associated with the second body and sensing motion of the second body in the water and a controller responsive to the motion sensor and controlling the length adjusting mechanisms based on the sensed motion to maintain the first body stationary. 45. A support system according to claim 44 including three lower support points defining a triangle on the first body and three upper support points defining a triangle on the second body. 46. A method of controlling a position of an underwater body comprising: supporting a first body submerged in water by a plurality of tension members connected between a plurality of lower support points on the first body and a plurality of upper support points on a second body floating in the water above the first body, each of the upper support points being connected to one of the lower support points by one of the tension members and connected to another of the lower support points by another of the tension members; adjusting lengths of a plurality of the tension members while maintaining all the tension members in tension to adjust a position of the first body. 