A robot with a moveable arm is taught precise position data for the various locations it must attain during operation. The arm moves vertically, radially and angularly and is provided with an end effector which is used to grip the object being transported by the robot. The end effector is modified to allow effective position training before normal operation and to provide a warning signal during normal operation. Horizontal locations are taught by recording the angular and radial coordinates at which a modified section of the end effector is lined up with a vertical locating beam. Vertical positions are taught by recording the vertical coordinates at which a second locating signal is detected at the front edge of the end effector. This signal also serves as a warning signal during normal operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for teaching a spatial location to a robot having an arm equipped with an end effector operating in a work space where said spatial location is defined by planar coordinates and by a vertical coordinate, said apparatus comprising: a) a first signal source for generating a first locating beam; b) a through-hole in said end effector for passing said first locating beam when said end effector is at a desired planar position; c) a first signal intercepting means for intercepting said first locating beam after said first locating beam has passed said through-hole; d) a second signal source mounted on said end effector for generating a second locating beam; e) a vertical calibration means for reflecting said second locating beam when said end effector is at a desired vertical position; and f) a second signal intercepting means mounted on said end effector for intercepting said second locating beam after said second locating beam has been reflected. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said planar coordinates comprise a radius R and an angle .theta., and said vertical coordinate comprises a height Z. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first signal source is a first light source and said first locating beam is a first light beam. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first signal intercepting means is a reflector for reflecting said first light beam back to said first light source and said apparatus further comprises a photo detector at said first light source for detecting said first light beam after reflection from said reflector and for generating a first teaching signal. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first intercepting means is a first photo detector for detecting said first light beam and generating a first teaching signal. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second signal source is a second light source, said second signal beam is a second light beam and said second intercepting means is a second photo detector for generating a second teaching signal. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second signal source is a second sonic source, said second signal beam is a second sonic beam and said second intercepting means is a second sonic detector for generating a second teaching signal. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second signal source and said second intercepting means are mounted at the front edge of said end effector. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said vertical calibration means comprises a processing station with workpieces to be handled by said end effector. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said workpieces are semiconductor wafers and said second locating beam is reflected by the edges of said semiconductor wafers. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said work space is defined by a processing chamber. 12. An apparatus for teaching a spatial location to a robot having an arm equipped with an end effector operating in a work space where said spatial location is defined by planar coordinates and by a vertical coordinate, said apparatus comprising: a) a first signal source for generating a first locating beam; b) a reflecting means on said end effector for reflecting said first locating beam when said end effector is at a desired planar position; c) a first signal intercepting means for intercepting said first locating beam after said first locating beam has been reflected by said reflecting means; d) a second signal source mounted on said end effector for generating a second locating beam; e) a vertical calibration means for reflecting said second locating beam when said end effector is at a desired vertical position; and f) a second signal intercepting means mounted on said end effector for intercepting said second locating beam after said second locating beam has been reflected. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said planar coordinates comprise a radius R and an angle .theta., and said vertical coordinate comprises a height Z. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said first signal source is a first light source and said first locating beam is a first light beam. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said first intercepting means is a first photo detector for detecting said first light beam and generating a first teaching signal. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said second signal source is a second light source, said second signal beam is a second light beam and said second intercepting means is a second photo detector for generating a second teaching signal. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said second signal source is a second sonic source, said second signal beam is a second sonic beam and said second intercepting means is a second sonic detector for generating a second teaching signal. 18. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said second signal source and said second intercepting means are mounted at the front edge of said end effector. 19. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said vertical calibration means comprises a processing station with workpieces to be handled by said end effector. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said workpieces are semiconductor wafers and said second locating beam is reflected by the edges of said semiconductor wafers. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said work space is defined by a processing chamber. 22. A method for teaching a spatial location to a robot having an arm equipped with an end effector operating in a work space where said spatial location is defined by planar coordinates and by a vertical coordinate, said method comprising the following steps: a) generating a first locating beam using a first signal source; b) providing a through-hole in said end effector for passing said first locating beam when said end effector is at a desired planar position; c) intercepting said first locating beam after said first locating beam has passed said through-hole; d) generating a second locating beam using a second signal source mounted on said end effector; e) reflecting said second locating beam from a vertical calibration means when said end effector is at a desired vertical position; and f) intercepting said second locating beam after said second locating beam has been reflected. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said planar coordinates comprise a radius R and an angle .theta., and said vertical coordinate comprises a height Z. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein said first signal source is a first light source and said first locating beam is a first light beam. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said first intercepting means is a reflector such that said first light beam is reflected back to said first light source and said method further comprises the step of detecting said first light beam after reflection from said reflector by a photo detector mounted at said first light source and generating a first teaching signal. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein said first intercepting means is a first photo detector for detecting said first light beam and generating a first teaching signal. 27. The method of claim 22 wherein said second signal source is a second light source, said second signal beam is a second light beam and said second intercepting means is a second photo detector for generating a second teaching signal. 28. The method of claim 22 wherein said desired planar position is determined before determining said desired vertical position. 29. The method of claim 22 wherein said second locating beam propagates in the plane defined by said planar coordinates, and said method further comprises the steps of: a) emitting said second locating beam while said robot is in operation; and b) generating a warning signal when said second locating beam is reflected to said second intercepting means. 30. A method for teaching a spatial location to a robot having an arm equipped with an end effector operating in a work space where said spatial location is defined by planar coordinates and by a vertical coordinate, said method comprising the following steps: a) generating a first locating beam using a first signal source; b) providing a reflecting means on said end effector for reflecting said first locating beam when said end effector is at a desired planar position; c) intercepting said first locating beam after said first locating beam has been reflected by said reflecting means; d) generating a second locating beam using a second signal source mounted on said end effector; e) reflecting said second locating beam from a vertical calibration means when said end effector is at a desired vertical position; and f) intercepting said second locating beam after said second locating beam has been reflected. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein said planar coordinates comprise a radius R and an angle .theta., and said vertical coordinate comprises a height Z. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein said first signal source is a first light source and said first locating beam is a first light beam. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein said first intercepting means is a first photo detector for detecting said first light beam and generating a first teaching signal. 34. The method of claim 30 wherein said second signal source is a second light source, said second signal beam is a second light beam and said second intercepting means is a second photo detector for generating a second teaching signal. 35. The method of claim 30 wherein said desired planar position is determined before determining said desired vertical position. 36. The method of claim 30 wherein said second locating beam propagates in the plane defined by said planar coordinates, and said method further comprises the steps of: a) emitting said second locating beam while said robot is in operation; and b) generating a warning signal when said second locating beam is reflected to said second intercepting means. 