A sterile adaptor, a sterile drape with the integrated sterile adaptor, and a telerobotic surgical system including the sterile drape are provided. The adaptor, drape, and system allow for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system to maintain a sterile barrier between the sterile surgical field and the non-sterile robotic system while also providing an interface for transferring mechanical and electrical energy and signals between a robotic arm and a surgical instrument in the sterile field.
Claims I claim: 1. A sterile adaptor, comprising: a housing; a retractor plate assembly coupled to the housing; a disc movably coupled to the retractor plate assembly, a first side of the disc couplable to a surgical instrument, and a second side of the disc couplable to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, the disc capable of transmitting torque from the manipulator arm to the surgical instrument; an electrical contact that provides electrical connectivity between the manipulator arm and the surgical instrument, wherein the electrical contact includes a break that delays electrical engagement of the instrument with the adaptor; and an integrated circuit operably coupled to the electrical contact, the integrated circuit providing an encrypted key for authentication of the adaptor. 2. The sterile adaptor of claim 1, wherein the retractor plate assembly includes a spring plate between an upper retractor plate and a lower retractor plate, the spring plate including an aperture with leaves for movably coupling to the disc. 3. The sterile adaptor of claim 1, wherein the electrical contact is positioned at an angle relative to a horizontal plane of the housing. 4. The sterile adaptor of claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit further provides for one of presence notification of the adaptor and identification data of a mounted instrument. 5. The sterile adaptor of claim 1, further comprising an electrostatic protective cover over a chip. 6. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface adjacent to the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; and a sterile adaptor for interfacing between a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system and a surgical instrument in the sterile field, the sterile adaptor including: a housing for receiving the sterile surgical instrument; a retractor plate assembly movably coupled to the housing; a disc movably coupled to the retractor plate assembly, a first side of the disc couplable to the sterile surgical instrument and a second side of the disc couplable to the manipulator arm, the disc capable of transmitting torque from the manipulator arm to the surgical instrument; an electrical contact that provides electrical connectivity between the manipulator arm and the surgical instrument, wherein the electrical contact includes a break that delays electrical engagement of the instrument with the adaptor; and an integrated circuit operably coupled to the electrical contact, the integrated circuit providing an encrypted key for authentication of the drape. 7. The sterile drape of claim 6, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, polycarbonate, and similar elastic durable materials. 8. The sterile drape of claim 6, wherein the retractor plate assembly includes a spring plate between an upper retractor plate and a lower retractor plate, the spring plate including an aperture with leaves for movably coupling to the disc. 9. The sterile drape of claim 6, wherein the electrical contact is positioned at an angle relative to a horizontal plane of the housing. 10. The sterile drape of claim 6, wherein the integrated circuit further provides for one of presence notification of the adaptor and identification data of a mounted instrument. 11. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape covering the manipulator arm to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field, the sterile drape having a sterile adaptor including: a housing for receiving the sterile surgical instrument; a retractor plate assembly movably coupled to the housing; a disc movably coupled to the retractor plate assembly, a first side of the disc couplable to the sterile surgical instrument and a second side of the disc couplable to the manipulator arm, the disc capable of transmitting torque from the manipulator arm to the surgical instrument; an electrical contact that provides electrical connectivity between the manipulator arm and the surgical instrument, wherein the electrical contact includes a break that delays electrical engagement of the instrument with the adaptor; and an integrated circuit operably coupled to the electrical contact, the integrated circuit providing an encrypted key for authentication of the drape. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the retractor plate assembly includes a spring plate between an upper retractor plate and a lower retractor plate, the spring plate including an aperture with leaves for movably coupling to the disc. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the electrical contact is positioned at an angle relative to a horizontal plane of the housing. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the integrated circuit further provides for one of presence notification of the adaptor and identification data of a mounted instrument. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 