The methods and devices of the invention include an encoder, an endoscopic robotic instrument, and an encoder/robotic instrument interface. A preferred embodiment of the encoder has a chest/shoulder plate provided with telescoping tubes and joints. Each joint is provided with a direct drive potentiometer to monitor movement and provide a corresponding signal. The chest plate is preferably adaptable to a large range of human chest sizes and the telescopic segments are strapped to the arms of the practitioner at the elbows. A pistol grip is provided at the wrist end of the telescopic segments. According to the presently preferred embodiment, the encoder encodes flexion and rotation at the shoulder, elbow and wrist of each arm in addition to gripping at each hand. The encoding device is coupled to a circuit which operates a servo system. The servo system includes a series of servo motors. A series of pulleys corresponding to the number of servo motors are arranged in a housing. The robotic instrument preferably comprises two arms mounted at the distal end of a multi-lumen tube. Each arm has rotational and flexional joints corresponding to the shoulder, elbow, and wrist of the practitioner. Tendons are coupled to the pulleys of the servo motors and are fed through the multi-lumen tube to the joints of the two arms.
Claims We claim: 1. An encoder for use in an endoscopic robotic surgical instrument having a pair of robotic arms locatable within a patient for performing an endoscopic procedure, said encoder comprising: a) a shoulder harness having a left shoulder plate and a right shoulder plate, said left shoulder plate fitting over the left shoulder of the practitioner and said right shoulder plate fitting over the right shoulder of the practitioner, said shoulder harness including strapping means for attaching said left shoulder plate to said right shoulder plate and for attaching said harness to the torso of the practitioner; b) a left articulate arm coupled to said left shoulder plate and having strapping means for attaching to the left arm of the practitioner; c) a right articulate arm coupled to said right shoulder plate and having strapping means for attaching to the right arm of the practitioner; and d) a plurality of transducers coupled to joints in said left and right articulate arms, wherein left and right arm movements of the practitioner are registered by said transducers, said transducers being capable of converting the registered movements into signals which are usable to operate the robotic arms. 2. An encoder according to claim 1, where the robotic arms have end effectors, said encoder further comprising: e) a left pistol grip coupled to said left articulate arm and being grippable by the left hand of the practitioner; and f) a right pistol grip coupled to said left articulate arm and being grippable by the right hand of the practitioner, wherein left and right hand gripping by the practitioner are registered by said pistol grips for conversion into transmissible signals to operate the end effectors. 3. An encoder according to claim 2, wherein: at least one of said left and right pistol grips is provided with feedback means for indicating resistive force met by the respective end effector. 4. An encoder according to claim 2, wherein: each of said pistol grips are coupled to said respective arms by respective L-shaped brackets. 5. An encoder according to claim 1, wherein: said transducers include potentiometers. 6. An encoder according to claim 1, wherein: each of said left articulate arm and said right articulate arm includes, i) a shoulder joint, and ii) an elbow joint. 7. An encoder according to claim 6, wherein: said shoulder joint and said elbow joint are coupled to each other by a telescoping member. 8. An encoder according to claim 6, wherein: said shoulder joint a posterior upper arm flexion joint, a lateral upper arm flexion joint and an upper arm rotation joint. 9. An encoder according to claim 8, wherein: said posterior upper arm flexion joint and said lateral upper arm flexion joint are spaced apart from each other by a ninety degree curved member. 10. An encoder according to claim 8, wherein: said plurality of transducers includes, a left posterior upper arm flexion joint transducer, a left lateral upper arm flexion joint transducer, a left upper arm rotation joint transducer, a right posterior upper arm flexion joint transducer, a right lateral upper arm flexion joint transducer, and a right upper arm rotation joint transducer. 11. An encoder according to claim 10, wherein: said posterior upper arm flexion joint transducers and said lateral upper arm flexion joint transducers are capable of registering approximately ninety degrees of movement, and said upper arm rotation joint transducers are capable of registering approximately one hundred eighty degrees of movement. 12. An encoder according to claim 6, wherein: said elbow joint includes a lower arm flexion joint and a lower arm rotation joint. 13. An encoder according to claim 12, wherein: said plurality of transducers includes, a left lower arm flexion joint transducer, a left lower arm rotation joint transducer, a right lower arm flexion joint transducer, and a right lower arm rotation joint transducer. 14. An encoder according to claim 13, wherein: said lower arm flexion joint transducers are capable of registering approximately one hundred twenty degrees of movement, and said lower arm rotation joint transducers are capable of registering approximately one hundred eighty degrees of movement. 15. An encoder according to claim 6, wherein: each of said left articulate arm and said right articulate arm further includes, iii) a wrist flexion joint. 16. An encoder according to claim 15, wherein: said plurality of transducers includes, a left wrist flexion joint transducer, and a right wrist flexion joint transducer. 17. An encoder according to claim 15, wherein: said elbow joint and said wrist joint are coupled to each other by a telescoping member. 18. An encoder according to claim 17, wherein: said telescoping member is lockable in a telescoped position. 19. An encoder according to claim 6, wherein: said plurality of transducers includes, a left shoulder joint transducer, a right shoulder joint transducer, a left elbow joint transducer, and a right elbow joint transducer. 