A device for removing runners from intermediate molded products includes a holding assembly for maintaining the products in a desired position, a hammer member, an assembly for vibrating the hammer member to cause repeated striking of the intermediate product so as to separate runner and product portions thereof and a control arrangement for selectively activating and deactivating the vibrating assembly. The control arrangement provides for positioning the vibrating assembly in at least one predetermined position upon deactivation thereof so as to enable the vibrating assembly to be readily restarted. The holding assembly can incorporate a robot arm for transporting and positioning the intermediate molded product for runner removal. In order to protect the robot arm from the effects of vibrational forces, the intermediate molded product is adapted to be resiliently attached to the robot arm.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for removing runner portions that are joined to product portions of an intermediate molded product by a gate zone comprising: means for holding one of the runner and product portions in a fixed position; a hammer member; means for vibrating said hammer member between a fully retracted position proximate a portion of said means for vibrating and a fully extended position distal said portion of said means for vibrating to cause repeated striking of said intermediate product by the hammer member when said hammer member is in its extended position for separating the runner and product portions at the gate zone, said vibrating means including a cylinder, a piston slidably received within the cylinder so as to define two variable volume chambers within the cylinder, and a piston rod having a first end secured to the piston and a second end extending out of said cylinder, said hammer member being fixedly secured to the second end of said piston rod; and control means for activating and deactivating said vibrating means, said control means positioning said hammer member in one of said fully retracted and fully extended positions upon deactivation of said vibrating means, said control means including an automatic switching valve for sequentially controlling compressed fluid flow to said two variable volume chambers and an atmospheric release valve for opening one of said to variable volume chambers to atmosphere upon deactivation of said vibrating means, said atmospheric release valve comprising a three-way valve that is in fluid communication with each of said two variable volume chambers and with an exhaust passage which passes from inside said cylinder to outside of said cylinder, said control means functioning to open said exhaust passage to atmosphere when said vibrating means is activated and to close said exhaust passage to prevent communication with atmosphere when said vibrating means is deactivated. 2. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said holding means engages the runner portion such that the product portion is supported in a cantilevered manner. 3. A device as claimed in claim 1, further including means for adjusting the position of said vibrating means relative to the gate zone. 4. A device as claimed in claim 3, wherein said adjusting means permits the position of said vibrating means to be altered in at least two dimensions. 5. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hammer member includes a resilient portion remote from said piston rod whereby the resilient portion strikes said intermediate product in said fully extended position. 6. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hammer member includes an internal channel having an open end within which said piston rod is slidably received. 7. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said holding means includes a selectively positionable robot arm and a holding assembly carried by said robot arm. 8. A device as claimed in claim 7, wherein said holding assembly is resiliently attached to the remote end of said robot arm. 9. A device as claimed in claim 8, wherein said holding assembly is removably attached to said robot arm. 10. A device as claimed in claim 7, further including first and second means for attaching said holding assembly to said robot arm, said first attaching means comprising a resilient connection between said holding assembly and a remote end of said robot arm and said second attaching means comprising at least one holding unit adapted to selectively, fixedly interconnect or disconnect said holding assembly and said robot arm. 11. A device as claimed in claim 7, further including first and second means for attaching said holding assembly to said robot arm, said first attaching means comprising a resilient connection between said holding assembly and a remote end of said robot arm and said second attaching means comprising a linear actuator adapted to selectively, fixedly interconnect or disconnect said holding assembly and said robot arm. 12. A device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said automatic switching valve is fluidly connected to one of said two variable volume chambers through a first fluid pathway and said atmospheric release valve is fluidly connected to said first fluid pathway through a first fluid tube such that said atmospheric release valve is fluidly connected to said one of said two variable volume chambers through said first fluid pathway and said first fluid tube. 