A system is provided for removing material from a structure having at least one layer of the material formed on a substrate. The system includes a radiant energy source, such as a flashlamp, with an actively cooled reflector for irradiating a target area of a structure with radiant energy, preferably sufficiently intense in at least the visible and ultraviolet, to break or weaken chemical bonds in the material, and an abrasive blaster for impinging the material after irradiation with a cool particle stream, preferably including of CO.sub.2 particles, to remove the irradiated material and cool the substrate. The system may also include light sensors used in a feedback loop to control the removal process by varying the speed at which the radiant energy source is moved along the structure, the repetition rate of the source, the intensity of the source, the pulse width of the source and/or the distance between the source and the structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for removing material that is coating a substrate of a structure, comprising: a housing; a radiant energy source mounted to said housing for generating radiant energy to irradiate a target area of the structure with a quantity of energy sufficient to at least pyrolyze the material; scanning means to scan radiant energy from said radiant energy source along the structure thereby changing the location of the target area; and particle directing means operatively connected to said scanning means for directing a cool particle stream at material pyrolyzed by said radiant energy source for removing pyrolyzed material from the substrate immediately after the material has been pyrolized and for cooling the substrate. 2. The system as defined in claim 1 wherein said radiant energy source is capable of generating pulsed electromagnetic energy. 3. The system as defined in claim 2 wherein said housing includes: a reflector positioned to direct pulsed electromagnetic energy from said radiant energy source to the target area on the structure. 4. The system as defined in claim 3 wherein said radiant energy source is matched to said reflector to be capable of producing up to about 30 Joules/cm.sup.2 of pulsed light energy in the target area on the structure. 5. The system as defined in claim 3 wherein said radiant energy source includes: a flashlamp capable of generating pulsed light energy at a periodic repetition rate of multiple times a second. 6. The system as defined in claim 5 including: control means for assuring pulsed light energy generated by said flashlamp irradiates the structure with an amount of radiant energy that is below that amount of radiant energy that would permanently change the modulus of elasticity, shear strength, or tensile strength of the substrate. 7. The system as defined in claim 5 wherein said scanning means include: means for spacing said flashlamp and said particle directing means from the structure; and means for moving said flashlamp and said particle directing means along the structure at a controllable scan speed. 8. The system as defined in claim 7 wherein said scanning means further include: means for varying the controllable scan speed for controlling the temperature of the substrate. 9. The system as defined in claim 1 wherein said scanning means include: means for varying spacing between said radiant energy source and the structure to control the temperature of the substrate. 10. The system as defined in claim 1 further including: means to vary mass flow rate of the cool particle stream to control the temperature of the substrate. 11. The system as defined in claim 1 wherein said radiant energy source includes: at least one flashlamp capable of generating pulsed light energy, and wherein said housing encloses said at least one flashlamp and has: a fused quartz window through which pulsed light energy generated by said at least one flashlamp is directed to irradiate the target area. 12. The system as defined in claim 1 wherein said radiant energy source includes: a flashlamp capable of generating pulsed light energy, and wherein said housing further includes: a reflector portion having: a reflector surface positioned to form pulsed light energy from said flashlamp into a pulsed light beam for at least pyrolyzing the material; and cooling means in heat transfer communication with said flashlamp and said reflector portion to carry heat away from said flashlamp and said reflector surface. 13. The system as defined in claim 12 wherein said cooling means include: a coolant path for directing coolant transparent to light energy about said flashlamp and then through said reflector portion. 14. The system as defined in claim 12 wherein said reflector surface has a parabolically shaped cross-section that defines a line of foci; and said flashlamp has: a longitudinal axis that is positioned substantially coincident with said line of foci of said reflector surface. 15. The system as defined in claim 1 further including: collecting means operatively connected to said scanning means for collecting material removed by the cool particle stream. 16. The system as defined in claim 1 further including: a vacuum nozzle mounted in fixed relationship to said particle directing means for collecting remnants of the cool particle stream and material removed by the cool particle stream. 17. The system as defined in claim 1 wherein said particle directing means include: means for including frozen CO.sub.2 particles in the cool particle stream. 18. The system as defined in claim 1 including: means capable of supplying a cool particle stream of dry, cool gas and frozen CO.sub.2 particles to said particle directing means. 19. A system for removing material from a structure that includes a substrate covered with at least one layer of the material to be removed, said system comprising: a source of pulsed radiant energy; means for moving said source of pulsed radiant energy along a path on the structure at controllable rates to at least substantially pyrolyze the material of the layer in the path; and means for impinging the pyrolyzed material with frozen gas particles to remove the pyrolyzed material from the substrate, said means for impinging being connected for movement with said means for moving and being directed to impinge the pyrolyzed material with frozen gas particles quickly after the material is pyrolized to remove the pyrolyzed material and to cool the substrate. 20. The system according to claim 19 wherein said source of pulsed radiant energy includes: a flashlamp. 21. The system according to claim 19 further including: optical means for indicating material removal; and means responsive to said optical means for adjusting the motion rate of said means for moving. 22. The system according to claim 19 further including: an enclosure for enclosing a volume about said source of pulsed radiant energy, said enclosure having: a window that is transparent to the radiant energy. 23. The system according to claim 19 further including: a vacuum system for collecting the material that has been removed from the substrate and spent frozen gas particles, said vacuum system being operatively connected to said means for moving. 24. The system according to claim 19 wherein said source of pulsed radiant energy include: means to produce an area irradiated by the pulsed radiant energy on the structure, and wherein said means for impinging the pyrolyzed material with frozen gas particles include: a nozzle positioned to direct the frozen gas particles at the pyrolized material adjacent the area on the structure irradiated by the pulsed radiant energy. 25. The system as defined in claim 19 wherein said means for impinging the pyrolyzed material with frozen gas particles include: means to impinge the pyrolyzed material with frozen CO.sub.2 particles. 26. The system as defined in claim 25 wherein said means for impinging the pyrolyzed material with frozen CO.sub.2 particles include: means to provide dry, cool gas flow about said frozen CO.sub.2 particles. 27. A system for removing material from a structure that includes a substrate and at least one layer of the material on a surface of the substrate, said system including: irradiating means for irradiating a target area of the structure with radiant energy of sufficient amount to pyrolyze material in the target area; and impinging means operatively connected to said irradiating means for impinging material pyrolized by said irradiating means with a cool particle stream, said impinging means being positioned to remove the pyrolyzed material from the substrate and cool the substrate to prevent overheating thereof by said irradiating means. 28. The system as defined in claim 27 further including: collecting means operatively connected to said irradiating means in position to collect pyrolyzed material removed by said impinging means. 29. The system as defined in claim 27 further including: robotic means operatively connected to said irradiating means for moving said irradiating means and said impinging means along a path along the structure. 30. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said impinging means include: means to impinge material pyrolyzed by said irradiating means with a particle stream of frozen gas particles. 31. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said impinging means include: means to impinge material pyrolyzed by said irradiating means with frozen gas particles, said system further including: collecting means positioned to collect pyrolyzed material removed by said impinging means and remnants of the frozen gas particles. 32. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy in pulses. 33. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy, a substantial portion of which is ultraviolet radiant energy; and a reflector assembly positioned with respect to said flashlamp to direct radiant energy produced by said flashlamp to the target area. 34. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy; a reflector assembly positioned with respect to said flashlamp to direct the radiant energy to the target area, said reflector assembly defining a coolant path through said reflector assembly and about said flashlamp; and means to provide coolant flow through said coolant path. 35. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy; and a reflector assembly positioned with respect to said flashlamp to direct radiant energy to the target area, said reflector assembly including: first and second opposite ends; a reflector positioned along said flashlamp between said first and second opposite ends; and a coolant jacket along said flashlamp extending between said first and second opposite ends, said first and second opposite ends, said reflector and said coolant jacket forming a coolant path through said reflector assembly and about said flashlamp. 36. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means further include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy; and a reflector assembly positioned with respect to said flashlamp to direct the radiant energy produced by said flashlamp to the target area, said reflector assembly including: first and second ends; a coolant inlet at said first end; a coolant outlet at said first end; a reflector spaced along said flashlamp between said first and second ends; a transparent coolant jacket positioned about said flashlamp positioned between said reflector and said flashlamp and extending between said first and second ends, said reflector assembly defining a coolant path from said inlet through said first end, about said flashlamp, through said second end, through said reflector and through said first end to said coolant outlet, through which coolant can be flowed; and a window positioned between said flashlamp and the target area, said impinging means being operatively positioned to cool and clean said window. 37. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy; a reflector assembly positioned with respect to said flashlamp to direct the radiant energy to the target area, said reflector assembly including: first and second ends; a coolant inlet at said first end; a coolant outlet at said first end; a reflector positioned along said flashlamp between said first and second ends; and a coolant jacket about said flashlamp positioned between said reflector and said flashlamp and extending between said first and second ends, said reflector assembly defining a coolant path from said inlet through said first end, about said flashlamp, through said second end, through said reflector and through said first end to said coolant outlet, said system further including: means for supplying a flow of generally non-electrically conducting coolant fluid that is relatively transparent to the radiant energy through said coolant path. 38. The system as defined in claim 27 wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp to produce the radiant energy; a reflector assembly positioned with respect to said flashlamp to direct the radiant energy to the target area, said reflector assembly including: first and second ends; a coolant inlet at said first end; a coolant outlet at said first end; a reflector positioned along said flashlamp between said first and second ends; and a coolant jacket about said flashlamp positioned between said reflector and said flashlamp and extending between said first and second ends, said reflector assembly defining a coolant path from said inlet through said first end, about said flashlamp, through said second end, through said reflector and through said first end to said coolant outlet, said system further including: means for supplying a flow of deionized water through said coolant path. 39. The system as defined in claim 27 further including: scanning means operatively connected to said irradiating means for transporting said irradiating means and said impinging means along the structure at a controllable rate; optical means for indicating material removal; and means responsive to said optical means for adjusting the rate of transport of said scanning means. 40. The system as defined in claim 27 further including: a housing containing said irradiating means, said housing having: an open side adapted for movement along the structure through which said irradiating means irradiate the target area, and through which said impinging means direct the particle stream, said housing having a preferred direction of travel along the structure generally at a right angle to said open side thereof, said irradiating means and said impinging means being positioned so that when said housing is moving along the structure in the preferred direction, said irradiating means travel past a surface area of the structure just before said impinging means travel past the same surface area. 41. The system as defined in claim 40 wherein said impinging means include: a nozzle positioned for directing the particle stream through said open side of said housing. 42. The system as defined in claim 41 wherein said housing further includes: anti-friction means adapted for contact with the structure to allow said housing to be moved along the structure and to maintain spacing of said irradiating means and said nozzle from the structure. 43. The system as defined in claim 41 further including: particle removal means having: a vacuum inlet within said housing adjacent said open side thereof. 44. The system as defined in claim 43 wherein said housing further includes: a sidewall about said open side, said sidewall including: a seal positioned about said open side for sliding sealing contact with the structure to retain spent particles from the particle stream within said housing for collection by said particle removing means. 45. The system as defined in claim 40 further including: particle removal means having: a vacuum inlet within said housing, wherein said impinging means include: a nozzle positioned for directing the particle stream through said open side of said housing, and wherein said irradiating means include: a flashlamp; and a reflector assembly associated with said flashlamp to direct radiant energy from said flashlamp to the target area, said vacuum inlet of said particle removing means being positioned between said nozzle of said impinging means and said reflector assembly. 46. The system as defined in claim 45 further including: acoustic sensor means that include: an acoustic sensor positioned within said housing to detect changes in sound that occur on the surface of the substrate, said acoustic sensor being positioned near said reflector assembly. 47. The system as defined in claim 40 further including: acoustic sensor means having: an acoustic sensor connected to said housing to detect changes in sound that occur on the surface of the substrate. 48. The system as defined in claim 27 further including: a housing containing said irradiating means, said housing having: a leading edge; and trailing edge to establish a preferred direction of travel along the structure, said irradiating means and said impinging means being positioned so that when said housing is moving in the preferred direction, said irradiating means pass an area of the structure just before said impinging means pass the same area. 49. The system as defined in claim 48 further including: at least one eddy current sensor positioned near said leading edge to sense characteristics of the at least one layer of the material on the surface of the substrate for control of said system. 50. The system as defined in claim 49 further including: at least one eddy current sensor positioned near said trailing edge to sense removal of the at least one layer of the material from the surface of the substrate for control of said system. 51. A system for removing material that is coating a substrate of a structure, comprising: a housing; a radiant energy source mounted to said housing for generating radiant energy to irradiate a target area of the structure with a quantity of energy sufficient to at least pyrolyze the material; a reflector for directing the radiant energy from said radiant energy source to the target area of the structure; scanning means to scan radiant energy from said radiant energy source along the structure thereby changing the location of the target area; particle directing means operatively connected to said scanning means for directing a cool particle stream at the pyrolyzed material for removing pyrolyzed material from the substrate and for cooling the substrate; and collecting means operatively connected to said scanning means for collecting material removed by the cool particle stream. 