A CMP pad (58) for polishing a semiconductor wafer includes flat polymer sheet (85) for adhering to platen (26). Flat polymer sheet (85) receives slurry (66) that lubricates pad (58) and semiconductor wafer (54) as they contact one another. Pad (58) includes slurry recesses (82) that hold slurry (66) and a plurality of slurry channel paths (66) that form flow connections between predetermined ones of slurry recesses (82). Pad (58) maintains a desired level of slurry (66) between semiconductor wafer (54) and pad (58) to increase the oxide layer removal rate from semiconductor wafer (54), make the semiconductor wafer (54) surface more uniform, and minimize edge exclusion (92) in the CMP of semiconductor wafers (54).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for polishing a semiconductor wafer, comprising the steps off: placing the semiconductor wafer on a carrier device; coating a slurry on a pad to a predetermined thickness, the pad having a plurality of channel paths and a plurality of slurry recesses at intersections of certain ones of the plurality of channel paths, said recesses having a depth greater than that of said channel paths to facilitate slurry collection and retention in said recesses, the slurry thickness being sufficient to fill the slurry recesses and flow through the channel paths; imparting relative motion to said semiconductor wafer and to said pad; contacting the semiconductor wafer with the pad for polishing the semiconductor wafer, while maintaining a sufficient layer of the slurry on the pad for lubricating the semiconductor wafer. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of rotating the carrier device in a first circular direction and rotating the pad in a second circular direction opposite the first circular direction. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of maintaining a sufficient coating of slurry on the pad for extending the polishing area of the semiconductor wafer and thereby reducing edge exclusion on the semiconductor wafer by flowing slurry through the channel paths at the periphery of the semiconductor wafer. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of flowing the slurry through the channel paths for maintaining a sufficiently uniform layer of slurry on the pad for uniformly polishing the semiconductor wafer to a thickness variation of less than 8 mils between any two points on the surface of the semiconductor wafer. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of flowing the slurry through the channel paths to maintain a prescribed amount of slurry on the pads to increase an oxide layer removal rate from the semiconductor wafer. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of flowing the slurry through a channel path, such that each of the slurry recesses associates with at least one of the plurality of channel paths. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of cleaning the slurry from the semiconductor wafer using a pH controlling bath at a semiconductor wafer cleaning station. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said contacting step comprises the step of contacting the rotating semiconductor wafer with a pad having a cellular material structure for polishing the semiconductor wafer while maintaining a sufficient layer of the slurry on the pad for lubricating the semiconductor wafer. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said coating step further comprises the step of flowing the slurry through a plurality of channel paths connecting between certain ones of the plurality of slurry recesses, the channel paths having a width of not greater than about 50 mils and a depth of not greater than about 50 mils for maintaining the slurry on the pad. 