A novel rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor processes a multiplicity of wafers or a single large wafer, e.g., 200 mm (8 inches), 250 mm (10 inches), 300 mm (12 inches) diameter wafers, using either a single or dual heat source. The wafers or wafer are mounted on a rotatable susceptor supported by a susceptor support. A susceptor position control rotates the wafers during processing and raises and lowers the susceptor to various positions for loading and processing of wafers. A heat controller controls either a single heat source or a dual heat source that heats the wafers to a substantially uniform temperature during processing. A gas flow controller regulates flow of gases into the reaction chamber. Instead of the second heat source, a passive heat distribution is used, in one embodiment, to achieve a substantially uniform temperature throughout the wafers. Further, a novel susceptor is used that includes a silicon carbide cloth enclosed in quartz.
Claims We claim: 1. In a reactor for processing a substrate, a structure comprising: a susceptor having a first surface adapted for mounting a substrate thereon; a second surface; and a plurality of openings extending through said susceptor from said first surface to said second surface wherein each opening in said plurality of openings extending through said susceptor from said first surface to said second surface has a surface; and a plurality of substrate support pins; wherein a substrate support pin is movably mounted in each of said plurality of openings and in a first position said substrate support pins are seated in said susceptor when said substrate is supported by said susceptor, and in a second position said substrate support pins hold said substrate above said first surface; and each substrate support pin in said plurality of substrate support pins has a surface wherein in said first position, the surface on the substrate support pin mates with the surface of the opening so as to inhibit gas flow through said plurality of openings in said susceptor during processing. 2. In a reactor for processing a substrate, the structure of claim 1 further comprising; a plurality of supports, one for each substrate support pin, mounted in said reactor so that when said susceptor is in a third position, said plurality of supports hold said plurality of substrate support pins in said second position. 3. In a reactor for processing a substrate, the structure of claim 2 wherein when said susceptor is in a fourth position, said plurality of substrate support pins are in said first position. 4. In a reactor for processing a substrate, a structure as in claim 1 wherein said surface of said opening and said surface of said substrate support pin are both tapered so that said tapered surface of said substrate support pin mates with tapered surface of said opening is said first position. 5. A rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, and having: a first surface adapted for supporting at least one substrate; a second surface; a plurality of openings extending through said rotatable susceptor from said first surface to said second surface with each opening in said plurality of openings extending through said rotatable susceptor from said first surface to said second surface having a surface; and a plurality of substrate support pins wherein a substrate support pin is movably mounted in each of said plurality of openings and in a first position said substrate support pins are seated in said susceptor when said at least one substrate is supported by said susceptor, and in a second position said substrate support pins hold said at least one substrate above said first surface; and each substrate support pin in said plurality of substrate support pins has a surface wherein in said first position, the surface on the substrate support pin mates with the surface of the opening so as to inhibit gas flow through said plurality of openings in said susceptor during processing; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said heat source directly heats said at least one substrate. 6. A rapid thermal process reactor as in claim 5 further comprising: a plurality of gas jets mounted within said rapid thermal process reaction chamber about an outer circumference of said rotatable rapid thermal process susceptor. 