A piezoelectric gripping system firmly secures a semiconductor wafer or other workpiece onto a robotic transfer blade so as to allow for acceleration forces that exceed the frictional holding force between the blade and workpiece. To prevent production of contaminating particulates during grasping, the piezoelectric grippers of the system are independently actuated into slight contact with the workpiece so as to prevent frictional movement of the workpiece relative to the blade during the grasping operation. Once all of the grippers are in slight contact with the workpiece, the voltage to each gripper is increased by a predetermined amount to thereby uniformly increase the force exerted by each gripper on the workpiece and to thereby more firmly secure the workpiece to the blade. Thereafter, the blade may transfer the workpiece at extremely high speeds without the workpiece moving frictionally relative to the blade.
Claims I claim: 1. In a processing station having one or more process chambers for processing successively supplied workpieces under essentially contaminant-free conditions, an apparatus for moving said workpieces between chambers, said apparatus comprising: (a) a robotic arm for supporting each said workpiece and for moving each said workpiece between said chambers; (b) a plurality of shape-changing grippers each being mounted to the robotic arm and each being respectively capable of changing shape in response to a respectively supplied energizing signal without causing frictional rubbing together of surfaces, wherein said changing of shape of each respective gripper can cause the respective gripper to engage and disengage with a corresponding grippable point of the workpiece, wherein at least two of said shape-changing grippers define an opposed set of grippers that, when forcibly engaged with the workpiece, grip the workpiece and thereby resist movement of the workpiece; and (c) a control mechanism, operatively coupled to the shape-changing grippers, for individually controlling the respective energizing signal supplied to each respective gripper of said opposed set of grippers so as to enable independent switching of each respective one of the opposed grippers between an unengaged first state wherein the workpiece can be moved with essentially no resistance from the respective gripper of said opposed set, and an engaged second state wherein the workpiece cannot be freely moved without encountering resistance from the respective gripper of said opposed set; (c.1) wherein said control mechanism includes a slight contact mechanism for switching each of the shape-changing grippers of the opposed set between said unengaged first state and said engaged second state without thereby causing substantial movement of the workpiece. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said robotic arm includes: (a.1) a reciprocating member for moving said workpieces in and out of each respective chamber. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said robotic arm includes: (a.2) a rotating member for moving said workpieces from one chamber to a next chamber. 4. A system for transporting a semiconductor wafer having a lower surface and an outer circumference, said system comprising: (a) a moveable blade for supporting the lower surface of the semiconductor wafer; (b) a plurality of piezoelectric grippers mounted to the blade for engaging with the outer circumference of the semiconductor wafer so as to hold the semiconductor wafer on the blades: and (c) a controllable voltage source for supplying a variable voltage to a first piezoelectric gripper of said plurality of piezoelectric grippers and for thereby moving a portion of said first piezoelectric gripper, independently of others of said plurality of piezoelectric grippers, between a first position not in engagement with said outer circumference of the semiconductor wafer and a second position in slight engagement with said outer circumference of the semiconductor wafer and for maintaining said second position of slight engagement, (c.1) wherein said transition to the second position and said slight engagement with the outer circumference do not cause frictional movement between the wafer and the blade. 5. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 4, further comprising: (d) sensing means for sensing said slight engagement of said piezoelectric gripper with the outer circumference; and (e) control means, operatively coupled to the sensing means and to the controllable voltage source, for responsively stopping further advancing movement of said portion of the first piezoelectric gripper toward the outer circumference upon said sensing means sensing said slight engagement. 6. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 5, wherein the control means further comprises: (e.1) grip incrementing means for increasing said variable voltage by a predetermined amount after the second position of slight engagement is attained by the first gripper and after each other of said plurality of piezoelectric grippers has come into corresponding slight engagement with said outer circumference of the semiconductor wafers. 7. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 4, wherein said controllable voltage source includes digital means for changing said voltage supplied to said first piezoelectric gripper incrementally. 8. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 4, wherein said controllable voltage source includes: (c.1) energy storage means supported on the moveable blade. 9. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 8, wherein said energy storage means is rechargeable and further includes: (c.1a) a recharging coupling for recharging said energy storage means. 10. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 9, wherein said energy storage means includes: (c.1b) a storage capacitor. 11. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 4, wherein said controllable voltage source includes: (c.1) a remote control interface for receiving control signals from a remote controller. 12. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 11, wherein said control signals include optical signals. 13. A system for gripping a semiconductor wafer, comprising: (a) blade means for supporting the semiconductor wafer; (b) a plurality of three or more grippers for engaging the semiconductor wafer around an outer circumference of the semiconductor wafer; (c) a plurality of three or more respective support blocks mounted to the blade means, each for supporting a respective one of said plurality of grippers in spaced-apart relation to said blade means; (d) individual control means for moving each of said three or more grippers individually toward the semiconductor wafer; and (e) halt means for stopping said individual movement of said each gripper upon initial contact of said each gripper with the semiconductor wafers. 14. A gripping system according to claim 13 wherein said movement of said each gripper toward the semiconductor wafer occurs without frictional movement between any of said grippers and said support blocks. 15. A method of gripping a semiconductor wafer, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning the wafer between a plurality of piezoelectric grippers; (b) individually deforming each of the plurality of grippers toward contact with the semiconductor wafer by individually applying a respectively incrementing voltage to each respective one of the piezoelectric grippers; (c) individually sensing when a respective individual piezoelectric gripper of the plurality of piezoelectric grippers initially contacts the outer circumference of the semiconductor wafer as a result of said step (b) of individually deforming; (d) in response to said sensing of initial contact by a respective individual piezoelectric gripper, maintaining the respective voltage of the respective individual piezoelectric gripper at the voltage at which the piezoelectric gripper initially contacted the outer circumference of the semiconductor wafer; and (e) after sensing initial contact by all said grippers, increasing the respective voltage applied to each of the plurality of piezoelectric grippers by a predetermined voltage. 16. A gripping method according to claim 15 wherein said plurality of piezoelectric grippers comprises at least three such grippers. 17. The gripping method of claim 15 wherein said wafer is symmetrically grippable about its outer circumference, and wherein said plurality of piezoelectric grippers are distributed to symmetrically grip the wafer about its outer circumference such that said step (e) results in symmetric securing of the wafer by said grippers. 18. A method for nonfrictionally securing a workpiece to a robotic transport surface, where a plurality of shape-changing grippers are distributed on the transport surface for securely gripping the workpiece to the transport surface, where the workpiece is positioned on the transport surface so as to be initially spaced apart from said shape-changing grippers and where the workpiece is initially movable frictionally on said surface, the method comprising the steps of: (a) beginning deformation of each of the grippers toward respective initial contact with the workpiece; (b) for each respective gripper, first determining if the respective gripper has made initial contact with the workpiece as a result of said begun deformation; (c) for all grippers that are to secure the workpiece, second determining if all such grippers have made initial contact with the workpiece; and (d) in response to said first and second determining steps, (b) and (c), halting [1305] the begun deformation of those of the respective grippers which are determined by said step (b) to have made initial contact with the workpiece if it is not determined by said second determining step (c) that all such grippers have made initial contact with the workpiece. 19. The workpiece securing method of claim 18 wherein: (a.1) said at least three individually deformable grippers - each includes a piezoelectric multi-morph to which a deformation-causing voltage can be applied; and (a.2) said step of beginning deformation includes supplying a respective deformation-causing voltage of incrementally increasing magnitude to each respective gripper. 20. The workpiece securing method of claim 19 wherein: (a.2a) said step of supplying a respective deformation-causing voltage of incrementally increasing magnitude includes digitally increasing said magnitude. 21. The workpiece securing method of claim 18 further comprising the step of: (e) in response to a finding by said second determining step (c) that all such grippers have made initial contact with the workpiece, uniformly further deforming all such grippers so as to enhance their grip on the workpiece. 22. The workpiece securing method of claim 21 wherein said workpiece has a set of symmetrically-grippable points and said shape-changing grippers are symmetrically distributed on the transport surface for respectively gripping said set of symmetrically-grippable points. 23. A method for transporting a workpiece that is supported by a robotic transport surface, where a plurality of shape-changing grippers are distributed on the transport surface for securely gripping the workpiece to the transport surface, where the workpiece is positioned on the transport surface so as to be initially spaced apart from said shape-changing grippers and where the workpiece is initially movable frictionally on said surface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) securing said workpiece to the robotic transport surface in accordance with claim 18; and (b) moving the combination of the robotic transport surface and secured workpiece at a first acceleration that is greater than a second acceleration, where said second acceleration is one where the workpiece would frictionally move against the transport surface if the workpiece were not secured by said grippers. 24. A method for transporting a workpiece according to claim 23, further comprising the steps of: (c) during said moving at the first acceleration, sensing if one or more of said grippers is having a greater force exerted thereagainst by the accelerating workpiece as compared to others of the grippers; and (d) further deforming the one or more grippers experiencing the greater force so as to counteract the greater force exerted thereagainst by the accelerating workpiece. 25. The workpiece securing method of claim 18 wherein said grippers that are to secure the workpiece is constituted by at least three individually deformable grippers. 26. The workpiece securing method of claim 18 wherein: (a.1) said at least three individually deformable grippers each includes a piezoelectric contact detector; and (b.1) said step of first determining if the respective gripper has made initial contact includes using the respective piezoelectric contact detector of a respective one of said at least three individually deformable grippers to detect initial contact with the workpiece. 27. A method for nonfrictionally unsecuring a workpiece from a robotic transport surface, where a plurality of shape-changing grippers are distributed on the transport surface for securely gripping the workpiece to the transport surface, where the workpiece is positioned on the transport surface so as to be initially gripped by said shape-changing grippers and where the workpiece is movable frictionally on said surface when free from the shape-changing grippers, the unsecuring method comprising the steps of: (a) beginning deformation of each of the grippers toward respective last slight contact with the workpiece; (b) for each respective gripper, first determining if the respective gripper has reached a predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece as a result of said begun deformation; (c) for all grippers that secured the workpiece, second determining if all such grippers have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece; and (d) in response to said first and second determining steps, (b) and (c), halting the begun deformation of those of the respective grippers which are determined by said step (b) to have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece if it is not determined by said second determining step (c) that all such grippers have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece. 28. The workpiece unsecuring method of claim 27 wherein said grippers that secured the workpiece is constituted by at least three individually deformable grippers. 29. The workpiece unsecuring method of claim 28 wherein: (a.1) said at least three individually deformable grippers each includes a piezoelectric multi-morph to which a deformation-causing voltage can be applied; and (a.2) said step of beginning deformation includes supplying a respective deformation-causing voltage of incrementally decreasing magnitude to each respective gripper. 30. The workpiece unsecuring method of claim 27 further comprising the step of: (e) in response to a finding by said second determining step (c) that all such grippers have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece, uniformly further deforming all such grippers so as to free the workpiece. 31. A method for nonfrictionally unsecuring a workpiece from a robotic transport surface, where a plurality of shape-changing grippers are distributed on the transport surface for securely gripping the workpiece to the transport surface, where the workpiece is positioned on the transport surface so as to be initially gripped by said shape-changing grippers and where the workpiece is movable frictionally on said surface when free from the shape-changing grippers, the unsecuring method comprising the steps of: (a) beginning deformation of each of the grippers toward respective last slight contact with the workpiece; (b) for each respective gripper, first determining if a force exerted by the respective gripper against the workpiece is different from a next closest of force exerted by another of the grippers by more than a predefined amount, and if so halting the begun deformation of the respective gripper until the force difference no longer exceeds said predefined amount; (c) for each respective gripper, second determining if the respective gripper has reached a predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece; (d) for all grippers that secured the workpiece, third determining if all such grippers have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece; and (e) in response to said second and third determining steps, (c) and (d), halting the deformation of those of the respective grippers which are determined by said step (c) to have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece if it is not determined by said third determining step (d) that all such grippers have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece. 32. The workpiece unsecuring method of claim 31 further comprising the step of: (f) in response to a finding by said third determining step (d) that all such grippers have reached said predefined state of last slight contact with the workpiece, uniformly further deforming all such grippers so as to free the workpiece. 33. A method for transporting a workpiece that is supported by a robotic transport surface, where a plurality of shape-changing grippers are distributed on the transport surface for securely gripping the workpiece to the transport surface, where the workpiece is positioned on the transport surface so as to be securely gripped by said shape-changing grippers and where the workpiece is movable frictionally on said surface when free of said grippers, said method comprising the steps of: (a) moving the combination of the robotic transport surface and secured workpiece, wherein said moving step includes a first deceleration that is greater than a second deceleration, where said second deceleration is one where the workpiece would frictionally move against the transport surface if the workpiece were not secured by said grippers; and (b) after said first deceleration, unsecuring said workpiece from the robotic transport surface in accordance with claim 27. 34. An apparatus for transporting a workpiece within an environment that is to be kept essentially free of contaminating particulates, wherein said workpiece has a supportable under-surface and a plurality of grippable points, the apparatus comprising: (a) a moveable support piece for supporting said workpiece by its under-surface and for moving said workpiece within said environment; (b) a plurality of shape-changing grippers each being mounted to the support piece and each being respectively capable of changing shape in response to a respectively supplied energizing signal without rubbing frictionally against the support piece, wherein said changing of shape of each respective gripper can cause the respective gripper to engage and disengage with a corresponding grippable point of the workpiece, wherein two or more of said shape-changing grippers define an opposed set of grippers that, when forcibly engaged with the workpiece, resist movement of the workpiece relative to the support piece; and (c) a control mechanism, operatively coupled to the shape-changing grippers, for individually controlling the respective energizing signal supplied to each respective gripper of said opposed set of grippers so as to enable independent switching of each respective one of the opposed grippers between an unengaged first state wherein the workpiece can be slid frictionally across the support piece with essentially no resistance from the respective gripper of said opposed set, and an engaged second state wherein the workpiece cannot be freely slid frictionally across the support piece without encountering resistance to such sliding from the respective gripper of said opposed set; (c.1) wherein said control mechanism includes a slight contact mechanism for switching each of the shape-changing grippers of the opposed set between said unengaged first state and said engaged second state without causing frictional rubbing of the workpiece against the support piece. 35. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 34 wherein: (b.1) said plurality of shape-changing grippers are composed of one or more piezoelectric ceramic materials. 36. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 35 wherein: (b.1a) said piezoelectric ceramic materials are selected from the group of consisting of lead-zirconate-titanate compounds and lead-magnesium-niobate compounds. 37. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 34 wherein: (b.1) each of the shape-changing grippers of the opposed set includes a slight contact detector for detecting slight contact of the respective shape-changing gripper with a corresponding grippable point of the workpiece; and (c.1a) said slight contact mechanism is responsive to the slight contact detector of each of the shape-changing grippers of the opposed set. 38. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 37 wherein: (b.1a) the slight contact detector includes a piezoelectric sensing element that is electrically isolated from the energizing signal of the respective shape-changing gripper. 39. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 34 wherein: (a.1) said moveable support piece includes a reciprocating blade adapted to stablely support the workpiece by its under-surface and dimensioned to enable lifting of the workpiece off the blade by reciprocating lifters disposed in spaced-apart adjacency to the blade. 40. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 34 wherein: (a.1) said moveable support piece has a substantially planar support surface for engaging with the under-surface of the workpiece and thereby supporting the workpiece; and (b.1) said plurality of shape-changing grippers are each spaced-apart from and extend over the planar support surface. 41. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 34 wherein: (b.1) said plurality of shape-changing grippers are composed of out-gas free materials. 42. A workpiece transporting apparatus according to claim 35 wherein: (b.1a) said plurality of shape-changing grippers include electrodes composed of nickel. 