A foot system for a jointed leg type walking robot which is capable of more stably walking on both even and uneven ground surfaces includes a connection member disposed at a center portion of the foot system and connected to a leg system provided above the same and having a waist joint, a knee joint, and a shank, the connection member being cylindrical, an ankle member being integral with the connection member and below the same, a shock absorber supporting portion member outwardly and integrally extending at the outer surface of the ankle member and having a vertical hole formed therethrough, a shock absorber fixedly inserted into the hole formed in the shock absorber supporting portion member, and front and rear toes pivotally connected to the ankle by a plurality of upper and lower parallel links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A foot system for a jointed leg type walking robot, comprising: a connection member disposed at a center portion of the foot system for being connected to a leg system, said connection member being cylindrical; an ankle member being integral with the connection member below the same; a shock absorber supporting member outwardly and integrally extending from an outer surface of the ankle member and having a vertical hole formed therethrough; shock absorber means fixedly inserted into the hole formed in the shock absorber supporting member; and front and rear toes pivotally connected to the ankle member by a plurality of upper and lower parallel links. 2. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said connection member includes a threaded portion formed at an outer circumferential surface thereof for mating with a threaded portion of the shank. 3. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said ankle member includes a first pin pivotally inserted into a first horizontal hole formed at an upper portion thereof and a second pin pivotally inserted into a horizontal second hole formed at a lower portion thereof. 4. The foot system of claim 3, wherein said second hole includes an annular support portion formed therearound. 5. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said shock absorber includes a roller disposed at a lower end of a piston rod thereof, said roller and said piston rod being movable upwardly and downwardly. 6. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said rear toe includes an abutment member outwardly extended from a portion of an inner surface thereof and having a flat upper surface on which a roller of the shock absorber is slidable. 7. The foot system of claim 6, wherein said abutment member is integral with the rear toe. 8. The foot system of claim 1, said front toe includes a first pin pivotally inserted into a first hole formed at an upper portion thereof, and a second pin pivotally inserted into a second hole formed at an intermediate portion thereof. 9. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said upper parallel links are spaced apart about the ankle in parallel. 10. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said lower parallel links are spaced about the ankle in parallel. 11. The foot system of claim 9, wherein said spaced-apart upper links are each pivotally connected to a pin of the front toe, a pin of the ankle, and a pin of the front toe. 12. The foot system of claim 10, wherein said spaced-apart lower links are each pivotally connected to a pin of the front toe, a pin of the ankle, and a pin of the front toe. 13. The foot system of claim 1, wherein vertical center axes of the rear toe, the ankle, and the front toe are always parallel. 14. The foot system of claim 1, wherein said shock absorber includes a spring disposed therewithin. 