A system for sealing the nozzle of a steam generator including a collapsible nozzle dam and an installation pivot arm. The collapsible nozzle dam includes a base portion receivable through a manway in the steam generator for retaining an inflatable seal in place within the nozzle, a post extending from the base portion, a plurality of foot assemblies positioned radially about the post for engaging a nozzle ring around the nozzle of the steam generator, a truss structure for supporting the foot assemblies with respect to said base portion including compression legs interconnecting the foot assemblies with the base portion and tension legs interconnecting the foot assemblies with the post. The foot assemblies fold about the post for insertion thereof through the manway to unfold once inside the steam generator for engaging the nozzle ring and positioning the base portion within the nozzle. The installation pivot arm transports the collapsible nozzle dam from the manway to the nozzle and includes a support having a proximal end securable to the manway of the steam generator and a distal end securable to the nozzle ring, a nozzle dam attachment and positioning backing plate, and a four bar linkage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for sealing the nozzle of a steam generator, comprising: a collapsible nozzle dam, including: a base portion receivable through a manway in the steam generator for retaining an inflatable seal in place within the nozzle, a post extending from said base portion, a plurality of foot assemblies positioned radially about said post for engaging a nozzle ring around the nozzle of the steam generator, means for supporting said foot assemblies with respect to said base portion including means for interconnecting said foot assemblies with said base portion and said post, means for folding said foot assemblies about said post for insertion thereof through the manway and for unfolding the foot assemblies once inside the steam generator for engaging the nozzle ring and positioning the base portion within the nozzle; and an installation pivot arm for transporting said collapsible nozzle dam, said installation pivot arm including: a support having a proximal end securable to the manway of the steam generator and a distal end securable to the nozzle ring, nozzle dam attachment and positioning means, and means for articulating said nozzle dam from a position proximate the manway to a position over the nozzle and positioning the nozzle dam thereon. 2. The system of claim 1 in which at least one said foot assembly includes at least one wedge bolt subassembly comprising a threaded shaft receivable by threaded holes in the nozzle ring and a pin removably insertable in said threaded shaft. 3. The system of claim 2 in which at least one said wedge bolt subassembly further includes means for actuating and deactuating said threaded shaft. 4. The system of claim 2 in which at least one said wedge bolt subassembly includes a body portion receivable within said foot assembly for positioning said threaded shaft, said body portion having a piston cavity, a piston containing said pin, said piston residing within said piston cavity, and means for driving said piston up and down within said piston cavity for actuating and deactuating said threaded shaft. 5. The system of claim 4 in which said means for driving said piston up and down within said piston cavity includes a first inlet in said body portion having a port proximate the top of said piston for driving the piston down within said piston cavity and second inlet having a port proximate the bottom of said piston for driving the piston up within said piston cavity. 6. The system of claim 4 further including means for providing compliance for said threaded shaft along its longitudinal axis for overcoming any misalignment of the threads of the threaded shaft with the threads of the threaded hole in the nozzle ring. 7. The system of claim 6 in which said means for providing compliance includes spring means positioned within said body portion about said threaded shaft. 8. The system of claim 4 further including means for providing compliance between said body portion and the foot assembly for overcoming any axial misalignment of the threaded shaft with the holes in the nozzle ring. 9. The system of claim 8 in which said means for providing compliance between said body portion and the foot assembly includes spring means inserted between said body portion and said foot assembly. 10. The system of claim 1 in which said means for supporting said foot assemblies includes a compression leg for each foot assembly, each compression leg extending between said base portion and its associated foot assembly. 11. The system of claim 10 in which at least one said compression leg includes first pivot means for pivoting said compression leg with respect to said base portion and a second pivot means for pivoting said compression leg with respect to its associated foot assembly. 12. The system of claim 10 in which at least one compression leg includes a short link for shortening the span of travel of its associated foot assembly. 13. The system of claim 10 in which said means for interconnecting said foot assemblies with said base portion and said post further includes a tension leg assembly for each foot assembly, each tension leg assembly extending between said post and its associated foot assembly. 14. The system of claim 13 further including means for providing compliance between at least one said foot assembly and at least one said tension leg assembly. 15. The system of claim 13 further including a collar assembly slidable along said post interconnected with said tension leg assemblies. 16. The system of claim 15 in which said means for folding includes means for driving said collar assembly up and down along said post. 17. The system of claim 16 in which said means for driving includes a power driven screw residing in said post, said power driven screw including means for engaging said collar assembly for moving said collar assembly along said post as said power driven screw turns. 18. The system of claim 17 in which said driven screw is powered by a motor residing in said base portion. 19. The system of claim 1 in which said proximal end of said installation arm includes a clamp for engaging the manway opening. 20. The system of claim 1 in which said distal end of said installation arm includes at least one articulating finger for engaging the nozzle ring. 21. The system of claim 1 in which said nozzle dam attachment means includes an actuator for aligning said foot assemblies with the nozzle ring. 22. The system of claim 1 in which said means for articulating said nozzle dam attachment and positioning means includes a four bar linkage pivotably attached on one end thereof to said support and having said nozzle dam attachment and positioning means affixed to the other end thereof. 23. The system of claim 22 in which said platform is extendable to accommodate varying distances between the manway and the nozzle in different steam generators. 24. The system of claim 22 in which said means for articulating further includes a pneumatic cylinder extending between said four bar linkage and said platform. 25. The system of claim 1 in which said nozzle dam attachment and position means includes means for rotating said nozzle dam. 26. The system of claim 1 in which said nozzle dam attachment and positioning means includes means for releasably and remotely engaging said nozzle dam. 27. The system of claim 1 further including an inflatable seal attachable to said base portion of the nozzle dam for sealing the nozzle. 28. The system of claim 1 further including a push rod for urging said pivot arm into positioning for transporting the nozzle dam over to the nozzle. 29. A collapsible nozzle dam for a system for sealing the nozzle of a steam generator, said nozzle dam comprising: a base portion receivable through the manway; a number of pivoting arms attached to said base portion extendable to reach the periphery of a nozzle larger in diameter than the manway and foldable to fit through the manway; and a foot assembly for each said arm on the distal end thereof, each foot assembly including means for automatically engaging the periphery of the nozzle for supporting said base portion in the nozzle when said arms are extended, said means for automatically engaging including at least one wedge bolt subassembly comprising a threaded shaft receivable by threaded holes in the nozzle ring and a pin removably insertable in said threaded shaft. 30. The system of claim 29 in which at least one said wedge bolt subassembly includes a body portion receivable within said foot assembly for positioning said threaded shaft, said body portion having a piston cavity, a piston containing said pin receivable within said piston cavity, and means for driving said piston up and down within said piston cavity for actuating and deactuating said threaded shaft. 31. The system of claim 30 in which said means for driving said piston up and down within said piston cavity includes a first inlet in said body portion having a port proximate the top of said piston for driving the piston down within said piston cavity and second inlet having a port proximate the bottom of said piston for driving the piston up within said piston cavity. 32. The system of claim 30 further including means for providing compliance for said threaded shaft along its longitudinal axis for overcoming any misalignment of the threads of the threaded shaft with the threads of the a threaded hole in the nozzle ring. 33. The system of claim 32 in which said means for providing compliance includes a spring means positioned within said body portion about said threaded shaft. 34. The system of claim 30 further including means for providing compliance between said body portion and the foot assembly for overcoming any axial midalignment of the threaded shaft with the holes in the nozzle ring. 35. The system of claim 34 in which said means for providing compliance between said body portion and the foot assembly includes spring means inserted between said body portion and said foot assembly. 36. The system of claim 29 in which at least one said pivoting arm includes first pivot means for pivoting said pivoting arm with respect to said base portion and a second pivot means for pivoting said pivoting arm with respect to its associated foot assembly. 37. The system of claim 30 in which at least one said pivoting arm includes a short link for shortening the span of travel of its associated foot assembly. 38. The system of claim 30 further including a post extending from said base portion and a tension leg assembly for each foot assembly, each tension leg extending between said post and its associated foot assembly. 39. The system of claim 38 further including means for providing compliance between a foot assembly and the tension leg assembly. 40. The system of claim 38 further including a collar assembly slidable along said post interconnected with said tension leg assemblies. 41. The system of claim 40 further including means for driving said collar up and down along said post. 42. The system of claim 41 in which a said means for driving includes a power driving screw residing in said post, said screw including means engaging said collar for moving said collar along said post as said screw turns. 43. The system of claim 42 in which said screw is powered by a motor residing in said base portion. 44. An installation pivot arm for transporting a collapsible nozzle dam, said installation pivot arm comprising: a support with a proximal end securable to a manway of a steam generator and a distal end securable to a nozzle ring; nozzle dam attachment and positioning means; and means for articulating said nozzle dam attachment means and said nozzle dam attached thereto to between a position proximate the manway and a position over a nozzle for transporting the nozzle dam from the manway to the nozzle. 45. The device of claim 44 in which said proximal end of said installation arm includes a clamp for engaging a manway opening. 46. The device of claim 44 in which said distal end of said installation arm includes at least one articulating finger for engaging the nozzle ring. 47. The device of claim 44 in which said nozzle dam attachment means includes an actuator for aligning the nozzle dam. 48. The device of claim 44 in which said means for articulating said nozzle dam includes a four bar linkage pivotably attached on one end thereof to said support and having said nozzle dam attachment means affixed to the other end thereof. 49. The device of claim 48 in which said support is extendable to accommodate varying distances between the manway and the nozzle in different steam generators. 50. The device of claim 48 in which said means for articulating further includes a pneumatic cylinder extending between said four bar linkage and said support. 51. The device of claim 44 in which said nozzle dam attachment means includes means for rotating a nozzle dam attached thereto. 52. The device of a claim 44 in which said nozzle dam attachment means includes means for releasably and remotely engaging a nozzle dam. 53. A collapsible nozzle dam for a system for sealing the nozzle of a steam generator, said nozzle dam comprising: a base portion receivable through the manway; a number of pivoting arms attached to said base portion extendable to reach the periphery of a nozzle larger in diameter than the manway and foldable to fit through the manway; a foot assembly for each said arm on the distal end thereof, each foot assembly including means for automatically engaging the periphery of the nozzle for supporting said base portion in the nozzle when said arms are extended; a post extending from said base portion; a tension leg assembly for each foot assembly, each tension leg extending between said post and its associated foot assembly; and means for providing compliance between at least one foot assembly and at least one tension leg assembly. 54. The system of claim 53 further including a collar assembly slidable along said post interconnected with said tension leg assemblies. 55. The system of claim 54 further including means for driving said collar up and down along said post. 56. The system of claim 53 in which a said means for driving includes a power driven screw residing in said post, said power driven screw including means engaging said collar for moving said collar along said post as said power driven screw turns. 57. The system of claim 56 in which said power driven screw is powered by a motor residing in said base portion. 