A triaxial force sensor using a hemispherical target embedded in a compliant layer such as an elastomer and having a plurality of ultrasonic transducers disposed in a plane at equal intervals about the target and vertically and laterally offset from the target. The transducers are oriented at an oblique angle to the plane, and aimed at the target in its rest position. The target is displaced by sufficient force applied to the surface of the compliant layer, which displacement alters the transit times of ultrasonic signals from the transducers which are reflected from the target. If at least three sensor units are employed non-colinearly, the six force-torque components, F.sub.x, F.sub.y, F.sub.z, M.sub.x, M.sub.y, M.sub.z, can be determined from the pulse transit times, the speed-of-sound in the compliant layer, the compressibility of the compliant layer, and the known geometry and spacing of the sensor units. Pairs of transducers may be rotationally offset from each other to determine different force-torque components. A plurality of sensors as described may be employed together in a multi-sensor array. An alternative embodiment employing both the amplitude and the transit time of an ultrasonic pulse is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor for use in determining shear and normal components of a force applied thereto, comprising: a target for reflecting ultrasonic waves; at least two ultrasonic transducers aimed at said target, each of said transducers adapted to emit and detect ultrasonic signals, and each of said transducers being laterally and vertically offset from said target; a substantially acoustically-transparent, substantially acoustically-nonrefractive medium disposed between each of said transducers and said target; and compliant means supporting said target. 2. The sensor of claim 1, further including electronic driving circuitry for causing said transducers to emit ultrasonic signals and electronic timing circuitry for determining the transit time between the emission of a signal from a transducer and detection of the emitted signal after reflection from said target. 3. The sensor of claim 2, wherein said timing circuitry is also adapted to control the emission of said signals. 4. The sensor of claim 3, further including a microprocessor programmed to determine said shear and normal force components of said force from signal transit times, the speed-of-sound in said medium, and the degree of compliancy of said compliant means. 5. The sensor of claim 2, further including means for determining said shear and normal force components of said force in relation to transit times of said ultrasonic signals between said transducers and said target. 6. The sensor of claim 5, wherein said means for determining said shear and normal force components of said force is adapted to employ the speed-of-sound in said medium and the degree of compliancy of said compliant means in so determining. 7. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said at least two transducers are located in a common plane. 8. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said at least two transducers comprise four transducers located at 90.degree. intervals around said target. 9. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said target presents a constant-radius, arcuate reflective surface to said transducers. 10. The sensor of claim 9, wherein said target comprises a hemisphere. 11. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said target is embedded in said compliant means. 12. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said compliant means comprises an elastomer, which also provides at least a segment of said medium. 13. The sensor of claim 12, wherein said elastomer is selected from a group comprising urethanes, silicone rubbers, neoprene rubbers, natural rubbers, plastics and gels. 14. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said transducers are selected from a group comprising PVDF films and ceramics. 15. A multi-sensor army for use in determining shear and normal components of a force applied thereto, comprising: a plurality of targets for reflecting ultrasonic waves, said targets being laterally separated and located at predetermined intervals; each of said targets having associated therewith at least two ultrasonic transducers adapted to emit and receive ultrasonic signals, said at least two transducers each being aimed at said target with which each of said transducers is associated and horizontally and vertically offset therefrom; and a substantially acoustically-transparent, substantially acoustically-nonrefractive medium disposed between each of said transducers and said targets; and compliant means supporting said targets. 16. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, wherein said targets are located at substantially equal intervals and in a common plane. 17. The multi-sensor array of claim 16, wherein said transducers are located in a common plane. 18. The multi-sensor array of claim 17, wherein said at least two transducers comprise four transducers located at 90.degree. intervals around said targets. 19. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, wherein said at least two transducers comprise four transducers located at 90.degree. intervals around said targets, two of said transducers being located in mutual opposition in a first common plane, and two of said transducers being located in mutual opposition in a second common plane. 20. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, wherein said targets each present a constant-radius, arcuate reflective surface to the transducers with which said target is associated. 21. The multi-sensor array of claim 20, wherein said targets comprise hemispheres. 22. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, wherein said targets are embedded in said compliant means. 23. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, wherein said compliant means comprises an elastomer, which also provides at least a segment of said medium. 24. The multi-sensor array of claim 23, wherein said elastomer is selected from a group comprising urethanes, silicone rubbers, neoprene rubbers, natural rubbers, plastics and gels. 25. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, wherein said transducers are selected from a group comprising PVDF films and ceramics. 26. The multi-sensor array of claim 15, further including electronic driving circuitry for causing said transducers to emit ultrasonic signals and electronic timing circuitry for determining the transit time between the emission of a signal from a transducer and detection of the emitted signal after reflection from the target at which said signal is aimed. 27. The multi-sensor array of claim 26, wherein said timing circuitry is also adapted to control the emission of said signals. 28. The multi-array sensor of claim 27, further including a microprocessor programmed to determine said shear and normal force such components of said force from signal transit times, the speed-of-sound in said medium, and the degree of compliancy of said compliant means. 29. A method of determining shear and normal force components of a force, comprising: arranging an acoustically-reflective target; providing at least two ultrasonic transducers horizontally and vertically offset from said target in a common plane, and aiming said transducers at said target from a common distance; compliantly supporting said target with a structure having known compliancy characteristics in a substantially acoustically-transparent, substantially acoustically-nonrefractive medium extending between each of said transducers and said target, said medium having known speed-of-sound; applying said force to said target; emitting an ultrasonic signal from each transducer toward said target, and timing the transit time between emission of each said signal and the emitted signal's return to the transducer from which the signal was emitted; and calculating shear and normal force components of said force from said transit times and said known speed-of-sound and compliancy characteristics. 30. The sensor array of claim 26, further including means for determining said shear and normal force components of said force in relation to transit times of said ultrasonic signals between said transducers and said targets. 31. The sensor array of claim 30, wherein said means for determining said shear and normal force components of said force is adapted to employ the speed-of-sound in said medium and the degree of compliancy of said compliant means in so determining. 