A system for printing social expression cards includes both a database preparation system and a plurality of remote card printing systems. The database preparation system uses a scanner to input images from a plurality of cards, or a computer software program to create a plurality of images for use in card designs. A high resolution print image and a lower resolution display image are created from each of these images. A card description database defines the layout of each card in terms of its component images and their locations on the card. The database preparation system can also build a menu database defining a structure of menu screens to query the user to select a desired category of cards. A list of card names is linked to each category in the menu database. These databases and image files are then copied onto removable data storage media for distribution to each of the card printing systems.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of processing images to define social expression cards in a computer database system comprising the following steps: inputting images for each card; creating a high-resolution print file for each of said images; creating a lower-resolution display file for each of said images; and creating a card description database defining the layout of each card in terms of its component images and their locations on the card, to permit retrieval of said print files and said display files for each card. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said card description database further comprises information for each card concerning the location, size, font and color of text on the card. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said card description database further comprises information on fields that can be personalized for each card. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the following steps: creating a menu database defining a plurality of categories of social expression cards; and linking the social expression cards in said card description database to at least one of said categories in said menu database. 5. A system for printing social expression cards comprising: a database preparation computer system having: (a) means for inputting graphic images for each of said cards; (b) means for creating a high-resolution print image file for each of said images; (c) means for creating a lower-resolution display image file for each of said images; (d) means for creating a card description database defining the layout of each card in terms of its component images and their locations on the card; (e) means for creating a card parameter database defining a series of card parameters associated with certain of said cards in said card description database; and (f) data storage means for creating multiple copies of said card parameter database, card description database, print image files, and display image files on removable data storage media; and at least one card printing system having: (a) display; (b) a printer; (c) input means; (d) data storage means for reading said removable data storage media; and (e) processor means for using said card parameter database and said card description database to selectively retrieve display image files of cards from said data storage means and display said display images on said display; allowing a user to select a desired card via said input means; retrieving print image files for said selected card from said data storage means; and printing said print images on said printer. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said data storage means comprises a CD-ROM. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein said data storage means comprises a hard disk drive. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein said card description database further comprises information defining any text appearing on each card. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein said card description database further comprises information on fields that can be personalized for each card. 10. The system of claim 5 wherein said database preparation computer system further comprises means for creating a menu database for querying the card printing system user for a plurality of special occasion parameters and linking cards to said special occasion parameters; wherein said menu database is copied on said removable storage media; and wherein the sequence of menus and the cards displayed for the user by said card printing system is controlled by said menu database. 11. The system of claim 5 wherein said printer reproduces color images by means of dots of a predetermined set of colors, and wherein said print images are stored in a dithered format in which said print images are reduced to patterns of said colors. 12. A system for printing social expression cards comprising: a database preparation computer system having: (a) means for inputting graphic images for each of said cards; (b) means for creating a high-resolution print image file for each of said images; (c) means for creating a lower-resolution display image file for each of said images; (d) means for creating a card description database defining the layout of each card in terms of its component images and their locations on the card; (e) means for creating a card parameter database defining a series of card parameters associated with certain of said cards in said card description database; and (f) data storage means for storing said card description database, print image files, and display image files; at least one card printing system having: (a) a display; (b) a printer; (c) input means; (d) data storage means for storing said card description database, print image files, and display image files; (e) processor means for using said card parameter database and said card description database to selectively retrieve display image files of cards from said data storage means and display said display images on said display; allowing a user to select a desired card via said input means; retrieving print image files for said selected card from said data storage means; and printing said print images on said printer; and means for transferring said card description database, print image files, and display image files from said database preparation computer system to said data storage means of said card printing system. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said means for transferring said card description database, print image files, and display image files comprise removable data storage media. 14. The system of claim 12 wherein said means for transferring said card description database, print image files, and display image files comprise a CD-ROM. 15. The system of claim 12 wherein said card description database further comprises information defining any text appearing on each card. 16. The system of claim 12 wherein said card description database further comprises information on fields that can be personalized for each card. 17. The system of claim 12 wherein said database preparation computer system further comprises means for creating a menu database for querying the card printing system user for a plurality of special occasion parameters and linking cards to said special occasion parameters; wherein said menu database is transferred from said database preparation system to said data storage means of said card printing system; and wherein the sequence of menus and the cards displayed for the user by said card printing system is controlled by said menu database. 18. The system of claim 12 wherein said printer reproduces color images by means of dots of a predetermined set of colors, and wherein said print images are stored in a dithered format in which said print images are reduced to patterns of said colors. 