The invention provides in one aspect a method for generating a schedule for the performance of a process, wherein the process comprises a plurality of steps. Each step of the process comprises one or more operations. The method comprises first obtaining input containing information defining the process and then generating from the input a series of nodes definitions, each node definition corresponding to at least one step of the process. Each node definition includes duration and device usage information relating to at least one step and further includes information identifying at least one previous step and at least one subsequent step. Then, one or more tasks are generated using the series of node definitions, each task comprising at least one step of the process, such that every step in the process is associated with at least one task. Once the tasks are defined, a schedule of operations is generated using the generated tasks and the node definitions, said schedule of operations corresponding to the defined process. In a preferred embodiment, the method of the present invention employs a graphical user interface to obtain the input. Also, preferably, the graphical user interface consists of icons representative of operations that may be performed on the work sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating a schedule for the performance of a process, the process comprising a plurality of steps, at least one step being performed by at least one of a plurality of devices, the method comprising: a) obtaining input containing information defining the process; b) generating from the input a series of node definitions, each node definition including duration and device usage information relating to one or more steps, each node definition further including information relating to at least one previous step and at least one subsequent step; and c) generating from the series of node definitions a plurality of tasks, each task comprising at least one step of the process, such that every step in the process is associated with at least one of the plurality of tasks; d) employing a scheduler to generate a schedule comprising a sequence of the steps of the process based on the generated tasks an allocation of the plurality of devices that avoids device usage conflicts, and the node definitions, said schedule corresponding to the defined process. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein c) further comprises generating a plurality of tasks wherein each task comprises a plurality of steps that must be performed in an unalterable sequence. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein c) further comprises generating a first task having a dependency on a second task, said dependency including a requirement that a preceding step of the second task be performed before a subsequent step of the first task is performed. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: e) controlling the operation of at least one device to perform at least one step of the process according to the generated schedule. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising: e) controlling the operation of at least one device to perform at least one step of the process according to the generated schedule. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: e) generating process code from the generated schedule, said process code executable by a control processor; and f) employing the control processor to execute the process code in order to control the operation of at least one device to perform at least one step of the process according to the generated schedule. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein a) further comprises graphically representing the input, said graphical representation including at least one icon representing at least one step, and wherein one or more temporal relationships between the plurality of steps are defined by one or more graphical connections. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein a) further includes obtaining input containing information defining an assay for processing and analyzing of one or more work samples. 9. The method of claim 4 wherein e) further comprises controlling the operation of a robotic device to facilitate the performance of one or more steps in the process. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the steps of the process include a first step associated with a first task, the first step having first and second subsequent steps, and wherein c) further comprises generating a second task including the second subsequent step. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein c) further comprises determining whether a first node definition corresponding to a first step associated with a first task includes information relating to more than one subsequent step; generating a second task if said first node definition includes information relating to more than one subsequent step, associating a first subsequent step with said first task, and associating a second subsequent step with said second task. 12. An apparatus for representing and performing a process on one or more work samples comprising: a) a graphical interface for graphical representation of the process, the process comprising a plurality of steps, at least one step corresponding to an operation performed by at least one of a plurality of devices; and b) a first processor connected to the graphical interface and operable to generate a sequence of operations based upon the graphically represented process and an allocation of the plurality of devices that avoids device usage conflicts, generate a process code sequence representative of the sequence of operations, and execute the process code sequence and thereby control the plurality of devices such that the plurality of devices operate on one or more work samples in a manner corresponding to the sequence of operations. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the graphical interface is operable to represent one or more steps of the process as a graphical icon. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising input means for facilitating operator manipulation of the graphical interface, thereby allowing an operator to define the graphical representation of the process thereon. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a robot operable to transport the one or more work samples between the plurality of devices, and wherein said first processor is further operable to control the robot. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said graphical interface is operable to represent one or more steps of the process as a graphical icon; and represent a temporal dependency relationship between a first step and a subsequent step as a graphically-represented connection between a first icon and a second icon. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said first processor is operable to: generate from the graphically-represented process a series of node definitions, each node definition including duration and device usage information relating to at least one step, each node definition further including information relating to at least one previous step and at least one subsequent step; and generate the sequence of operations using the node definitions, the sequence of operations corresponding to the graphically-represented process. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said first processor is further operable to generate a sequence of operations by generating from the series of node definitions one or more tasks, each task comprising at least one step of the process, such that every step in the process is associated with at least one task; and employing a scheduler to generate the sequence of operations using the generated tasks and the node definitions, and wherein the sequence of operations corresponds to the graphically-represented process. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said first processor is further operable to generate a first task having a dependency on a second task, said dependency including a requirement that a preceding step of the second task be performed before a subsequent step of the first task is performed. 20. An apparatus for representing and performing a process on one or more work samples, the apparatus comprising: a) a graphical interface for graphical representation of the defined process, the defined process comprising a plurality of steps; b) a plurality of devices, each of the plurality of devices operable to perform an operation on a work sample that is associated with at least one step of the process; c) a robotic device operable to facilitate movement of one or more work samples between the plurality of devices; and d) a first processor connected to the graphical interface, the plurality of devices, and the robotic device, said first processor operable to generate process code representative of a sequence of operations based upon the graphically-represented process and an allocation of the plurality of devices that avoids device usage conflicts, and control the plurality of devices based upon the process code, such that the plurality of devices operate on one or more work samples in a manner corresponding to the sequence of operations. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said graphical interface is operable to represent one or more steps of the process as a graphical icon. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said first processor is further operable to control the robotic device based upon the process code. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said plurality of devices includes a liquid handler for use in laboratory assay systems. 24. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said plurality of devices includes an incubator for use in laboratory assay systems. 25. A method for scheduling a predefined process comprising a plurality of steps, each of said steps associated with at least one subsequent step or at least one preceding step, at least one of the plurality of steps representing an operation on a work sample performed by laboratory equipment, the method comprising; defining a first task; associating a first step with the first task; determining whether there are more than one subsequent steps associated with the first step, and if there are more than one subsequent steps associated with the first step, defining a second task; associating a first of said more than one subsequent steps with the first task; associating a second of said subsequent steps with the second task; and providing the first task and the second task to a scheduling device, said scheduling device operable to define a sequence of steps, said sequence of steps corresponding to the predefined process and advantageously allocating the laboratory equipment between the performance of the steps associated with the first and second tasks. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of inserting into the second task a dependency on the first task, said dependency associated with the second subsequent step, and wherein the scheduling device is operable to define the sequence of steps based in part on the inserted dependency. 27. A method for scheduling a predefined process comprising a plurality of steps, each of said steps associated with at least one subsequent step or at least one preceding, step, at least one of the plurality of steps representing an operation on a work sample performed by laboratory equipment, the method comprising; defining a first task; associating a first step with the first task; determining whether there are more than one preceding steps associated with the first step, and if more than one preceding steps are associated with the first step, defining a second task; associating at least one of the preceding steps with the second task; and providing the first task and the second task to a scheduling device, said scheduling device operable to define a sequence of steps, said sequence of steps corresponding to the predefined process and advantageously allocating the laboratory equipment between the performance of the steps associated with the first and second tasks. 28. The method of claim 27 further comprising the step of inserting into the first task definition a dependency on the second task, said dependency associated with the first step, and wherein the scheduling device is operable to define the sequence of steps based in part on the inserted dependency. 