A system for high-speed, high-fidelity three-dimensional graphic rendering includes representing an object in three-dimensional form using a plurality of polygons. Selected views of the multi-polygon rendering are then transformed into single image mapped polygons using texture maps to represent the three-dimensional features of the object. The single image mapped polygons are dynamically displayed in place of the multi-polygon renderings for the selected views, without requiring any outside user input. This system allows increased rendering speed and smoother animation without sacrificing graphic detail.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of operating a digital computer to render an object on a display terminal, comprising the steps of: A. storing a first data set representing said object in three-dimensional space, B. displaying said object as represented by a plurality of polygons, C. dynamically analyzing a plurality of parameters to determine whether said rendered object of step (B) should undergo a transformation, D. creating a virtual view port currently used to view said object, E. dynamically transforming said first data set into a second data set, wherein said second data set defines a single image mapped polygon representing said object in three-dimensional space, F. dynamically displaying the single image mapped polygon of said object in place of the image as represented by a plurality of polygons. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of parameters includes at least one parameter selected from the set of distance, size, and regeneration angle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (E) further includes filling a background area of said single image mapped polygon with indicia indicating transparency. 4. A method for using a computer readable storage device to direct a computer to render an object on a display terminal, comprising the steps of: A. storing a first data set representing said object in three-dimensional space, B. rendering said object as represented by said data C. analyzing a plurality of parameters to determine whether said object should undergo a transformation, D. dynamically transforming said first data set into a second data set, wherein said second data set defines a single image mapped polygon representing said object in three-dimensional space, E. rendering the image mapped polygon of said object in place of the object rendered in step (B). 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said plurality of parameters includes at least one parameter selected from the set of distance, size, and angle. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein step (D) further includes filling a background area of said single image mapped polygon with indicia indicating transparency. 7. The method of claim 4, further including the step of F. creating a virtual view port currently used to view said object. 8. A process for rendering an object on a display terminal, of a graphics display computer, comprising the steps of: A. storing a first data set representing said object in three-dimensional space, B. dynamically analyzing a plurality of parameters to determine whether said object should be rendered to said terminal using said first data set or a second data set that is a transformation of said first data set, C. transforming said first data set into said second data set, wherein said second data set defines a single image mapped polygon representing said object in three-dimensional space, D. displaying the image mapped polygon of said object in place of the image as represented by a plurality of polygons. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said plurality of parameters includes at least one parameter selected from the set of distance, size, and regeneration angle. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein step (C) further includes filling a background area of said single image mapped polygon with indicia indicating transparency. 