An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses in a contact lens fabrication facility, the interactive control system consisting of a first robot device for periodically transferring individual arrays of a first predetermined amount of discrete contact lens packages each containing a contact lens therein from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where the individual arrays are conveyed to a second station, and a controller for initiating a time stamp for each individual array transferred from the first station and determining elapsed time data for each individual array and for generating position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective lenses for each individual array as it is conveyed to the second station, the controller shifting the elapsed time data and position status data for each individual array as it is conveyed on the intermediate conveyor for transfer to the second station.
Claims We claim: 1. An interactive control system constructed and arranged for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lens products in a product fabrication facility, said interactive control system comprising: (a) testing means for determining whether the products are defective; (b) a first robot device arranged for periodically transferring an individual array of a first predetermined amount of discrete products from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where said individual array is conveyed to a second station; wherein said first robot device removes products from said array that have been determined to be defective by said testing means prior to transfer to said intermediate conveyor and wherein said intermediate conveyor includes a means for consolidating the amount of products of said individual array transferred to said intermediate conveyor, said robot device enabling said consolidating means to consolidate said individual array of products and to ensure that a second predetermined amount of products is available for transfer to said second station; and (c) a controller for initiating a time stamp for said individual array transferred from said first station and determining elapsed time data for said individual array and for generating position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective products for said individual array as it is conveyed to said second station, said controller shifting said elapsed time data and position status data for said individual array as it is conveyed on said intermediate conveyor for transfer to said second station. 2. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 1, further including second robot device for periodically transferring an individual array of said second predetermined amount of individual products from said intermediate conveyor for receipt at said second station, said controller initiating rejection of said array of said second predetermined amount of products by said second robot device when said shifted elapsed time data for that array is greater than a predetermined time limit. 3. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 2, wherein said second robot rejects said individual array of said second predetermined amount of products at a predetermined scrap location. 4. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 3 wherein said controller additionally shifts elapsed time data for said individual array of said second predetermined amount and shifts position status data for said individual array as it transferred to said intermediate storage area. 5. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 2, wherein said controller determines whether said second station is available to receive said array of said second predetermined amount of products at every said period and further enables said second robot device to transfer said individual array of products of said second predetermined amount to an intermediate storage area when it is determined that said second station is not available to receive said array of second predetermined amount of products. 6. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 5, wherein said controller determines whether said second station is available to receive said array of said second predetermined amount of products at every said period and further enables said second robot device to transfer said individual array of products from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of said second predetermined amount of products is good based on said positional status data. 7. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 5, wherein said controller determines whether said second station is available to receive said array of said second predetermined amount of products at every said period and further enables said second robot device to transfer said individual array of products from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of a second predetermined amount of products in not available for transfer from said intermediate conveyor. 8. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claims 6 or 7, wherein said second station includes an indexing package dial, said second robot device transferring said individual array of said second predetermined amount of products to a predetermined location on said indexing dial. 9. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 8, wherein said controller initiates said indexing package dial to index said array of said second predetermined amount to a subsequent location after said array is transferred to said dial. 10. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 1, wherein said individual array of said first predetermined amount of products are arranged in first row and second rows of products for conveyance on said intermediate conveyor, said first robot device including means for simultaneously gripping said first and second row prior to transferring said products to said intermediate conveyor. 11. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 10, wherein said intermediate conveyor comprises first and second rails, said controller enabling said first robot device to transfer each first row of products to said first rail and said second row of products to said second rail, and further determines the amount of products transferred on each respective first and second rail at every period. 12. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 11, wherein said controller enables said first robot device to maintain the difference in the amount of products transferred to said first and second rail to within a predetermined amount. 13. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 12, wherein said predetermined amount is one (1) package. 14. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 1, wherein contact lenses are contained in a deionized water solution in said packages, said first station including a deionized water removal device for removing said deionized water from each package of said individual array prior to their transference from said first station. 15. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 14, wherein said controller generates said time stamp when said deionized water is removed from said packages. 16. An interactive control system constructed and arranged for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses in a contact lens fabrication facility, said interactive control system comprising: (a) testing means for determining whether contact lenses or contact lens packages is defective; (b) a first robot device arranged for periodically transferring an individual array of a first predetermined amount of discrete contact lens packages each containing a contact lens therein from a first station to an intermediate conveyor where said individual array is conveyed to a second station; wherein said robot device removes contact lens packages from said array that have been determined to be defective by said testing means prior to transfer to said intermediate conveyor and wherein said intermediate conveyor includes a means for consolidating the lens packages of said individual array transferred to said intermediate conveyor, said robot device enabling said consolidating means to consolidate said individual array of packages to ensure that a second predetermined amount of packages is available for transfer to said second station; and (c) a controller for initiating a time stamp for said individual array transferred from said first station and determining elapsed time data for each individual array and for generating position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective lenses for said individual array as it is conveyed to said second station, said controller shifting said elapsed time data and position status data for said individual array as it is conveyed on said intermediate conveyor for transfer to said second station. 17. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 16, wherein said robot device rejects contact lens packages of said array that may previously have been determined to be defective prior to transfer to said intermediate conveyor. 18. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 17, wherein said intermediate conveyor includes a means for consolidating the amount contact lens packages of said individual array transferred to said intermediate conveyor, said controller enabling said consolidating means to consolidate said individual array of packages to ensure that a second predetermined amount of packages is available for transfer to said second station. 19. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 16, further including a second robot device for periodically transferring an individual array of said second predetermined amount of individual packages from said intermediate conveyor for receipt at said second station, said controller initiating rejection of said array of said second predetermined amount of packages by said second robot device when said shifted elapsed time data for that individual array is greater than a predetermined time limit. 20. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 19, wherein said second robot rejects said individual array of said second predetermined amount of packages at a predetermined scrap location. 21. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 19, wherein said controller determines whether said second station is available to receive said array of said second predetermined amount of packages at every said period, and further enables said second robot device to transfer said individual array of packages of said second predetermined amount to an intermediate storage area when it is determined that said second station is not available to receive said array of second predetermined amount of packages. 22. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 21, wherein said controller determines whether said second station is available to receive said array of said second predetermined amount of packages at every said period and further enables said second robot device to transfer said individual array of packages from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of said second predetermined amount of packages is good based on said positional status data. 23. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 21, wherein said controller determines whether said second station is available to receive said array of said second predetermined amount of packages at every said period and further enables said second robot device to transfer said individual array of packages from said intermediate storage area to said second station when it is determined that an individual array of a second predetermined amount of products in not available for transfer from said intermediate conveyor. 24. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claims 22 or 23, wherein said second station includes an indexing package dial, said second robot device transferring said individual array of said second predetermined amount to a predetermined location on said indexing dial. 25. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 24, wherein said controller initiates said indexing package dial to index said array of said second predetermined amount to a subsequent location after said array is transferred to said dial. 26. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 25, wherein said packages are indexed on said indexing package dial to a saline fill location where said packages containing said contact lenses are filled with a saline solution. 27. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 20 wherein said controller additionally shifts elapsed time data for said individual array of said second predetermined amount and shifts position status data for said individual array as it transferred to said intermediate storage area. 28. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 19, wherein said time limit is about 12 minutes to about 14 minutes. 29. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 16, wherein said individual array of said first predetermined amount of packages are arranged in first row and second rows of packages for conveyance on said intermediate conveyor, said first robot device including means for simultaneously gripping said first and second row prior to transferring said packages to said intermediate conveyor. 30. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 29, wherein said intermediate conveyor comprises first and second rails, said controller enabling said first robot device to transfer each first row of packages to said first rail and said second row of packages to said second rail, and further determines the amount of packages transferred on each respective first and second rail at every period. 31. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lens as claimed in claim 30, wherein said controller enables said first robot device to maintain the difference in the amount of packages transferred to said first and second rail to within a predetermined amount. 32. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of contact lenses as claimed in claim 31, wherein said predetermined amount is one (1) package. 33. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claims 1 or 16, wherein said elapsed time data for said individual array and position status data indicating a good array or a bad array of defective lenses for said individual array is stored in a corresponding memory locations for said controller. 34. An interactive control system for controlling the automatic packaging of products as claimed in claim 33, wherein said elapsed time data for said individual array and position status data are shifted in said controller memory as said individual array are conveyed toward said second station. 