A method of programming a programmable controller in a manner by which a variety of menus, options, or questions seeking limited parameter answers are presented to the user; for example, setup parameters such as the type of labware, source and destination of reagent transfer etc. for conducting a particular biological and chemical assay experiments by an automated laboratory workstation. Software "templates" are used to focus the request for parameters from the user to tailor user needs to the laboratory workstation's capabilities. The software templates are designed to accommodate a wide variety of experimental setups in accordance with the setup parameters input by the user. By providing the parameters with the assistance of the templates, the user may program a complete set of instructions for conducting a biological or chemical assay. The instructions may include the time and method for undertaking the experiment. Further instructions may be given the laboratory workstation to conduct the later phases of experiments based upon earlier results of measurements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of programming a programmable controller comprising the steps of: providing a template comprising a statement shell having a plurality of decision windows; holding in each decision window one of a plurality of bit patterns representing either a parameter or an instruction to query the user; providing a replicate shell comprising a plurality of memory storage locations for holding a plurality of bit patterns; examining a first of said bit patterns in said decision windows of said statement shell, wherein when said bit pattern represents a parameter, said bit pattern is replicated in said replicate shell, and wherein when said bit pattern represents an instruction to query the user, a message is presented to said user to elicit a user parameter for said decision window, the user parameter is interpreted, a bit pattern is provided corresponding to said user parameter, and the bit pattern is replicated corresponding to said user parameter in said replicate shell; serially repeating at least said examining step until said plurality of memory storage locations in said replicate shell are filled with bit patterns corresponding to parameters, said filled replicate shell defining at least one executable instruction for said programmable controller; and programming said controller with said at least one executable instruction defining a program and executing said program. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said examining step comprises comparing said bit pattern to a range of valid patterns to determine whether said bit pattern is valid before replicating said bit pattern in said replicate shell. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein after a user parameter has been interpreted, said bit pattern corresponding to said user parameter is compared to a range of possible valid user parameter before replicating said bit pattern in said replicate shell. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein after said bit pattern corresponding to said user parameter has been replicated, the next examining step is directed to a decision window in the template consistent with the user parameter, whereby certain decision windows may be skipped or range of possible valid user parameter may be limited depending on said user parameter replicated. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein said message is presented in a manner including presenting a plurality of candidate parameters for selection by a user. 