Provided are hydrolases, including lipases, saturases, palmitases and/or stearatases, and polynucleotides encoding them, and methods of making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. Further provided are polypeptides, e.g., enzymes, having a hydrolase activity, e.g., lipases, saturases, palmitases and/or stearatases and methods for preparing low saturate or low trans fat oils, such as low saturate or low trans fat animal or vegetable oils, e.g., soy or canola oils.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having palmitase activity comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 85% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, and an amino acid residue modification of V163R, wherein the substrate specificity comprises increased hydrolysis of palmitic acid from an oil. 2. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein at least 45% of the fatty acid produced by hydrolysis of an oil is palmitic acid. 3. A heterodimer or a homodimer comprising a polypeptide as set forth in claim 1. 4. The polypeptide of claim 1 wherein the polypeptide is immobilized on a cell, a metal, a resin, a polymer, a ceramic, a glass, a microelectrode, a graphitic particle, a bead, a gel, a plate, an array or a capillary tube. 5. A detergent composition comprising a polypeptide as set forth in claim 1, wherein the polypeptide is formulated in a non-aqueous liquid composition, a cast solid, a granular form, a particulate form, a compressed tablet, a gel form, a powder, a gel, a hydrogel, a liposome, an aerosol, a paste or a slurry form. 6. A composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the composition is a detergent, a cosmetic, a cream, a pharmaceutical, a liposome, a tablet, a capsule, a formulation, a drug delivery agent, a food, feed, food supplement, feed supplement, dietary aid, dietary composition, or enzyme delivery matrix. 7. The polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide further comprises at least one amino acid residue modification selected from a group consisting of: D61A; D61E; R72E; R72K; E116A; E116Q; E116R; E116T; E116; S133A; I151G; I151A; V163R, D164R, or a combination thereof, and the substrate specificity of the polypeptide comprises increased hydrolysis of palmitic acid in an oil as compared to SEQ ID NO:2. 8. The polypeptide as set forth in claim 7, wherein the combination of amino acid residue modifications is set forth in FIG. 8. 9. The polypeptide as set forth in claim 7, wherein the combination of amino acid residue modifications is set forth in Table 5. 10. The variant polypeptide as set forth in claim 7, wherein the combination of amino acid residue modifications is set forth in Table 6. 11. The polypeptide as set forth in claim 7, wherein the combination of amino acid residue modifications is D61E, R72K, and V163R. 