A die casting machine has obliquely slidable die core pieces in an ejector holder block. The ejector holder block may be drawn away from the stationary die half into abutment with an ejection box by linear actuators; complementary male and female surfaces on the ejector holder block and ejection box precisely locate the ejector holder block with respect to the ejection box when the two are in abutment. The ejection box and mated ejector holder block may then be moved into abutment with the stationary die half to complete a die cavity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mold for a die casting machine comprising: a stationary die half; an ejector holder block mounted for movement forwardly toward and rearwardly away from said stationary die half such that said ejector holder block may be moved forwardly to a closed position forming, with said stationary die half, a die cavity; at least one die core piece slidably mounted in the ejector holder block for movement in a direction making an acute angle to the direction of movement of the ejector holder block between an extended position and a retracted position such that when said ejector holder block is in said closed position and said at least one die core piece is in said extended position, said die cavity is further defined; a moveable ejection box mounted rearwardly of said ejector holder block for movement forwardly toward and rearwardly away from said stationary die half; a rearward face of said ejector holder block and a forward face of said ejection box having complementary male and female locating surfaces for precisely locating said ejector holder block with respect to said ejection box when said ejector holder block is in abutment with said ejection box; an actuator for moving said ejector holder block rearwardly into abutment with said ejection box prior to movement of said ejection box forwardly toward said stationary die half. 2. The mold of claim 1 wherein said forward face of said moveable ejection box has a surface for abutting a rear surface of said at least one die core piece when said moveable ejector holder block is in abutment with said ejection box and said at least one die core piece is in said extended position in order to lock said at least one die core piece in said extended position. 3. The mold of claim 2 including, for each of said at least one die core piece, an actuator for moving each said die core piece between said extended position and said retracted position. 4. The mold of claim 3 wherein said complementary male and female locating surfaces comprise a tapered protrusion on one of said ejector holding block and said ejection box and a complementary tapered opening in the other of said ejector holding block and said ejection box. 5. A die casting machine comprising: a stationary die half; an ejector holder block mounted for movement forwardly toward and rearwardly away from said stationary die half such that said ejector holder block may be moved forwardly to a closed position forming, with said stationary die half, a die cavity; at least one die core piece slidably mounted in the ejector holder block for movement in a direction making an acute angle to the direction of movement of the ejector holder block between an extended position and a retracted position such that when said ejector holder block is in said closed position and said at least one die core piece is in said extended position, said die cavity is further defined; a moveable ejection box mounted rearwardly of said ejector holder block for movement forwardly toward and rearwardly away from said stationary die half; an actuator for moving said ejector holder block into abutment with said ejection box and for moving said ejector holder block away from said ejection box; a rearward face of said ejector holder block and a forward face of said ejection box having complementary male and female locating surfaces for precisely locating said ejector holder block with respect to said ejection box when said ejector holder block is in abutment with said ejection box; a die cast machine actuator for moving said ejection box toward and away from said stationary die half. 6. The die casting machine of claim 5 wherein said forward face of said moveable ejection box has a surface for abutting a rear surface of said at least one die core piece when said ejector holder block is in abutment with said ejection box and said at least one die core piece is in said extended position in order to lock said at least one die core piece in said extended position. 7. The die casting machine of claim 6 including, for each of said at least one die core piece, an actuator for moving each said die core piece between said extended position and said retracted position. 8. The die casting machine of claim 7 wherein said actuator for moving said ejector holder block toward or away from said ejection box acts between said ejector holder block and said ejection box. 9. The die casting machine of claim 8 wherein said actuator for moving said ejector holder block toward or away from said ejection box comprises a double acting hydraulic cylinder. 10. The die casting machine of claim 9 wherein said complementary male and female locating surfaces comprise a tapered protrusion on one of said ejector holding block and said ejection box and a complementary tapered opening in the other of said ejector holding block and said ejection box. 11. A method for forming a die cavity, comprising the steps of: for each of at least one die core piece received by an ejector holder block at an acute angle to a first direction, moving said each die core piece to an extended position; moving said ejector holder block, in said first direction, toward an ejection box such that complementary male and female surfaces on said ejector holder block and said ejection box mate to precisely locate said ejector holder block with respect to said ejection box; moving said ejector holder block and said mated ejection box in a second direction opposite said first direction toward a stationary die half to a die closed position whereat said stationary die half, said ejector holder block and said at least one die core piece form a die cavity. 12. The method of claim 11 including the step of locking said at least one die core piece in said extended position simultaneously with mating said ejector holder block with said ejection box. 