A station (10) in a manufacturing line (12) for the accurate placement of solder balls (30) on a ball grid array package and for the removal of excess solder balls comprises a substrate (4) having an array of solder pads (7), and an adhesion layer (8) on the solder pads. The station further comprises a stencil (16) placed on top of the substrate and having a height between 1/4 times the diameter of one of the solder balls and 5/4 times the diameter of one of the balls, the stencil having an array of apertures (18) corresponding to the array of solder pads and substantially exposing each of the solder pads of the array, a pallet (2) for holding and transporting the substrate to the stencil and further along the manufacturing line, a dispenser (26) for pouring solder balls in bulk over the stencil, a vibration device (20) coupled to the station for urging the solder balls into the apertures of the stencil and onto the adhesion layer above the solder pads, and a moving directed column of air (24) across the surface of the stencil to remove excess solder balls from the stencil.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of solder bumping an array of solder pads on a substrate, comprising the steps of: applying an adhesion layer to the solder pads in the array of solder pads; placing a stencil over the substrate, the stencil having an array of apertures corresponding to the array of solder pads, each aperture exposing a substantial portion of each of the solder pads in the array; applying solder balls in bulk onto the stencil, wherein the stencil allows only one solder ball per aperture; and removing excess solder balls by using gravity by tilting the stencil and substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of removing excess solder balls includes the step of brushing the excess balls off the stencil before tilting. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of removing excess solder balls includes the step of blowing the excess balls off the stencil. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the step of fixing the stencil and substrate on a pallet. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the steps of removing the stencil and reflowing the solder balls onto the array of solder pads. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of applying solder balls includes the step of using a vibrator to urge the placement of the solder balls into the aperture of the stencil and onto the adhesion layer. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the adhesion layer comprises a tacky flux. 8. A method of solder bumping an array of solder pads on a substrate, comprising the steps of: applying an adhesion layer to the solder pads in the array of solder pads; placing a stencil over the substrate, the stencil having an array of apertures corresponding to the array of solder pads, each aperture exposing a substantial portion of each of the solder pads in the array; applying solder balls in bulk onto the stencil, wherein the stencil allows only one solder ball per aperture; and removing excess solder balls by using a directed column of air across the surface of the stencil. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of removing excess solder balls further includes the step of brushing the excess balls off the stencil. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises the steps of registering the substrate onto a pallet and then registering the substrate and pallet to the stencil by matching the array of apertures of the stencil to the array of solder pads on the substrate. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises the steps of removing the stencil and reflowing the solder balls onto the array of solder pads. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the adhesion layer comprises a tacky flux. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of applying solder balls includes the step of using a vibrator to urge the placement of the solder balls into the aperture of the stencil and onto the adhesion layer. 14. A station in a manufacturing line for the accurate placement of solder balls on a ball grid array package and for the removal of excess solder balls, comprising: a substrate having an array of solder pads; an adhesion layer on the solder pads; a stencil placed on top of the substrate which allows only one solder ball to contact each solder pad, the stencil having an array of apertures corresponding to the array of solder pads and substantially exposing each of the solder pads of the array; a pallet for holding and transporting the substrate to the stencil and further along the manufacturing line; a dispenser for pouring solder balls in bulk over the stencil; a vibration device coupled to the station for urging the solder balls into the apertures of the stencil and onto the adhesion layer above the solder pads; and a means for removing excess solder balls from the stencil. 15. The station of claim 14, wherein the adhesion layer on the solder pads comprises a tacky flux. 16. The station of claim 14, wherein the dispenser for pouring solder balls also serves as a reservoir where the excess solder balls are retained. 17. The station of claim 14, wherein the means for removing comprises a moving directed column of air across the surface of the substrate. 18. The station of claim 14, wherein the means for removing comprises a device for tilting the stencil and substrate to allow the solder balls to roll off with gravity. 19. A station for the in a manufacturing line for the accurate placement of solder balls on a ball grid array package and for the removal of excess solder balls, comprising: a substrate having an array of solder pads; an adhesion layer on the solder pads; a stencil placed on top of the substrate and having a height between 1/4 times the diameter of one of the solder balls and 5/4 times the diameter of one of the balls, the stencil having an array of apertures corresponding to the array of solder pads and substantially exposing each of the solder pads of the array; a pallet for holding and transporting the substrate to the stencil and further along the manufacturing line; a dispenser for pouring solder balls in bulk over the stencil; a vibration device coupled to the station for urging the solder balls into the apertures of the stencil and onto the adhesion layer above the solder pads; and a moving directed column of air across the surface of the substrate to remove excess solder balls from the stencil. 20. The station of claim 19, wherein the stencil comprises a thin metallic surface having a height substantially the diameter of the solder balls. 21. The station of claim 19, wherein the stencil comprises a nickel plated surface. 22. The station of claim 19, wherein the dispenser for pour solder balls also serves as a reservoir where the excess solders balls are retained. 23. The station of claim 19, wherein the moving directed column of air comprises an air knife. 