A system (400) for positioning and navigating an autonomous vehicle (310) allows the vehicle (310) to travel between locations. Position information (432) is derived from global positioning system satellites (200, 202, 204, and 206) or other sources (624) when the satellites (200, 202, 204, and 206) are not in the view of the vehicle (310). Navigation of the vehicle (310) is obtained using the position information (432), route information (414), obstacle detection and avoidance data (416), and on board vehicle data (908 and 910).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for a vehicle for enabling said vehicle to track a preset path comprising: supervisory means for representing a desired path as at least a fourth order continuous function; means for planning steering, by outputting a desired steering angle, based on said desired path from said supervisory means and sensed vehicle positions input from a positioning system; means for controlling steering of the vehicle, by outputting steering servo commands to a steering system of the vehicle, responsive to said desired steering angle from said means for planning steering and to feedback from said steering system of the vehicle; means for setting speed, by outputting a desired speed signal, based on a desired speed input from said supervisory means; and means for controlling the speed of the vehicle, by outputting speed commands to a vehicle speed system, wherein said speed command is based on a difference between said desired speed signal and an actual vehicle speed fed back from said vehicle speed system. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said at least fourth order continuous function is evaluated from a cubic B-spline function. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said desired path is a geometric curve independent of time. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said desired speed is independent of said desired path. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein said means for controlling steering of the vehicle is decoupled from said means for controlling the speed of the vehicle. 6. A method of operating a system for a vehicle for enabling said vehicle to track a preset path comprising the steps of: (1) representing a desired path as at least a fourth order continuous function; (2) planning steering, by outputting a desired steering angle, based on said desired path and sensed vehicle positions; (3) controlling steering of said vehicle, by outputting steering servo commands to a steering system of the vehicle, responsive to said desired steering angle and to feedback from said steering system of the vehicle; (4) setting speed, by outputting a desired speed signal, based on a desired speed; and (5) controlling the speed of the vehicle, by outputting speed commands to a vehicle speed system, wherein said speed command is based on a difference between said desired speed signal and an actual vehicle speed fed back from said vehicle speed system. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein step (1) comprises: representing the desired path as the at least fourth order function evaluated from a cubic B-spline function. 8. A method according to claim 6, wherein step (1) comprises: representing the desired path as the at least fourth order function that is a geometric curve independent of time. 9. A method according to claim 6, wherein said desired speed is independent of said desired path. 10. A method according to claim 6, wherein step (3) is decoupled to step (5). 