The invention provides promoter specific and promoter non-specific screening assays for identifying an inhibitor of a pathogenic nucleic acid polymerase activity, e.g. an RNA polymerase derived from a pathogenic infectious organism such as a bacterium, protozoan or fungus. Generally, the methods involve forming a mixture of nucleotides, a polynucleotide template, a pathogenic polymerase candidate inhibitor of polymerase activity, where at least one of the nucleotides comprises a detectable label. The mixture is incubated under conditions whereby, but for the presence of the candidate inhibitor, the polymerase transcribes the polynucleotide template by catalyzing the polymerization of the nucleoside triphosphates into a polynucleotide having a nucleotide sequence complementary to that of the polynucleotide template. The nascent transcript is captured by a polynucleotide-selective agent immobilized on a solid substrate for subsequent washing and label detection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying an inhibitor of a nucleic acid polymerase activity, said method comprising the steps of: forming a mixture of nucleoside triphosphates, a polynucleotide template, a pathogenic nucleic acid polymerase and a candiate inhibitor of nuleic acid polymerase activity, said at least one of said nucleoside triphosphate comprising a detectable label and said polynucleotide template comprising a nucleotide sequence; incubating said mixture under conditions whereby, but for the presence of said candidate inhibitor, said polymerase transcribes said polynucleotide template by catalyzing the polymerization of said nucleoside triphosphates into a polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence complementary to that of said polynucleotide template; contacting said mixture with a polycationic, non-sequence-specific, polynucleotide-selective agent immobilized on polymeric microbeads; incubating said mixture in the presence of said polymeric microbeads under conditions to selectively bind said polynucleotide to said polynucleotide-selective agent; separating said polymeric microbeads from said mixture by membrane filtration; washing said polymeric microbeads substantially free of said nucleoside triphosphate; detecting the presence or absence of said label on said polymeric microbeads; wherein the absence of said label on said polymeric microbeads indicates that said candidate inhibitor of polymerase activity is an inhibitor of a pathogenic nucleic acid polymerase activity. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said polynucleotide-selective agent immobilized on polymeric microbeads is a suspension of diethylaminoethyl-coated polymeric microbeads. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said separating step is performed by vacuum-assisted filtration. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said forming step, said separating step and said washing step are performed at least in part in a microtiter plate by a computer-controlled electromechanical robot comprising an axial rotatable arm. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said separating and said washing step are performed in a tube having a fluid passage comprising a reservoir portion, a first filter and a second filter, each said first and said second filter extending transversely across said passage, said first filter positioned between said reservoir portion of said passage and said second filter said first filter being changeable from water-impermeable to water-permeable by contacting said first filter with an effective concentration of an organic solvent; and said second filter being water-permeable and having a maximum pore size less than about 200 um diameter. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said polymerase is a bacterial RNA polymerase and said template is double-stranded DNA devoid of one of guanine, cytosine and uracil nucleotides. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said polymerase is a eukaryotic RNA polymerase and said template is single-stranded DNA or nicked double stranded DNA. 