A fluid delivery device which delivers microliter and sub-microliter volumes by means of a reciprocating force mechanism requires no capillary contact between the delivery system and work surface. Furthermore, a built-in vacuum-based rinse station permits the user to dispense a variety of fluids while avoiding complex and time consuming changes to the fluid delivery system.
Claims I claim: 1. A process for handling liquids in an automated liquid handling apparatus, the process comprising: (a) aspirating a liquid from a first vessel having defined cartesian x-y-z coordinates into a dispensing tip positionable along at least one cartesian coordinate through an opening in the tip; (b) dispensing at least a portion of the liquid through the opening of the tip into a second vessel; (c) positioning the tip opening and an end of a rinse tubing apart from each other yet sufficiently close to each other that, under the influence of a suitable vacuum applied to the rinse tubing, an incipient droplet of the liquid at the opening of the tip would be drawn across the space between the tip opening and the rinse tubing without contacting any other solid surface; (d) urging a remaining droplet of liquid to the tip opening after the dispensing step (b); and (e) applying sufficient vacuum force to the rinse tubing to draw a stream of air into the rinse tubing, wherein the tip opening and the rinse tubing are positioned such that the air stream entrains the urged liquid droplet into the rinse tubing without contacting any other solid surface. 2. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein step (d) further comprises the steps of: delivering a cleaning solvent into the tip opening; and step (e) further comprises applying sufficient vacuum force to the rinse tubing to draw the cleaning solvent from the tip opening into the rinse tubing without contacting any other solid surface. 3. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the positioning step (c) includes the step of adjusting the cartesian z coordinate of the tip from its position after the dispensing step (b). 4. A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dispensing step (b) is performed into one or more second receiving vessels, each vessel having defined cartesian x-y-z coordinates. 5. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein steps (d) and (e) are performed while performed while changing either the cartesian x or y coordinate of the tip from its position after the dispensing step (b). 6. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein the positioning step (c) comprises the step of positioning the tip opening at a vertically lower position than the end of the rinse tubing. 7. A process as claimed in claim 1 wherein at least one of the steps (c)-(e) are performed while changing either the cartesian x or y coordinate of the tip from its position after the dispensing step (b). 