An apparatus and method which provides a suitable location for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds. The apparatus consists of: a reservoir block having a plurality of wells; a plurality of reaction tubes, usually gas dispersion tubes, having filters on their lower ends; a holder block, having a plurality of apertures; and a manifold, which may have ports to allow introduction/maintenance of a controlled environment. The manifold top wall has apertures and a detachable plate with identical apertures. The apparatus is constructed from materials which will accommodate heating, cooling, agitation, or corrosive reagents. Gaskets are placed between the components. Rods or clamps are provided for fastening the components together. Apparatus operation involves placing the filters on the lower ends of the reaction tubes in the reservoir block wells, and the upper ends passing through the holder block apertures and into the manifold. The apparatus provides in excess of 1 mg of each product with structural knowledge and control over each compound. The apparatus can be adapted to manual, semiautomatic or fully automatic performance. Using the apparatus a series of building blocks are covalently attached to a solid support. These building blocks are then modified by covalently adding additional different building blocks or chemically modifying some existing functionality until the penultimate structure is achieved. This is then cleaved from the solid support by another chemical reaction into the solution within the well yielding an array of newly synthesized individual compounds, which after postreaction modification, if necessary, are suitable for testing for activity.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, and a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, said manifold member having a top wall member, said top wall member having a plurality of apertures which are coaxial with the plurality of apertures in said holder member, wherein access is possible independently to each of said reaction tubes through said top wall member. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means sealing each of said plurality of apertures on said top wall member. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said sealing means is penetrable with a needle member. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for fastening together independently said reservoir member to said holder member and said holder member to said manifold member. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sealing together said reservoir member, holder member and manifold member. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising at least two port members on said manifold member. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a plate member positioned on said top wall member, said plate member having a plurality of apertures coaxial with said apertures in said top wall member. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 further comprising a gasket member positioned between said plate member and said top wall member, said gasket being penatrable with a needle member. 9. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each having a filter device, a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, said holder member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes, a manifold member having a central cavity for enclosing the upper ends of said plurality of reaction tubes, first sealing means for sealing said reservoir member to said holder member, second sealing means for sealing said holder member to said manifold member, and fastening means for fastening together said reservoir member, holder member and manifold member, said manifold member having a top wall member and a plurality of side wall members, said top wall member having a plurality of apertures which are coaxial with said plurality of reaction tubes, wherein independent access to each of said reaction tubes can be obtained. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 further comprising third sealing means for sealing each of said apertures in said top wall member. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said third sealing means comprises a gasket member penatrable with a needle member. 