An article accumulator is designed for use with a robotic hand. The accumulator comprises an open frame having an endless open conveyor for receiving and transporting individual aligned rows of generally flattened articles such as frozen burger patties. A receiving section of the accumulator initially receives the flattened articles in rectilinear rows. The rows of articles are then passed to a pick section of the accumulator. Operably associated with the pick section are a repositioning system and a lifting system. The repositioning system comprises an actuator, a set of plate members with vertically extending fingers, and a stop fence. The plate members are positioned below the open conveyor so that upon programmed activation, the plate members move upwardly a sufficient distance that their fingers encompass a number of articles. The fingers ensure that the articles are properly positioned. The lifting system is also positioned below the endless open conveyor holding the articles. It comprises an actuator and a set of lift rails connected thereto. The lift actuator is programmed to lift the articles above the open conveyor after they are properly positioned. While in the elevated state, a robotic hand picks them off the lift rails and deposits them into open-top cartons for distribution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An accumulator for receiving and holding generally flattened articles in a precise position for pick-up by a robotic hand, said accumulator comprising: (a) an open frame for operably positioning to an input conveyor of an article packaging line; (b) an endless open conveyor mounted on the open frame to receive rows of generally flattened articles from the input conveyor of the article packaging line and move the articles to the robotic hand; (c) a repositioning system mounted on the open frame in operable association with the generally flattened articles on the endless open conveyor, said repositioning system having (i) an actuator, and (ii) a set of plate members for each row of articles operably connected to said actuator, wherein each plate member has at least three vertically extending fingers of sufficient length to extend through the endless open conveyor at preset intervals such that programmed activation of the actuator causes the vertically extending fingers of the plate members to raise upwardly to encompass a set of the articles and reposition them on the endless open conveyor in precise spots; and (d) a lifting system mounted on the open frame in operable association with the generally flattened articles on the endless open conveyor, said lifting system having (i) an actuator, and (ii) a set of lift rails operably connected to said actuator and capable of engaging the articles and lifting them above the endless open conveyor such that programmed activation of the actuator causes the lift rails to move from a position below the endless open conveyor upwardly through said endless open conveyor to engage the articles and lift them above said endless open conveyor for a time sufficient for the robotic hand to pick said articles from the lift rails. 2. The accumulator of claim 1 wherein the endless open conveyor is a plurality of sets of spaced apart endless belts wherein each set of spaced apart narrow endless belts is capable of holding the individual rows of the generally flattened articles. 3. The accumulator of claim 2 further wherein the repositioning system has two substantially parallel plate members for each row of generally flattened articles on one of the sets of spaced apart endless belts such that one of said two plate members is mounted near an edge of an overlying row of articles and another of said plate members is mounted near an opposite edge of the overlying row of articles. 4. The accumulator of claim 3 wherein the endless belts are O-ring belts. 5. The accumulator of claim 3 wherein each plate member of the repositioning system has from three to six vertically extending fingers. 6. The accumulator of claim 1 wherein the endless open conveyor is capable of receiving from two to eight rows of the generally flattened articles and there are from two to eight sets of spaced apart endless belts wherein each set of the endless belts conveys a row of the articles. 7. The accumulator of claim 1 wherein the endless open conveyor runs continuously. 8. The accumulator of claim 1 further wherein the actuator of the repositioning system is operably connected to the plate members by linkage arms and the actuator of the lifting system is operably connected to the lift rails by linkage arms. 9. The accumulator of claim 8 wherein the repositioning system further comprises a stop fence mounted on the open frame to prevent forward movement of the generally flattened articles on the endless open conveyor and aid in repositioning of the articles. 10. The accumulator of claim 9 wherein the stop fence includes (i) an actuator and (ii) a set of stop bars for each row of articles operably connected to said actuator. 11. An accumulator for receiving and holding generally flattened articles in a precise position for pick-up by a robotic hand, said accumulator comprising: (a) an open frame for operably positioning to an input conveyor of an article packaging line; (b) an endless open conveyor mounted on the open frame to receive rows of generally flattened articles from the input conveyor of the article packaging line and move the articles to the robotic hand; (c) a repositioning system mounted on the open frame in operable association with the generally flattened articles on the endless open conveyor, said repositioning system having (i) an actuator, (ii) a set of plate members for each row of articles, wherein each plate member has at least three vertically extending fingers of sufficient length to extend through the endless open conveyor at preset intervals, and (iii) linkage arms operably connecting the actuator to the plate members such that programmed activation of the actuator extends the linkage arms thereby causing the vertically extending fingers of the plate members to move upwardly to encompass a set of the articles and reposition them on the endless open conveyor in precise spots; and (d) a lifting system mounted on the open frame in operable association with the generally flattened articles on the endless open conveyor, said lifting system having (i) an actuator, (ii) a set of lift rails capable of engaging the articles and lifting them above the endless open conveyor, and (iii) linkage arms operably connecting the actuator to the lift rails such that programmed activation of the actuator extends the linkage arms thereby causing the lift rails to move from a position below the endless open conveyor upwardly through said endless open conveyor to engage the articles and lift them above said endless open conveyor for a time sufficient for the robotic hand to pick said articles from the lift rails. 12. The accumulator of claim 11 wherein the endless open conveyor is a plurality of sets of spaced apart endless O-ring belts wherein each set of spaced apart narrow endless belts is capable of holding the individual rows of the generally flattened articles. 13. The accumulator of claim 11 wherein the repositioning system has dual sets of the linkage arms to cause the plate members to move upwardly. 14. The accumulator of claim 11 wherein the lifting system has dual sets of the linkage arms to cause the lifting rails to move upwardly. 15. An accumulator for receiving and holding generally flattened and rounded burger patties in a precise position for pick-up by a robotic hand, said accumulator comprising: (a) an open frame for operably positioning to an input conveyor of a burger patty packaging line; (b) an endless open conveyor mounted on the open frame to receive rows of generally flattened and rounded burger patties from the input conveyor of the packaging line and move the burger patties to the robotic hand; (c) a repositioning system mounted on the open frame in operable association with the generally flattened burger patties on the endless open conveyor, said repositioning system having (i) an actuator, (ii) a set of plate members for each row of burger patties, wherein each plate member having at least three vertically extending fingers of sufficient length to extend through the endless open conveyor at preset intervals, and (iii) linkage arms operably connecting the actuator to the plate members such that programmed activation of the actuator causes the vertically extending fingers of the plate members to raise upwardly to encompass a set of burger patties and reposition them on the endless open conveyor in precise spots; and (d) a lifting system mounted on the open frame in operable association with the generally flattened burger patties on the endless open conveyor, said lifting system having (i) an actuator, (ii) a set of lift rails capable of engaging the burger patties and lifting them above the endless open conveyor, and (iii) linkage arms operably connecting the actuator to the lift rails such that programmed activation of the actuator causes the lift rails to move from a position below the endless open conveyor upwardly through said endless open conveyor to engage the burger patties and lift them above said endless open conveyor for a time sufficient for the robotic hand to pick said food articles from the lift rails. 16. The accumulator of claim 15 wherein the endless open conveyor is a plurality of sets of spaced apart endless belts wherein each set of spaced apart endless belts is capable of holding the individual rows of the generally flattened and rounded burger patties. 17. The accumulator of claim 16 wherein the repositioning system further comprises a stop fence mounted on the open frame to prevent forward movement of the burger patties on the endless open conveyor and aid in repositioning of the burger patties. 18. The accumulator of claim 17 wherein the stop fence includes (i) an actuator and (ii) a set of stop bars for each row of burger patties operably connected to said actuator. 19. The accumulator of claim 18 wherein the repositioning system has dual sets of the linkage arms to cause the plate members to move upwardly. 20. The accumulator of claim 19 wherein the lifting system has dual sets of the linkage arms to cause the lifting rails to move upwardly. 