An improved elastomeric electrically conductive strain gauge for use in virtual reality systems is disclosed which involves the flash heating of a doped ethylene vinyl acetate elastomer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the preparation of an electrically conductive strain gauge material having an electrical resistance which varies with elastic extension and contraction comprising the steps of: blending an effective amount of conductive particles with a finely divided ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer for a sufficient time to produce uniform mixture of the conductive particles throughout the polymer; pressing the mixture into a sheet having a thickness of from about 1/32" to about 1/8"; cutting strips of the film and pressing the sheet to a substantially uniform thickness of about 10 mils; dimensioning the strips for use as strain gauge material; and flash-heating the strips to a temperature of at least about 600.degree. F. for a period of at least about three seconds. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the conductive material is a carbon black. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the carbon black is present in an amount of from about 20% to about 50% by weight. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the dimensions of the strips are from about 1/8 to 3/8 inches to about 7/8 to 5 inches long. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the flash heat was applied for a time of from about 3 to about 20 seconds. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the temperature of the flush treated material was from about 600.degree. to about 750.degree. F. 7. The method of claim 1 which includes the additional step of conditioning the strain gauge material with a sufficient number of stretch cycles to achieve consistency of result. 8. A method for the preparation of an electrically conductive strain gauge material having an electrical resistance which varies with elastic extension and contraction comprising the steps of: blending an effective amount of conductive particles with a finely divided copolymer for a sufficient time to produce uniform mixture of the conductive particles throughout the polymer; pressing the mixture into a flexible sheet having a predetermined thickness; cutting strips of the film and pressing the sheet to a substantially uniform thickness less than the predetermined thickness; dimensioning the strips for use as strain gauge material; and flash-heating the strips to a temperature of at least about 600.degree. F. for a period of at least about three seconds. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the conductive material is a carbon black. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the carbon black is present in an amount of from about 20% to about 50% by weight. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein the flash heat is applied for a time of from about 3 to about 20 seconds. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the temperature of the flush treated material is from about 600.degree. to about 750.degree. F. 13. The method of claim 8 which includes the additional step of conditioning the strain gauge material with a sufficient number of stretch cycles to achieve consistency of result. 