An automated means for hydrating a molded hydrophilic contact lens is provided in which a first robotic assembly removes a plurality of contact lens molds from a production line carrier, each of the lens molds having a contact lens adhered therein. The first robotic assembly transports the molds to a first staging area where the lens molds are sandwiched between a lens mold carrier and a top chamber plate to form a first hydration carrier. A first rotary transfer device then hands the first hydration carrier to a second robotic assembly which immerses the first hydration carrier in a hydration bath to hydrate the lens and to release the lens from the lens mold. While the lens is immersed in the hydration bath, each lens is transferred from its respective mold to a lens transfer means found within the top chamber plate. After a predetermined period of time, the second robotic assembly removes the first hydration carrier from the hydration bath and hands the hydration carrier off to a second rotary transfer device which rotates the first hydration carrier and aligns it for transfer to a third robotic assembly. The third robotic assembly then carries the top chamber plate and contact lenses through a series of steps in which the lens mold carrier and lens molds are removed from the top chamber plate. The lenses carried on the lens transfer means are then flushed and transported for assembly with a hydration base member to form a second hydration carrier for processing the lens in subsequent extraction stations. The second hydration carrier is then transported through a plurality of flushing or extraction stations wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into the hydration chambers at each hydration station to flush leachable substances from the hydration chamber. At each flushing station, fresh deionized water is introduced into the hydration chamber to remove previously extracted impurities and the products of hydrolysis. A final robotic dis-assembly device separates the top chamber plate and lens transfer means from the hydration base member, to provide fully hydrated lenses in a concave lens holding means ready for transfer to inspection and packaging stations.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated apparatus for manipulating, transporting and dis-assembling a hydration carrier having a mold carrier plate, a plurality of contact lens molds with a plurality of contact lenses therein and a carrier having a plurality of lens transfer members for receiving said contact lenses, said apparatus including: (a) a rotary transport device for receiving a hydration carrier in a first orientation and rotating and transporting said carrier to a second location for dis-assembly; (b) a robotic device for receiving said carrier at said second location, said robotic device having a pair of registration pins which are extended through said hydration carrier at said second location; (c) a dis-assembly device for removing said mold carrier plate and said contact lens molds, said dis-assembly device having a pair of registration members for receiving said registration pins to thereby register the hydration carrier at the second location prior to removal of the mold carrier plate and the contact lens molds. 2. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said dis-assembly device includes a plurality of vacuum grips, with a single grip for securing and removing each contact lens mold. 3. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said dis-assembly device further includes at least one vacuum grip for said mold carrier plate. 4. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said robotic device includes at least one vacuum grip for securing said carrier plate and said lens transfer members during disassembly. 5. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said robotic device translates and elevates said carrier, said lens transfer members and said contact lenses to a flush station to flush said contact lenses. 6. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said robotic device translates and inverts said carrier, said lens transfer members and said contact lenses for assembly with a hydration base member to form a second hydration carrier. 7. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said rotary transport device includes a pair of reciprocal L-shaped bracket members for receiving said hydration carrier, said device having a first open position for receiving said carrier, and a second closed position for transporting said carrier to said second location. 