A joint prosthesis for interconnecting the ends of adjoining bones includes a cushion of expanded PTFE having at least two facets for attachment to the bones. The cushion may or may not include stems for insertion into the bones. An optional sheath surrounds the non-facet surfaces of the cushion for preventing adherence of tissue. The motion of the prosthesis is defined or limited by the orientation of the facets and/or by the porosity of the cushion and/or by an insert within the cushion.
Claims We claim: 1. A joint prosthesis for replacing a natural joint between a first bone and a second bone which can move relative to the first bone, said prosthesis imitating the motion of the natural joint by interconnecting the adjoining ends of said first bone and said second bone, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene having a first facet for attachment to said first bone and a second facet for attachment to said second bone; wherein said cushion permits a bi-axial motion between said facets and a sideward motion in response to shear forces on said facets. 2. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first facet is parallel to said second facet. 3. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first facet is tilted with respect to said second facet. 4. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising: a first stem attached to and extending from said first facet; and a second stem attached to and extending from said second facet; wherein the facets and stems are more rigid than the expanded polytetrafluoroethylene. 5. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first stem and said second stem have a cross-section which prevents rotation of said prosthesis when said prosthesis is attached to said first bone and said second bone. 6. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first stem and said second stem have a circular cross-section. 7. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising: an insert within said cushion for limiting the motion of said cushion. 8. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cushion is more porous at said facets than between said facets. 9. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cushion is less porous at said facets than between said facets. 10. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 1 and further including a sheath surrounding said cushion. 11. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 10 wherein said sheath is non-porous. 12. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 10 wherein said sheath is characterized by a lower porosity than said cushion. 13. A joint prosthesis for interconnecting the adjoining ends of a first bone and a second bone, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene; a sheath partially surrounding said cushion, said sheath having a first open end and a second open end; wherein said cushion is adapted to be attached to said first bone through said first open end and said cushion is adapted to be attached to said second bone through said second open end. 14. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 13 wherein said sheath is non-porous. 15. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 13 wherein said sheath is characterized by a lower porosity than said cushion. 16. A joint prosthesis for interconnecting the adjoining ends of metacarpophalangeal bones, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene having a first facet adapted to be connected to a first metacarpophalangeal bone and a second facet adapted to be connected to a second metacarpophalangeal bone; wherein said cushion is more porous at said facets than between said facets for promoting ingrowth of the metacarpophalangeal bone. 17. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 16 and further including a sheath partially surrounding said cushion. 18. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 17 wherein said sheath is non-porous. 19. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 17 wherein said sheath is less porous than said facets. 20. A joint prosthesis for replacing a natural joint between a first bone and a second bone which can move relative to the first bone, said prosthesis imitating the motion of the natural joint by interconnecting the adjoining ends of said first bone and said second bone, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene having a first facet for attachment to said first bone and a second facet for attachment to said second bone; a first stem attached to and extending from said first facet; and a second stem attached to and extending from said second facet; wherein said cushion permits at least bi-axial motion between said facets and a sideward motion in response to shear forces on said facets, said prosthesis further comprising: an insert within said cushion for limiting the motion of said cushion along an axis. 21. The prosthesis as set forth in claim 20 and further including a sheath surrounding at least a portion of said cushion. 22. A joint prosthesis for replacing a natural joint between a first bone and a bone which can move relative to the first bone, said prosthesis imitating the motion of the natural joint by interconnecting the adjoining ends of said first bone and said second bone, said prosthesis comprising: a cushion of expanded polytetrafluoroethylene having a first facet for attachment to said first bone and a second facet for attachment to said second bone; a first stem attached to and extending from said first facet; and a second stem attached to and extending from said second facet; and a sheath surrounding at least a portion of said cushion. 