An apparatus, method and purge concentrate are capable of purging water-based and non-water-based paints and other coatings from automated and manual equipment using non-VOC containing aqueous purge solutions. Purge solutions of the invention contain water, detergent builder and wetting agents. The solution is maintained at a selected concentration and at a selected elevated temperature range by continuously recirculating the solution through the automated coating equipment. For manual equipment the solution is set at the correct concentration and maintained at the correct temperature range. For an automated system, spent purge solution can be reconditioned and recirculated to avoid waste.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for purging coating equipment, comprising: diluting a purge concentrate with water, the purge concentrate being a water-based concentrate without volatile organic compounds containing water, a detergent builder and a wetting agent, the diluting step forming a purge solution; heating the purge solution to a temperature of about 100.degree. F.-160.degree. F.; and supplying the purge solution to the coating equipment for purging the coating equipment. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the purge concentrate contains about 70%-90% by weight water, the step of diluting the purge concentrate comprising diluting the purge concentrate to 5%-50% by weight concentrate in water. 3. A method according to claim 1, including recirculating reheated purge solution to and then from the coating equipment to maintain a selected temperature of the purge concentrate without purging the coating equipment and, during a purging step, supplying purge solution through the coating equipment to form spent solution. 4. A method according to claim 3, including collecting and recondition the spent solution to form dilution water for diluting the purge concentrate. 5. A method according to claim 4, including conditioning the spent solution by filtering the spent solution to remove purged coating from the spent solution. 6. A method according to claim 5, including filtering the purged coating by first supplying the spent solution to a bag filter and thereafter supplying the spent solution to at least one additional filter to form dilution water for the diluting step. 7. A method according to claim 6, including neutralizing the spent solution after it has been filtered by the bag filter and in a neutralization tank using acid. 8. A method according to claim 7, including removing overflow liquid from the neutralization tank and evaporating the overflow liquid. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the purge concentrate for purging coating equipment comprises: about 70%-90% by weight water; about 1%-20% detergent builder which is free of volatile organic compounds; and about 0.01%-7% by weight wetting agent which is free of volatile organic compounds. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the detergent builder comprises a silicate. 11. A method according to claim 9, wherein the detergent builder comprises an amine. 12. A method according to claim 9, wherein the detergent builder comprises from about 1%-20% by weight sodium silicate. 13. A method according to claim 12, including an organic acid. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the wetting agent comprises a modified ethoxylated surfactant present in an amount of about 1%-5% by weight. 15. A method according to claim 12, including a sulfonate. 16. A method according to claim 9, wherein the detergent builder comprises mono ethanol amine present in an about of about 3%-8% by weight. 