A semiconductor cassetteand transfer system for facilitating the direct loading and unloading of wafers from different sides of a cassette by a first robot handling means moveable along a first extension axis and second robot handling means moveable along a second extension axis intersecting said first extension axis at an acute angle, and at a predetermined point concurrent with the center of the cassetteas it is disposed in a fixed position within a loadlock chamber of a wafer processing apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer cassette that can be loaded/unloaded in a first direction by a first wafer transfer blade having a first known width and moveable along a first axis and that can be loaded/unloaded in a second direction by a second wafer transfer blade having a second known width and moveable along a second axis, the second axis intersecting the first axis at an acute angle and at an intersection point substantially concurrent with a wafer support center point, the cassette comprising: at least one first wafer support, on a first side of the intersection point, for supporting an edge portion of each wafer loaded into said cassette and having a proximal and a distal edge with respect to the first direction; and at least one second wafer support, on a second side of the intersection point, for supporting a second edge of said wafer and having a proximal and a distal edge with respect to the first direction; wherein said first and second wafer supports are disposed in positions relative to said first and second axes to define a first wafer loading/unloading port between the proximal edges of the first and the second wafer supports respectively and a second wafer loading/unloading port between the distal edges of the first and the second wafer supports respectively, whereby the first and second loading/unloading ports are large enough for both said first and second transfer blades to each pass through both the first and second ports to load/unload the wafer. 2. A cassette as recited in claim 1, wherein the configuration of said first and second supports are determined by the acute angle of intersection of the first and second axes and the known widths of the first and second wafer transfer blades, such that an angle S, defined between lines drawn from the proximal and distal edges to said intersection point with where .theta. is the acute angle of intersection, W.sub.1 and W.sub.2 are the widths of the first and second wafer transfer blades respectively and r is the maximum distance from the intersection point to an edge of a wafer, is maximized. 3. A cassette as recited in claim 2, wherein the wafers are circular and r is the radius of a wafer and said first and second wafer supports include arcuate shelves for supporting the respective edge portions of said wafers. 4. A cassette as recited in claim 3, wherein each of said shelves includes a plurality of stepped shoulders for supporting said edge portions of said wafers and for limiting lateral movement of said wafers relative to said support means. 5. A system for storing and transferring at least one planar substrate having a primary plane associated therewith, the system comprising: (a) a plurality of intermediate substrate storage cassettes, each cassette including at least one substrate support having a first substrate edge support and a second substrate edge support associated therewith, each first substrate edge support being arranged in a spaced apart relationship with respect to its associated second substrate edge support so that a substrate stored in a cassette is supported at its edges by the substrate support; (b) a first substrate transfer means for transferring a substrate, along a first transfer axis associated with each storage cassette, to and from each storage cassette; and (c) a second substrate transfer means for transferring a substrate, along a second transfer axis associated with each storage cassette, to and from each storage cassette; wherein a first plane, through the first transfer axis and perpendicular to the primary plane of a substrate stored in the cassette intersects a second plane, through the second transfer axis and perpendicular to the primary plane of the substrate stored in the cassette, at an angle not equal to 180.degree., and wherein the first and associated second substrate edge supports are arranged respectively on opposite sides of the first plane and configured such that a substrate can be transferred from the cassette by both the first and second substrate transfer means without the cassette being rotated about an axis perpendicular to the primary plane of the substrate. 6. A system as recited in claim 5, wherein the first and second substrate transfer means each include substrate transfer blades of known widths for carrying substrates respectively along the first and second transfer axes. 7. A system according to claim 6 wherein both the first and associated second substrate edge supports have respective proximal and a distal edges with respect to the first transfer axis; and wherein said first and second edge supports are disposed in positions relative each other to define a first wafer loading/unloading port between the proximal edges of the first and the second edge supports respectively and a second wafer loading/unloading port between the distal edges of the first and the second edge supports respectively, whereby the first and second loading/unloading ports are dimensioned so that said first and second transfer blades can each pass through both the first and second ports to load/unload the substrate. 8. A system as recited in claim 7, wherein the first and second wafer supports are each configured to define an angle S at a point on the intersection between the first and a second planes such that where .theta. is the angle of intersection between a first and second planes, W.sub.1 is the width of the blade associated with the first substrate transfer means, W.sub.2 is the width of the blade associated with the secondary substrate transfer means, and r is the radius of a substrate being transferred. 9. A system as recited in claim 8, wherein the first and second substrate transfer means are operable to transfer substrates in respective transfer planes which are parallel to each other. 10. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein the transfer planes are horizontal and parallel to the primary plane of the substrate stored in a cassette. 11. A system as recited in claim 10, wherein said storage cassette is disposed within a loadlock chamber. 12. A system as recited in claim 11, wherein said first substrate transfer means is disposed in an ambient environment and said second substrate transfer means is disposed within a low pressure environment, passage between said environments being facilitated by said loadlock chamber. 13. A system as in claim 12, wherein said low pressure environment is maintained within a walled chamber having connected about its periphery at least one said loadlock chamber and a plurality of substrate processing chambers. 14. A system as recited in claim 13, wherein said first and second substrate edge supports include arcuate shelves for supporting the respective edge portions of said substrates. 15. A system as recited in claim 14, wherein said shelves include a plurality of stepped shoulders for supporting said edges and for limiting movement of said substrates relative to said supports. 16. A system as in claim 15, wherein said transfer blades include stepped portions corresponding to said stepped shoulders of said shelves for limiting movement of said substrate relative to said transfer blades. 17. A system as in claim 14, wherein the lengths of the arcuate shelves are maximized so as to support as much of the edge of the substrate as possible. 18. A system as recited in claim 13, further comprising: (a) a primary substrate storage device associated with each intermediate substrate storage cassette; and (b) a third substrate transfer means for transferring substrates along the first transfer axis between the primary substrate storage device and the intermediate substrate storage cassette. 19. A system as recited in claim 18, wherein the third substrate transfer means is operable to move along a path between the primary substrate storage device and the intermediate substrate storage cassette and wherein the path intersects each first transfer axis at 90.degree.. 20. A system as recited in claim 19, further comprising a cassette raising and lowering mechanism for raising and lowering an intermediate substrate storage cassette in a direction substantially perpendicular to the primary plane of the substrate stored in the intermediate substrate storage. 