A coordinate measuring machine (CMM), including three spherical base joints, a device for maintaining the base joints in a fixed spaced relation, and six actuator assemblies each having a variable length. Each of the base joints has a first end of two of the six actuator assemblies connected therewith, respectively. A center pole is provided having a first spherical joint connected to a first end thereof and a second spherical joint connected to a second end thereof. A second end of a first one of each of the two actuator assemblies connected to each of the base joints is connected to the first spherical joint of the center pole, and a second end of a second one of each of the two actuator assemblies connected to each of the base joints is connected to the second spherical joint of the center pole, in a manner which forms a hexahedron. The coordinate measuring machine further includes a probe mounted at one end of the center pole and a laser interferometer for determining a change in length of each of the six actuator assemblies upon movement of the probe. A method for initializing the CMM and an improved universal joint having a reference sphere therein for use in the CMM are also disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. A coordinate measuring device, comprising three spherical base joints, means for maintaining said base joints in a fixed spaced relation, six actuator assemblies each having a variable length, wherein each of said base joints has a first end of two of said six actuator assemblies connected therewith, respectively, a center pole having a first spherical joint connected to a first end thereof and a second spherical joint connected to a second end thereof, wherein a second end of a first one of each of said two actuator assemblies connected to each of said base joints is connected to said first spherical joint of said center pole and a second end of a second one of each of said two actuator assemblies connected to each of said base joints is connected to said second spherical joint of said center pole in a manner which forms a hexahedron, said device further including a probe mounted at one end of said center pole and means for determining a change in length of each of said six actuator assemblies upon movement of said probe. 2. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said means for determining a change in length of each of said six actuators includes a laser interferometer. 3. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 2, wherein each of said six actuator assemblies has a hollow interior and said means for determining a change in length of each of said six actuators further includes means for delivering a laser beam to said hollow interior of each of said actuator assemblies. 4. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 3, wherein said means for delivering said laser beam includes single mode, polarization preserving, fiber-optic cable. 5. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said base joints are spheres, and said first ends of said actuator assemblies are magnetic sockets which enable connection with said spheres by a magnetic force. 6. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said first and second spherical joints on said center pole are spheres, and said second ends of said actuator assemblies are magnetic sockets which enable connection with said spheres by a magnetic force. 7. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said base joints and said first and second spherical joints are spheres, and said first and second ends of said actuator assemblies are magnetic sockets which enable connection with said spheres by a magnetic force. 8. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said base joints are universal joints. 9. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said first and second spherical joints on said center pole are universal joints. 10. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said base joints and said first and second spherical joints are universal joints. 11. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 10, wherein said universal joints each include a stationary reference sphere mounted at a center point thereof, and said device further includes means for using said reference sphere to enable compensation for any non-spherical motion by said universal joints during movement of said probe. 12. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 11, wherein said means for using said reference sphere includes a proximity gauge which measures a distance between said actuator assemblies and said reference sphere, respectively, during movement of said probe. 13. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 11, wherein said means for using said reference sphere includes means for enabling said laser beam to reflect off of said reference sphere. 14. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said means for maintaining said base joints in a fixed spaced relation includes a support leg for each base joint. 15. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, wherein said means for maintaining said base joints in a fixed spaced relation includes a ring member and means for supporting said ring member, and further wherein said ring member includes means for enabling said base joints to be selectively connected with said ring member at a plurality of different relative positions thereon to enable modification of a locus of attainable positions of said probe. 16. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 1, further comprising means for self-initializing said device, including means for displacing said center pole a plurality of times, means for obtaining information on a change in the length of each of said actuator assemblies for each displacement, and means for using said information and a least square algorithm to determine an initial length of each leg and a distance between each of said base joints, thereby enabling initialization of said device. 17. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 16, wherein said means for displacing is operable to displace said center pole said plurality of times at a rate which is more than the rate at which the device is capable of undergoing any significant thermally induced changes. 18. A coordinate measuring device as defined in claim 16, further including means for continuously performing said self-initialization procedure during operation of said machine to enable accuracy of said device to be insensitive to changes in environmental conditions. 19. A method of initializing a coordinate measuring machine, said machine including three spherical base joints, means for maintaining said base joints in a fixed spaced relation, six actuator assemblies each having a variable length, wherein each of said base joints has a first end of two of said six actuator assemblies connected therewith, respectively, a center pole having a first spherical joint connected to a first end thereof and a second spherical joint connected to a second end thereof, wherein a second end of a first one of each of said two actuator assemblies connected to each of said base joints is connected to said first spherical joint of said center pole and a second end of a second one of each of said two actuator assemblies connected to each of said base joints is connected to said second spherical joint of said center pole in a manner which forms a hexahedron, said device further including a probe mounted at one end of said center pole and means for determining a change in length of each of said six actuator assemblies upon movement of said probe, said method comprising the steps of displacing said center pole a plurality of times, obtaining information on a change in the length of each of said actuator assemblies for each displacement, and using said information and a least square algorithm to determine an initial length of each leg and a distance between each of said base joints. 20. A method of initializing a coordinate measuring machine as defined in claim 19, further including the step of continuously performing said self-initialization procedure during operation of said machine to enable accuracy of said device to be insensitive to changes in environmental conditions. 