An incubator includes a housing (1) and a set (2) of shelves (3) for sample containers (8) containing cell cultures, for instance, positioned therein. In order to make it possible to use the incubator together with a robotic manipulator or similar device, the shelves (3) are fitted with guide elements (4) for the sample containers (8), the guide elements defining the relative positions of the sample containers. A door (6) in the front of the incubator permits access by a robotic manipulator. When the door (6) in the front of the incubator is closed, a door (6) in the rear of the incubator permits access to the inside of the incubator by operating personnel.
Claims We claim: 1. An incubator in which sample containers can be placed, said incubator comprising a housing having a front door on a first side thereof and a rear door on an opposite second side thereof, each of said front and rear doors defining an inner side which faces an interior of said housing when closed against said housing; and a set of carrier trays positioned in the interior of said housing, each of said set of carrier trays including a plurality of spaced apart guide elements which provide slide-in channels for sample containers, said slide-in channels being open towards said first and second sides of said housing; said inner side of each of said front and rear doors being capable of contacting and adjusting the positioning of sample containers located in said slide-in channels when each of said doors is closed. 2. An incubator as claimed in claim 1, wherein the inner side of at least one of said front and rear doors is elastic. 3. An incubator as claimed in claim 1, including pneumatic operating means connected to each of said front and rear doors for opening and closing thereof. 4. An incubator as claimed in claim 1, including a holding frame positioned in the interior of said housing, said holding frame mounting said carrier trays. 5. An incubator as claimed in claim 4, wherein said carrier trays are essentially flat and generally horizontally mounted one above another by said frame. 6. An incubator as claimed in claim 4, wherein said housing includes support means for supporting said frame at an adjustable orientation within said housing. 7. An incubator according to claim 1, wherein said guide elements are constructed as rectangular guide strips which continuously extend along a carrier tray in a direction between said first and second sides of said housing, said rectangular guide strips being spaced apart to receive microtiter plates having square outer edges therebetween. 8. An incubator according to claim 1, wherein said guide elements are fastened to said carrier trays. 9. An incubator as claimed in claim 1, including means for supplying a controlled atmosphere to said interior of said housing. 10. The combination of an incubator and a plurality of sample containers which can be placed therein, said incubator comprising a housing having a front door on a first side thereof and a rear door on an opposite second side thereof, each of said front and rear doors defining an inner side which faces an interior of said housing when closed against said housing, and a set of carrier trays including a plurality of spaced apart guide elements which provide slide-in channels for said sample containers, said guide elements partially shape-lockingly enclosing said sample containers and being open towards said first and second sides of said housing; said inner side of each of said front and rear doors being capable of contacting and adjusting the positioning of sample containers in said slide-in channels when each of said doors is closed. 