An ink cartridge for an ink jet printer has an ink supply in a housing and a printhead assembly fixedly attached thereto. The ink is contained in an absorbent material in the housing which is partitioned from the printhead assembly by a housing wall having a vent and an ink outlet. The ink flow path from the housing outlet to the printhead inlet is produced by a recess in the outer surface of the housing wall and a film member bonded thereover by a thermosetting adhesive. The film member has a slot therethrough, and the adhesive is the type not attacked by the ink. The surface of the film member opposite the surface bonded to the housing wall is coated with the same thermosetting adhesive which bonds to the printhead assembly surface containing the ink inlet. The printhead assembly ink inlet is of similar size and aligned with the film member slot, so that the thermosetting adhesive assists in the attachment of the printhead assembly to the housing and concurrently provides the fluid seal between the housing and the printhead assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. A liquid ink supply cartridge for an ink jet printer containing ink therein and including a printhead with nozzles and an ink inlet, comprising: a housing having a chamber with liquid ink, the chamber having a vent and a wall, the wall having internal and external surfaces and an outlet therethrough; a recess in the external surface of the chamber wall connected to the chamber outlet; a flexible film member having a predetermined thickness and shape and a slot therethrough at a predetermined location, the film member having first and second surfaces coated with a phenolic nitrile thermosetting adhesive highly resistant to attack by the ink, the first surface of the film member being sealingly bonded to the external surface of the chamber wall, so that the recess and outlet are covered by the film member to form a passageway from the outlet to the film member slot; and said printhead being sealingly bonded to the second surface of the film member with the film member slot being aligned with the printhead inlet. 2. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the film member is a film forming polymer having thickness of 4 to 10 mils. 3. The cartridge of claim 2, wherein the film forming polymer is a polyester material. 4. The cartridge of claim 3, wherein the adhesive on the first and second surfaces of the film member is highly resistant to outgassing when the adhesive is being cured, so that no bubbles are formed which interfere with the adhesive bonding or sealing; and wherein the adhesive is flexible after being fully cured, so that stresses induced by the assembly of the cartridge and by the printhead operating temperature fluctuations are prevented. 5. The cartridge of claim 4, wherein the cured adhesive has a Shore A durometer of about 55. 6. The cartridge of claim 4, wherein the adhesive on both sides of the film member prior to the film member being installed on the chamber external surface is a dried mixture of phenolic resin and nitrile rubber in a solvent, so that the solvent is substantially removed. 7. The cartridge of claim 6, wherein the dried adhesive has a residual solvent content of less than 0.05%. 8. The cartridge of claim 6, wherein the dried adhesive is conformable but does not migrate when heated. 9. The cartridge of claim 8, wherein the adhesive softens and wets the chamber wall surface having the recess therein at a temperature of 80.degree. C. for about eight seconds with a pressure of about 50-90 psi; and wherein the adhesive tacks the film member to the chamber wall when the adhesive cools to room temperature to prevent movement of the film member relative to the external wall surface of the housing. 10. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the phenolic nitrile includes the combination of a phenolic resin and nitrile rubber. 11. The cartridge of claim 1, wherein the phenolic nitrile includes the combination of novolac and nitrile rubber. 