A lift pin arrangement for use in semiconductor processing apparatus wherein the lift pins are of a shape memory alloy. The lift pins exhibit superelasticity and/or shape memory effects which allows the lift pins to withstand substantial bending forces without permanent deformation thereof, and in the case where the lift pins become deformed it is possible to restraighten the lift pins simply by heating the lift pins to an appropriate temperature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lift pin of a lift pin mechanism of a substrate processing apparatus, the lift pin consisting essentially of a shape memory alloy having a memorized configuration. 2. The lift pin of claim 1, wherein the shape memory alloy is transformable from a martensitic state to an austenitic state, the lift pin being restorable from a deformed configuration to the memorized configuration by heating the lift pin to a temperature at which the shape memory alloy transforms to the austenitic state. 3. The lift pin of claim 1, wherein the shape memory alloy is a nickel titanium alloy having a martensite-to-austenite transformation temperature below ambient. 4. The lift pin of claim 1, wherein the lift pin is supported on a lifter forming part of a substrate holder of a substrate processing chamber, the lifter being movable in a vertical direction between upper and lower positions, the lift pin having an upper surface located above a substrate support surface of the substrate holder when the lifter is in the upper position and the upper surface of the lift pin being below the substrate support surface when the lifter is in the lower position. 5. The lift pin of claim 4, wherein part of the lift pin passes through a lift pin hole in the substrate holder when the lifter moves from the lower position to the upper position. 6. The lift pin of claim 5, wherein the lift pin has a cross section which fills 55 to 75% of the lift pin hole. 7. The lift pin of claim 1, wherein the lift pin is supported on a lifter of a substrate processing apparatus, the lifter being movable in a vertical direction. 8. The lift pin of claim 1, wherein the lift pin is a rectilinearly extending cylindrical pin press fitted in a lifter of a lift pin mechanism. 9. The lift pin of claim 8, wherein the lifter is of plastic, ceramic or metal material. 10. A process of treating a substrate in a substrate processing chamber, comprising: moving a substrate to be processed to a process position in a substrate processing chamber; raising a lifter having a plurality of lift pins to an upper position at which the substrate is supported on upper ends of the lift pins, each of the lift pins consisting essentially of a shape memory alloy having a memorized configuration; lowering the lifter to a lower position at which the substrate is supported on a substrate holder in the substrate processing chamber; treating the substrate with the process; raising the lifter to the upper position; and transferring the substrate out of the substrate processing chamber. 11. The process of claim 10, wherein the shape memory alloy is a nickel titanium alloy which is transformable from a martensitic state to an austenitic state, the lift pin being restorable from a deformed configuration to the memorized configuration by heating the lift pin to a temperature at which the shape memory alloy transforms to the austenitic state. 12. The process of claim 11, further comprising restoring at least one of the lift pins from the deformed configuration to the memorized condition by heating the lift pin to a temperature at which the shape memory alloy transforms from the martensitic state to the austenitic state. 13. The process of claim 10, wherein the step of processing the substrate is carried out at a temperature no greater than 0.degree. C. 14. The process of claim 10, wherein the step of processing the substrate is carried out at a temperature no lower than 0.degree. C. 15. The process of claim 10, wherein each of the lift pins passes through a hole in the substrate holder when the lifter moves from the lower position to the upper position. 16. The process of claim 15, wherein each of the lift pins has a cross section which is at least 55% as large as the cross section of the hole. 17. The process of claim 16, wherein the cross section of each of the lift pins is no greater than 75% of the cross section of the hole. 18. The process of claim 10, wherein the lift pins extend through holes in the substrate holder, at least part of the lift pins being in the holes when the lifter is lowered to the lower position. 19. The process of claim 10, wherein the shape memory alloy has a martensite-to-austenite transformation temperature of no less than 25.degree. C. 20. The process of claim 10, wherein the shape memory alloy has a martensite-to-austenite transformation temperature of greater than 25.degree. C. 21. A process of transporting a substrate in a substrate processing apparatus, comprising: moving a substrate to be processed to a first process position in a first part of the substrate processing apparatus; raising a lifter having a plurality of lift pins to an upper position at which the substrate is supported on upper ends of the lift pins, each of the lift pins consisting essentially of a shape memory alloy having a memorized configuration; and moving the substrate to a second process position by lowering the lifter to a lower position at which the substrate is supported on a support surface. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the shape memory alloy is a nickel titanium alloy which is transformable from a martensitic state to an austenitic state, the lift pin being restorable from a deformed configuration to the memorized configuration by heating the lift pin to a temperature at which the shape memory alloy transforms to the austenitic state. 23. The process of claim 21, wherein the shape memory alloy has a martensite-to-austenite transformation temperature of no less than 25.degree. C. 24. The process of claim 21, wherein the shape memory alloy has a martensite-to-austenite transformation temperature of greater than 25.degree. C. 25. The process of claim 21, wherein the support surface is an upper surface of a movable robotic arm. 