Process for generating a trajectory for a robotized system comprising at least one member and making it possible to vary the speed of the movement in real time. The process consists of choosing a main movement, e.g. the translation movement of the member and all the other movements are dependent thereon. The main movement takes place on the trajectory broken down into a section having a speed ensuring the possibility of stopping the member at the end of the section following that which has been covered. The dependent movements are covered in synchronized manner with the main movement to the extent that this is possible. The invention can e.g. apply to the automatic trimming or deburring of parts having a complex shape. It is possible to envisage robotized systems formed from several independently mobile solids coordinated by the process, or several control dependency instructions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for generating a trajectory for a robotized system having at least one mobile member and moving the robotized system according to the trajectory, the trajectory consisting of a superimposition of movements by the one mobile member and being defined by a succession of sections joined by passage points defined by coordinates, where the system is at a given state, comprising the steps of: selecting a main movement and a dependent movement; reading the coordinates, when each of the sections is reached by the robotized system to become a current section, of a first passage point at which the current section begins, a second passage point at which the current section ends and a next section begins, and a third passage point at which the next section ends; determining a target velocity of said main movement at said second passage point, said target velocity allowing the robotized system to reach said third passage point at a nil speed according to a maximal possible deceleration imposed on the robotized system between said second passage point and said third passage point; determining a main velocity of said main movement between a previous passage point and a next passage point according to a first velocity at said previous passage point, said target velocity, and a maximal possible acceleration; determining a dependent velocity of said dependent movement according to said main velocity so that the robotized system travels over the current section with respect to said dependent movements substantially at the same velocity with respect to said main movement; and controlling the robotized system to move the robotized system through each of the sections so that, for each section, the robotized system travels at said target velocity at a second passage point of each section, travels at said main velocity during at least a portion of the main movement, and travels at said dependent velocity during at least a portion of said dependent movement. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein said dependent movement is made at respective maximal dependent accelerations or decelerations until the sections are travelled over by said dependent movement at said main velocity. 3. The process according to claim 1, wherein for at least some of the sections the main velocity and dependent velocity are proportional. 4. The process according to claim 1, wherein said main movement is a translational movement of said one mobile member and said dependent movement is a rotational movement of said one mobile member. 5. The process according to claim 4, wherein said one mobile member comprises a robot arm carrying a tool, said process being a deburring process in which a sinuous burr on a workpiece is removed by said tool, said dependent movement being an inclination of said tool over the burr, and said main movement corresponding to displacements along segments of the sinuous burr. 6. The process according to claim 4, wherein said rotational movement is performed within each of the sections in a series of successive cycles in which, for said one mobile member, a second axis of rotation is determined, about which said one mobile member rotates so as to reach an orientation required at the end of the section, and rotary displacements at a maximum rotational acceleration are imposed to said one mobile member so that an actual axis of rotation of said one mobile member converges to said second axis of rotation. 