A system and method for eliminating swing motions in gantry-style cranes while subject to operator control is presented. The present invention comprises an infinite impulse response ("IIR") filter and a proportional-integral ("PI") feedback controller (50). The IIR filter receives input signals (46) (commanded velocity or acceleration) from an operator input device (45) and transforms them into output signals (47) in such a fashion that the resulting motion is swing free (i.e., end-point swinging prevented). The parameters of the IIR filter are updated in real time using measurements from a hoist cable length encoder (25). The PI feedback controller compensates for modeling errors and external disturbances, such as wind or perturbations caused by collision with objects. The PI feedback controller operates on cable swing angle measurements provided by a cable angle sensor (27). The present invention adjusts acceleration and deceleration to eliminate oscillations. An especially important feature of the present invention is that it compensates for variable-length cable motions from multiple cables attached to a suspended payload.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for damping payload sway in a crane having a payload suspended by multiple variable-length cables from a trolley, the trolley being moveable in a horizontal plane the payload being moveable in a vertical plane, the system comprising: cable length sensor means for providing outputs indicative of the lengths of the multiple variable-length cables; operator input means for generating input signals; crane controller means responsive to a control signal, for controlling the velocity and acceleration of the trolley; and filter means, responsive to said input signals and said outputs, for generating a control signal for said crane controller to dampen the payload sway associated with movement of the trolley, said filter means having variable control parameters that are varied by signals applied to said filter. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising cable angle sensor means for sensing a change in at least one cable swing angle with respect to a vertical plane of the trolley. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising feedback controller means for compensating for disturbances that are external to the system, wherein said feedback controller means provides feedback to said filter means, the feedback being characterized by the disturbances. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said filter means is characterized by a discrete time-domain linear state model. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said filter means is an infinite impulse response filter. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said infinite impulse response filter is implemented on a general purpose digital computer that is programmed with a difference equation to dampen payload swing. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the difference equation is characterized by where y(k) represents the output signals of the infinite impulse response filter at discrete time k, u(k) represents the input signals of the infinite impulse response filter at discrete time k, a.sub.1, a.sub.2, a.sub.3, b.sub.0, b.sub.1, b.sub.2, b.sub.3, and b.sub.4 represent the variable control parameters. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein variable control parameters a.sub.1, a.sub.2, a.sub.3, b.sub.0, b.sub.1, b.sub.2, b.sub.3, and b.sub.4 are a function of g, l, .xi., .kappa., and T, where g is gravity, l is the variable cable length, .xi. is a damping ratio characterized by ##EQU49## where l is the velocity of the variable cable length, .kappa. is a scale factor characterized by ##EQU50## where .sigma. is a desired time constant and .omega. is the natural frequency of oscillation of the suspended payload, and T is a predetermined sampling period. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said feedback controller means is a proportional integral feedback controller. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the variable control parameters are modified based on the length of the variable length cables. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the variable control parameters are modified based on the height of a payload. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the control signals are a function of the input signals. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein the variable control parameters are updated real time. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein the system is subject to a fixed control interval. 15. A method for damping payload sway in a crane having a payload suspended by multiple variable-length cables from a trolley, the trolley being moveable in a horizontal plane, comprising the steps of: moving the trolley via input signals from an operator input device; providing filter means for receiving the input signals from the operator input device, the filter means being characterized by variable control parameters that can be updated; determining a variable cable length; determining the natural frequency of oscillation .omega., updating the variable control parameters of the filter means; changing the input signals of the filter means to output signals, the output signals being a function of the input signals and the variable control parameters; and sending the output signals to a crane controller to damp payload sway. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: providing at least one estimated cable swing angle; and measuring at least one actual cable swing angle with a cable angle sensor determining a cable swing angle error from the at least one estimated cable swing angle and the at least one actual cable swing angle; and continuously feeding back to feedback controller means the cable swing angle error. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of combining the cable swing angle error with the output signals. 18. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of continuously feeding back external disturbances to the filter means. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of updating the variable control parameters of the filter means includes a natural frequency of oscillation .omega.. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the natural frequency of oscillation .omega. is characterized by ##EQU51## where g is gravity and l is the length of the variable cable length. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the natural frequency of oscillation .omega. is characterized by ##EQU52## where g is gravity and l.sub.eff is the effective cable length of the variable cable length. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein l.sub.eff is a function of payload width, payload height, cable swing angle, trolley pulley distance, and variable cable length. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein l.sub.eff is characterized by ##EQU53## where h is the height of the payload, w is the width of the payload, c is the distance between a set of spreader pulleys, and ##EQU54## where d is the distance between a set of trolley pulleys. 24. The method of claim 19 wherein the natural frequency of oscillation .omega. is a function of gravity, payload mass, payload height, payload width, cable swing angle, spreader pulley distance, trolley pulley distance, and variable cable length. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the natural frequency of oscillation .omega. is characterized by ##EQU55## where ##EQU56## where c is a distance between a set of spreader pulleys, d is a distance between a set of trolley pulleys, ##EQU57## where m is the mass of the payload, g is gravity, I.sub.z is the mass moment of inertia characterized by ##EQU58## where h is the height of the payload, w is the width of the payload, and x is the commanded acceleration in the horizontal plane of the trolley. 26. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of updating the variable control parameters of the filter means includes a damping ratio .xi., wherein the damping ratio .xi. is characterized by ##EQU59## where g is gravity, l is the cable length, and l is the velocity of the variable cable length. 27. The method of claim 15 wherein the filter means controls motion of the trolley, the filter means being subject to a settling time, the settling time being a function of a scale factor .kappa., the scale factor .kappa. being characterized by .kappa.=.sigma./.omega., where .sigma. is a desired time constant and .omega. is a natural frequency of oscillation of the suspended payload. 