The present invention provides a rotary union interconnecting a material supply line and a dispense valve. Preferably, the rotary union comprises a rotatable member having a mounting end coupled to a rotating means and a dispense end including a conduit formed therein for dispensing a preselected material. According to the invention, a housing is rotatably supported about the rotatable member such that the rotatable member is rotatable relative to the housing. The housing includes an opening formed therein for communicating with the conduit and a material supply line. Even more preferably, the rotating means comprises a rotatable face plate operably coupled to a sixth axis motor of a multi-axis robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic dispensing apparatus for dispensing a preselected material to a desired location comprising: a multi-axis robot including a base, said base rotatably supporting a main body portion along a first axis, said main body portion pivotally supporting a support member about a second axis, said support member pivotally supporting an arm about a third axis, said arm having a first end rotatable along a fourth axis with respect to a second end, a wrist member pivotally connected to said arm about a fifth axis, and a face plate rotatably mounted to said wrist along a sixth axis; a motor disposed along said sixth axis for rotating said face place; a face plate adapter secured to said face plate by at least one threaded member passing through said face plate adapter and threadingly engaging said face plate; a rotatable member coupled to said face plate adapter at a first end by at least one threaded member passing through said face plate adapter and threadingly engaging said rotatable member, said rotatable member including a dispense conduit formed therein from a second end; a housing rotatably supported about said rotatable member such that said rotatable member is rotatable relative to said housing, said housing including an opening formed therein; a plurality of roller bearings interposed between said housing and said rotatable member for rotatably supporting said housing; a material supply line coupled to said housing so as to communicate with said opening; at least one seal sealingly engaging said housing and said rotatable member to fluidly isolate said roller bearings from said opening and said dispense conduit; and said housing including at least one weep hole between said roller bearings and said seal for indicating leaks in said seal. 2. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one channel interconnecting said opening and said dispense conduit. 3. The robotic dispensing apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing further comprises a void encircling said dispense nozzle and interconnecting said dispense conduit and said opening. 4. A rotary union comprising: a rotatable member having a first end and a second end, said rotatable member being secured to a rotating means at said first end by at least one threaded member threadingly engaging a threaded bore axially formed in said first end, said rotatable member further including a dispense conduit formed therein from said second end; a plurality of roller bearings interposed between said rotatable member and a housing such that said housing is rotatably supported about said rotatable member and said rotatable member may be rotated relative to said housing by said rotating means, said housing including an opening formed therein communicating with said dispense conduit; and a material supply line coupled to said housing so as to communicate with said opening. 