A UV light-enhanced process for rapidly stripping films of silicon nitride in a dry reaction environment, which may be free of plasma or plasma effluents. This process is carried out in a sealed reactor which allows simultaneous exposure of a substrate wafer to a polyatomic fluorine containing gas which can be photodissociated by UV radiation to produce atomic fluorine and to UV radiation. Silicon nitride stripping rates in excess of 500 .ANG./min are readily obtainable with UV-stimulated fluorine-based processes, while maintaining the bulk wafer temperature below 300.degree. C. Selectivities for silicon nitride-to-silicon oxide etching of greater than 30 can be achieved for the stripping of silicon nitride LOCOS mask layers in the presence of field oxide and pad oxide layers when a chlorine or bromine containing gas which can be photodissociated by UV radiation to produce atomic chlorine or bromine is used in mixture with the fluorine containing gas. Selectivity and etch rate are controlled through UV lamp exposure, substrate temperature, and additions of nitrogen diluent, and photodissociable chlorine or bromine containing gases. The process addresses many of the limitations of plasma-downstream etch tools for dry silicon nitride stripping, including complete elimination of charged particles and sputtered contaminants associated with plasma effluents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of removing silicon nitride from a substrate, the method comprising placing the substrate in a gaseous environment comprising at least one first gas and at least one second gas, the first gas being a fluorine-containing gas which can be photodissociated by UV radiation to produce atomic fluorine and the second gas being a chlorine-containing or a bromine containing gas which can be photodissociated by UV radiation to produce atomic chlorine or bromine, and exposing the substrate to UV irradiation in the presence of the gaseous environment. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the gaseous environment is substantially free of plasma products. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the first gas is selected from the group consisting of fluorine, fluorine interhalogens, fluorides of sulfur and xenon difluoride. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises silicon or silicon oxide. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein the gaseous environment further comprises a third gas, the third gas being an inert gas. 6. A method as in claim 5 wherein the third gas is selected from the group consisting of helium (He), argon (Ar), and nitrogen (N.sub.2). 7. A method as in claim 1 wherein the substrate further comprises on at least a portion of the surface thereof a silicon oxide material which is desired to be retained on the substrate. 8. A method as in claim 7 wherein the silicon oxide material comprises a doped oxide film, a CVD oxide film, or a thermal oxide film. 9. A method as in claim 8 wherein the doped oxide is selected from the group consisting of boron and phosphorus doped silica glass, phosphorous doped silica glass, boron doped silica glass, and spin on glass. 10. A method as in claim 7 wherein the silicon oxide material desired to be retained comprises a thermally grown field oxide formed as a result of a LOCOS process. 11. A method as in claim 1 wherein the silicon nitride material to be etched is part of a composite stack of materials which includes at least one material selected from the group consisting of silicon oxynitride, polysilicon, and silicon oxide. 12. A method as in claim 1 wherein the silicon nitride is a mask layer for a LOCOS process on a silicon substrate. 13. A method as in claim 12 wherein a thermally grown pad oxide layer is located between the silicon substrate and the silicon nitride mask layer, the method being conducted under conditions of time, gas flow rates, UV intensity, first and second gas ratios and temperature such that the pad oxide layer is not penetrated. 14. A method as in claim 13 wherein a polysilicon layer is located between the pad oxide layer and the silicon nitride mask layer and the method conducted for sufficient time to remove the polysilicon layer as well as the silicon nitride mask layer. 15. A method as in claim 1 wherein the silicon nitride to be removed has an over layer of silicon oxynitride. 16. A method as in claim 1 wherein the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 180-400 nm is at least 50 mW/cm.sup.2, the temperature of the substrate before irradiation is in the range of 20.degree.-400.degree. C., and the partial pressure of said first gas is at least 10 torr. 17. A method as in claim 16, wherein the first gas is F.sub.2, ClF.sub.3, or BrF.sub.3, the second gas is chlorine, the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 180-400 nm is at least 200 mW/cm.sup.2, the pressure of the first gas is at least 20 torr and the first and second gases are present at a pressure ratio of 2:1-1:2, and the temperature of the substrate before irradiation is at least 150.degree. C. 18. A method as in claim 1 wherein the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 240-400 nm is at least 200 mW/cm.sup.2. 19. A method as in claim 1 wherein the substrate is a silicon wafer, the method further comprising the steps of: (a) prior to said placing step, evacuating a hermetically-sealed processing chamber having a UV transparent window therein to a low base pressure and introducing the silicon wafer substrate into the processing chamber, (b) conducting said placing step by introducing into said chamber said gaseous environment, (c) conducting said exposing step by irradiating the gaseous environment and substrate in said chamber to ultraviolet light through said UV transparent window, (d) evacuating the processing chamber, and (e) removing the substrate from the processing chamber. 20. A method as in claim 1 wherein the placing step comprises introducing said first and second gases into a chamber containing said substrate and the method further comprises the step of exciting said gases by a plasma generating source prior to introducing said gases into said chamber. 21. A method as in claim 20 wherein said exciting step is accomplished with a microwave or a radio frequency energy source. 22. A method of removing silicon nitride from a substrate, the method comprising: placing the substrate in a gaseous environment comprising at least one first gas, the first gas being a fluorine-containing gas which can be photodissociated by UV radiation to produce atomic fluorine, and exposing the substrate to UV irradiation in the presence of the gaseous environment, wherein the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 180-400 nm is at least 50 mW/cm.sup.2, the temperature of the substrate before irradiation is in the range of 20.degree.-400.degree. C., and the partial pressure of said first gas is at least 10 torr. 23. A method as in claim 22 wherein the gaseous environment is substantially free of plasma products. 24. A method as in claim 22 wherein the placing step comprises introducing said first and second gases into a chamber containing said substrate and the method further comprises the step of exciting said gases by a plasma generating source prior to introducing said gases into said chamber. 25. A method as in claim 24 wherein said exciting step is accomplished with a microwave or a radio frequency energy source. 26. A method as in claim 22 wherein the first gas is selected from the group consisting of chlorine trifluoride, bromine trifluoride, bromine pentafluoride, iodine pentafluoride, xenon difluoride, fluorine and sulfur hexafluoride. 27. A method as in claim 22 wherein the substrate comprises silicon or silicon oxide. 28. A method as in claim 22 wherein the gaseous environment further comprises an inert gas. 29. A method as in claim 22 wherein the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 180-400 nm is at least 200 mW/cm.sup.2. 30. A method as in claim 22 wherein the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 240-400 nm is at least 200 mW/cm.sup.2. 31. A method as in claim 22 wherein the partial pressure of the first gas is in the range of 10 torr-760 torr. 32. A method as in claim 31 wherein the partial pressure of the first gas is at least 50 torr, the temperature of the substrate before irradiation is 150.degree.-250.degree. C., and the integrated intensity of the UV irradiation at the substrate surface over the range of 180-400 nm is at least 200 mW/cm.sup.2. 33. A method as in claim 22 wherein the temperature of the substrate before irradiation is at least 150.degree. C. 34. A method as in claim 22 wherein the method produces a silicon nitride removal rate of at least 100 .ANG./min. 35. A method as in claim 34 wherein said silicon nitride removal rate is at least 500 .ANG./min. 