An ultrasonic measurement device and a method for a non-destructive evaluation of polymer composites having discontinuous fibers distributed therein. The device has one or a plurality of substantially matched pairs of transducers disposed on wedge shaped focuser and a relay, the focuser and relay each have their impedances substantially matched to that of the polymer composite being analyzed. The device is placed on a surface of the composite with the apexes of the focuser and relay in close contact with the surface. A velocity of a substantially longitudinal ultrasonic wave generated by the first transducer and received by the second transducer after its passage through the composite is determined at several angles of orientations about a center point, and the measured velocities of the ultrasonic wave are processed through a computer having software to determine the physical attributes of the composite, such as weight percentage of fibers present in the composite, Young's modulus, shear modulus and Poisson's ratio of the composite.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A measurement device for determining the in-plane physical attributes of an anisotropic lossy medium, comprising: (I) wave generator means for generating an ultrasonic sound wave; (II) focusing means having an impedance substantially matched to that of said medium wherein said focusing means focuses and transmits said ultrasonic wave through said medium; (III) wave converter means for converting into an electrical signal a first attenuated wave received through said medium; (IV) relaying means having an impedance substantially matched to that of said medium wherein said relaying means relays said first attenuated wave to said converter means; and (V) processing means for transforming said signal into a record of said attributes; said processing means (V) comprising: (A) means for determining velocities of said first attenuated ultrasonic wave transmitted through said medium at various angles of orientation (.PSI.) within said medium; and (B) means for determining said physical attributes of said medium; said determining means (B) further comprising: means for plotting a measured anisotropic velocity (v) distribution diagram as a function of said angles of orientation (.PSI.) and said determined velocities; means for screening said measured anisotropic velocity distribution diagram to determine v.sub.maximum, .PSI..sub.maximum, v.sub.minimum and .PSI..sub.minimum ; means for computing a measured degree of anisotropy from said v.sub.minimum /said v.sub.maximum ; means for computing an area of said measured anisotropic velocity distribution diagram from ##EQU10## where .pi. equals 3.14159 . . .; means for retrieving a lookup chart for said measured degree of anisotropy stored in a data storage area of said processing means wherein said lookup chart provides measured normalized area distribution; means for determining an area of isotropic velocity distribution from a ratio of said measured anisotropic velocity distribution to said measured normalized area distribution; means for determining a volume fraction of reinforcement in said medium, the reinforcement corresponding to weight percentage in said medium, said means for determining a volume fraction of reinforcement employing a functional relationship between said volume fraction and a theoretical area of isotropic velocity distribution or data representative of said functional relationship; means for comparing and matching a theoretical velocity distribution diagram with said measured velocity distribution diagram to determine the eccentricity of an elliptical distribution function; means for determining C.sub.ijkl tensors from said elliptical distribution function; and means for calculating said physical attributes of said medium from said C.sub.ijkl tensors. 2. The device according to claim 1 further comprising amplifier means for providing a gain to said signal. 3. The device according to claim 1 further comprising a support member having a lower propagation velocity than said medium wherein said focusing means and said relaying means are secured to said support member. 4. The device according to claim 3 further comprising sliding means disposed on said support member to provide slidable adjustment to said focusing means and to said relaying means such that distance between said focusing and relaying means can be varied. 5. The device according to claim 4 wherein said focusing means and said relaying means each have a cuneate shape wherein an apex of said cuneate shape is downwardly disposed from said focusing means and said relaying means and wherein a base of said cuneate shape is adjacent to said support member such that each apex of said focusing and relaying means contacts a surface of said medium. 6. The device according to claim 1 wherein said wave generator means comprises: a first electroacoustic transducer mounted on said focusing means; and an adjustable electrical supply means for supplying variable power to said first electroacoustic transducer such that said first electroacoustic transducer is capable of generating said ultrasonic sound wave of a desired frequency and power. 7. The device according to claim 6 wherein said converter means comprises: a second electroacoustic transducer mounted on said relaying means; and a receiver means for receiving said electrical signal for further analysis. 8. The device according to claim 7 wherein said first electroacoustic transducer and said second electroacoustic transducer have substantially same piezoelectric constant. 9. The device according to claim 5 wherein said means for determining said velocities comprises: means for recording an angle of said angles of orientation (.PSI.) of said device with respect to a datum; means for determining a time interval required at each of said angles of orientation (.PSI.) for said electrical signal to arrive from said apex of said focusing means to said apex of said relaying means; and means for pivoting said device along a center point to place said device at a series of said angles of orientation (.PSI.) for obtaining a corresponding series of time intervals. 10. The device according to claim 1 further comprising means for displaying said physical attributes of said medium. 11. The device according to claim 10 further comprising means for imprinting a character representing an orientation of said wave generator means on said medium. 12. The device according to claim 1 wherein said focusing means comprises a plurality of transmitting transducer assemblies secured to a mounting means at various angles of orientation relative to a center point of said mounting means, and said relaying means comprises a corresponding plurality of receiving transducer assemblies, each of said plurality of transmitting transducer assemblies having a receiving transducer assembly associated therewith and positioned at a diametrically opposed location about said center point, so as to form a plurality of transmitter/receiver pairs. 13. The device according to claim 12 further comprising a central relaying means in the form of a central receiving transducer assembly, said central relaying means being disposed at a common crossing point of a straight line extending between each pair of said plurality of transmitter/receiver pairs. 14. The device according to claim 13 wherein said mounting means has a higher impedance than said anisotropic Lossy medium. 15. The device according to claim 13 wherein each of said plurality of transmitting transducer assemblies and each of said plurality of receiving transducer assemblies has a focusing wedge means having a cuneate shape extending away from said mounting means and forming a knife-edge apex at a lower end thereof. 16. The device according to claim 15 wherein said central transducer assembly has a conically shaped focusing means forming a point contact. 17. The device according to claim 16 wherein each said knife-edge apex of each of said focusing wedge means and said point contact of said conically shaped focusing means all lie in a single plane. 18. The device according to claim 12 wherein a transducer element in each of said plurality of transmitting transducer assemblies and in each of said receiving transducer assemblies is cylindrically focused. 19. The device according to claim 13 wherein a transducer element in said central receiving transducer assembly is spherically focused. 20. The device according to claim 12 further comprising switch means for successively selecting a transmitter/receiver pair. 21. The device according to claim 20 further comprising a computer and wherein said switch means is a digital switch means controlled by said computer. 22. The device according to claim 13 wherein said means for determining velocities of said ultrasonic wave includes means for measuring a time differential between the arrival of said first attenuated wave at the central receiving transducer assembly and at a receiving transducer assembly diametrically opposed to a transmitting transducer assembly which has transmitted the ultrasonic wave. 23. A method of determining the in-plane physical attributes of an anisotropic medium comprising: (a) selecting a surface area of said medium and placing a measurement device on said surface; (b) recording an angle of orientation (.PSI.) of a velocity measurement to be taken by said device with respect to a datum; (c) transmitting an ultrasonic wave through said medium; (d) determining a time interval required at said orientation for a signal corresponding to a first attenuated ultrasonic wave to travel between a first predetermined point and a second predetermined point; (e) repeating steps (b)-(d) above at a plurality of angles of orientation (.PSI.); (f) plotting a measured anisotropic velocity distribution diagram as a function of said plurality of angles of orientation (.PSI.) wherein a measured velocity (v) at each angle of orientation (.PSI.) is determined by dividing the distance between said first and second predetermined points by the time interval determined at each said angle of orientation (.PSI.); (g) screening said measured anisotropic velocity distribution diagram to determine v.sub.maximum, .PSI..sub.maximum, v.sub.minimum and .PSI..sub.minimum ; (h) computing a measured degree of anisotropy from said v.sub.minimum /said v.sub.maximum ; (i) computing an area of said measured anisotropic velocity distribution diagram from ##EQU11## where .pi. equals 3.14159 . . .; (j) retrieving a lookup chart for said measured degree of anisotropy stored in a data storage area of said processing means wherein said lookup chart provides measured normalized area distribution; (k) determining an area of isotropic velocity distribution from a ratio of said measured anisotropic velocity distribution to said measured normalized area distribution; (l) obtaining a measured volume fraction of reinforcement present in said medium, the reinforcement corresponding to weight percentage in said medium by employing a functional relationship between said volume fraction and a theoretical area of isotropic velocity distribution or employing data representative of said functional relationship, wherein the ratio-determined area of step (k) is used as a pertinent value for a theoretical area of isotropic velocity distribution; (m) comparing and matching a theoretical velocity distribution diagram with said measured velocity distribution diagram to determine an eccentricity of an elliptical distribution function; (n) determining C.sub.ijkl tensors from said elliptical distribution function; (o) calculating said physical attributes of said medium from said C.sub.ijkl tensors. 24. The method according to claim 23 comprising the further step of: (p) displaying said attributes. 25. The method according to claim 24 comprising the further steps of: (q) determining the amplitude of said first attenuated ultrasonic wave, and (r) matching said amplitude with a predetermined acceptable range, wherein steps (q) and (r) are performed before step (d)is performed. 26. The method according to claim 23 wherein said attributes are Young's modulus, shear modulus and Poisson's ratio for said medium in x, y and z directions. 