The present invention relates to a computer aided design and manufacturing system. The system comprises a platform suspended by means of three pairs of supportive legs which are coupled at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three universal joints, each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair.
Claims We claim: 1. A precision drive arrangement for moving an elongate rectilinear member longitudinally whilst permitting omnidirectional pivotal movement of said member, said arrangement comprising a spherical ball within which there is housed an electric motor having an axial hollow drive shaft through which said elongate rectilinear member is adapted to extend with a driving interaction between the motor and the elongate member, an annular mounting collar for said spherical ball having an internal part-spherical surface complementary to the spherical surface of the ball and contiguous with the ball surface, and means interacting between the surface of the spherical ball and the contiguous internal surface of the annular collar for permitting relative rotational movement of the ball and the collar except in a direction about the axis of the motor drive shaft. 2. A precision drive arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one longitudinal groove is provided in the external surface of the spherical ball and a groove-follower is mounted in the annular collar and engages in the groove so as to permit movement of the spherical ball in the annular socket in a sense such as relatively to translate the groove-follower in the groove and inhibit movement transverse to such permitted movement. 3. A precision drive arrangement as claimed in claim 2, wherein said groove-follower is mounted in the annular collar for rotation about an axis radial to the internal part-spherical surface of the collar. 4. A mechanical movement system wherein means defining a base for further movement is mounted for movement with substantial freedom in translation and rotation by means of a plurality of legs, the effective length and angular orientation whereof are controllably adjustable, the means defining a base for further movement comprising a platform having three pairs of supportive legs coupled thereto at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three universal joints, each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair, and the two legs of each pair extending from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in a mounting, whereat each leg is drivingly engaged by controllable leg drive means for moving the leg in its own longitudinal direction, the leg drive means associated with each leg being mounted so as to be capable of accommodating angular movement of its respective leg by means of a precision drive arrangement, said precision drive arrangement comprising a spherical ball within which there is housed an electric motor having an axial hollow drive shaft through which said elongate rectilinear member is adapted to extend with a driving interaction between the motor and the elongate member, an annular mounting collar for said spherical ball having an internal part-spherical surface complementary to the spherical surface of the ball and contiguous with the ball surface, and means interacting between the surface of the spherical ball and the contiguous internal surface of the annular collar for permitting relative rotational movement of the ball and the collar except in a direction about the axis of the motor drive shaft. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the triangularly spaced-apart locations whereat the three pairs of supportive legs coupled to the platform are equilaterally spaced apart, and the locations in the mounting whereat the legs are drivingly engaged by the leg drive means are arranged in a hexagon, wherein the spacing between the respective locations for the two legs of each pair of legs are uniform as between the three pairs of legs, and the spacings between the adjacent legs of different pairs of legs are uniform. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5, including means coupled to said platform and providing for movement additional to the platform movement arising out of movements of the legs. 7. A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the mounting of one or more components of the system includes a clamp arrangement precisely determining the position of the component in the system, said clamp arrangement comprising three struts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three mating saddles such that the arrangement has only one settling point in 6-axis space. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7, adapted and arranged for use as a machine tooling apparatus. 9. A system as defined in claim 8, and including a cabinet comprising upper, central and lower sections, the machine tooling apparatus being arranged to effect machining operations within said central section, one of the other sections containing air blowing and swarf collection systems, and the other of the other sections containing control systems for the apparatus. 10. In combination with a system as claimed in claim 9, a jigging system for use in calibrating the system, said jigging system comprising: a first jig having three identical, co-planar stub shafts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and a member defining a predetermined measuring position located equidistantly from said three stub shafts; and a second jig having means defining three identical, co-planar V-interfaces spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three members defining measuring positions located equidistantly between respective pairs of said V-interfaces, the first and second jigs being adapted and arranged to simulate the respective Kelvin clamp mounting arrangement. 11. A mechanical movement system wherein means defining a base for further movement is mounted for movement with substantial freedom in translation and rotation by means of a plurality of legs, the effective length and angular orientation whereof are controllably adjustable, the means defining a base for further movement comprising a platform having three pairs of supportive legs coupled thereto at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three ball and socket universal joints, each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair, and the two legs of each pair extend from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in a mounting whereat each leg is drivingly engaged by controllable leg drive means for moving the leg in its own longitudinal direction, the leg drive means associated with each leg being mounted by ball and socket means such as to be capable of accommodating movement in all directions except about the longitudinal axis of the respective leg. 12. A system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the triangularly spaced-apart locations whereat the three pairs of supportive legs coupled to the platform are equilaterally spaced apart, and the locations in the mounting whereat the legs are drivingly engaged by the leg drive means are arranged in a hexagon wherein the spacing between the respective locations for the two legs of each pair of legs are uniform as between the three pairs of legs, and the spacings between the adjacent legs of different pairs of legs are uniform. 13. A system as claimed in claim 11, wherein said ball and socket means mounting each leg drive means comprises a spherical ball, an annular collar having an internal part-spherical surface for capturing said spherical ball, and means providing interaction between the ball and the annular collar for permitting rotational movement of the ball in the collar in all directions except about the longitudinal axis of the respective leg. 14. A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the leg drive means for each of said plurality of legs is housed within the ball of the ball and socket means which mounts the respective leg. 15. A system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the leg drive means for each of said plurality of legs comprises an electric motor having an axial hollow drive shaft through which the respective leg extends with a driving interaction provided between the motor and the leg. 16. A system as claimed in claim 15, including means coupled to said platform and providing for movement additional to the platform movement arising out of movements of the legs. 17. A system as claimed in claim 11, adapted and arranged for use as a machine tooling apparatus. 18. A system as claimed in claim 17, and including means for retaining a workpiece in the machine tooling apparatus. 19. A system as claimed in claim 18, and including a cabinet comprising upper, central and lower sections, the machine tooling apparatus being arranged to effect machining operations within said central section, one of the other sections containing air blowing and swarf collection systems, and the other of the other sections containing control systems for the apparatus. 20. In combination with a system as claimed in claim 19, a jigging system for use in calibrating the system, said jigging system comprising: a first jig having three identical, coplanar stub shafts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and a member defining a predetermined measuring position located equidistantly from said three stub shafts; and a second jig having means defining three identical, co-planar V-interfaces spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three members defining measuring positions located equidistantly between respective pairs of said V-interfaces; the first and second jigs being adapted and arranged to simulate the respective clamp mounting arrangement. 21. A universal joint comprising a first member of spherical form constrained within a complementary recess of spherical form in a second member, said first member providing a mounting for a pair of legs which are capable of pivotal movement relative to each other about the center of the first member, said recess in said second member being hemispherical or less than hemispherical, and magnetic means constraining said first member within the recess of said second member. 22. A universal joint as claimed in claim 21, wherein said first member comprises a bifurcated ball having two halves which provide mountings for the respective ends of said pair of legs, the two halves of the bifurcated ball being constrained for rotation only about a common axis and the ball being rotatable freely about any axis within the complementary recess. 23. A universal joint as claimed in claim 22, wherein the two halves of the bifurcated ball are journalled for rotation with respect to each other about a common axis by the provision of ball bearings running in a ball race defined by cooperating surfaces of the two halves of the bifurcated ball. 24. A mechanical movement system wherein means defining a base for further movement is mounted for movement with substantial freedom in translation and rotation by means of a plurality of legs, the effective length and angular orientation whereof are controllably adjustable, the means defining a base for further movement comprising a platform having three pairs of supportive legs coupled thereto at triangularly spaced-part locations by means of three universal joints, each of said universal joints comprising a first member of spherical form constrained within a complementary recess of spherical form in a second member, said first member providing a mounting for a pair of legs which are capable of pivotal movement relative to each other about the center of the first member, said recess in said second member being hemispherical or less than hemispherical, and magnetic means constraining said first member within the recess of said second member, each of said universal joints being coupled to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair, and the two legs of each pair extending from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in a mounting, whereat each leg is drivingly engaged by controllable leg drive means for moving the leg in its own longitudinal-direction, the leg drive means associated with each leg being mounted so as to be capable of accommodating angular movement of its respective leg. 25. A system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the triangularly spaced-apart locations whereat the three pairs of supportive legs coupled to the platform are equilaterally spaced apart, and the locations in the mounting whereat the legs are drivingly engaged by the leg drive means are arranged in a hexagon wherein the spacing between the respective locations for the two legs of each pair of legs are uniform as between the three pairs of legs, and the spacings between the adjacent legs of different pairs of legs are uniform. 26. A system as claimed in claim 25, wherein the leg drive means comprise electric motors drivingly engaged with screw threads provided on the legs. 27. A system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the mounting of one or more components of the system includes a clamp arrangement precisely determining the position of the component in the system, said clamp arrangement comprising three struts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three mating saddles, such that the arrangement has only one settling point in 6-axis space. 28. A system as claimed in claim 27, adapted and arranged for use as a machine tooling apparatus. 29. A system as claimed in claim 28, and including a cabinet comprising upper, central and lower sections, the machine tooling apparatus being arranged to effect machining operations within said central section, one of the other sections containing air blowing and swarf collection systems, and the other of the other sections containing control systems for the apparatus. 30. In combination with a system as claimed in claim 28, a jigging system for use in calibrating the system, said jigging system comprising: a first jig having three identical, co-planar stub shafts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and a member defining a predetermined measuring position located equidistantly from said three stub shafts; and a second jig having means defining three identical, co-planar V-interfaces spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three members defining measuring positions located equidistantly between respective pairs of said V-interfaces; the first and second jigs being adapted and arranged to simulate the respective Kelvin clamp mounting arrangement. 31. A mechanical movement system wherein means defining a base for further movement is mounted for movement with substantial freedom in translation and rotation by means of a plurality of legs, the effective length and angular orientation whereof are controllably adjustable, the means defining a base for further movement comprising a platform having three pairs of supportive legs coupled thereto at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three universal joints, each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair, and the two legs of each pair extend from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in a mounting whereat each leg is drivingly engaged by controllable leg drive means for moving the leg in its own longitudinal direction, the leg drive means associated with each leg being mounted so as to be capable of accommodating angular movement of its respective leg, and the three universal joints each comprising: a bifurcated ball having two halves which provide mountings for the respective leg ends and are constrained for rotation only about a common axis, the legs of each pair thereby being capable of pivotal movement relative to each other about the center of the bifurcated ball; and a member having a complementary recess of spherical form within which said bifurcated ball is received so as to be rotatable about any axis. 32. A system as claimed in claim 31, wherein each half of the bifurcated ball is connected to a strut providing for the mounting of a respective one of a pair of legs or constituting an end portion of the respective leg, and the two struts are configured to permit the two legs to pivot with respect to each other to a minimum angle subtended at the center of the bifurcated ball. 33. A system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the triangularly spaced-apart locations whereat the three pairs of supportive legs coupled to the platform are equilaterally spaced apart, and the locations in the mounting whereat the legs are drivingly engaged by the leg drive means are arranged in a hexagon wherein the spacing between the respective locations for the two legs of each pair of legs are uniform as between the three pairs of legs, and the spacings between the adjacent legs of different pairs of legs are uniform. 34. A system as claimed in claim 31, including means coupled to said platform and providing for movement additional to the platform movement arising out of movements of the legs. 35. A system as claimed in claim 34, wherein said means for providing said additional movement is adapted and arranged to provide rotational movement in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the platform. 36. A system as claimed in claim 35, wherein said means for providing rotational movement in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the platform comprises a motor driven member rotatably mounted with respect to the platform and arranged to be accurately positionable at any one of a plurality of predetermined positions relative to the platform. 37. A system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the mounting of one or more components of the system includes a clamp arrangement precisely determining the position of the component in the system, said clamp arrangement comprising three struts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three mating saddles such that the arrangement has only one settling point in 6-axis space. 38. A system as claimed in claim 37, adapted and arranged for use as a machine tooling apparatus. 39. A system as claimed in claim 38, including a cabinet comprising upper, central and lower sections, the machine tooling apparatus being arranged to effect machining operations within said central section one of the other sections containing air blowing and swarf collection systems, and the other of the other sections containing control systems for the apparatus. 40. In combination with a system as claimed in claim 39, a jigging system for use in calibrating the system, said jigging system comprising: a first jig having three identical, co-planar stub shafts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and a member defining a predetermined measuring position located equidistantly from said three stub shafts; and a second jig having means defining three identical, co-planar V-interfaces spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three members defining measuring positions located equidistantly between respective pairs of said V-interfaces; the first and second jigs being adapted and arranged to simulate the respective Kelvin clamp mounting arrangement. 41. A machine tooling apparatus incorporating a mechanical movement system for determining the operation of a cutting tool, said mechanical movement system comprising means defining a base for further movement mounted for movement with substantial freedom in translation and rotation by means of a plurality of legs the effective length and angular orientation whereof are controllably adjustable, the means defining a base for further movement comprising a platform having three pairs of supportive legs coupled thereto at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three universal joints, each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair, and the two legs of each pair extending from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in a mounting whereat each leg is drivingly engaged by controllable leg drive means for moving the leg in its own longitudinal direction, the leg drive means associated with each leg being mounted so as to be capable of accommodating angular movement of its respective leg, means on said platform for holding said cutting tool in operative condition, and a computer system for controlling said leg drive means so as to move a cutting tool held in said tool holding means in a desired manner during a machining operation, said computer system including computer aided design facilities enabling an operator to formulate the design of an object to be shaped by operation of the machine tooling apparatus and means to effect automatic computer aided manufacture of the designed object by the cutting of a workpiece with a cutting tool held in said tool holding means and utilizing data generated in use of the computer aided design facilities. 42. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 41, adapted and arranged for the manufacture of an object by machining a block of material, and wherein the computer system is adapted and arranged to maintain a 3-D bitmap representation of the part-machined block at each stage of the machining process and to effect collision avoidance procedures relative to said 3-D bitmap representation to avoid collisions between the cutting tool and the block and the block of material being machined both during machining and during movement of the cutting tool around the block of material being machined. 43. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 41, and including a cabinet comprising upper, central and lower sections, the machine tooling apparatus being arranged to effect machining operations within said central section, one of the other sections containing air blowing and swarf collection systems, and the other of the other sections containing control systems for the apparatus. 44. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 43, wherein the triangularly spaced-apart locations whereat the three pairs of supportive legs coupled to the platform are equilaterally spaced apart, and the locations in the mounting whereat the legs are drivingly engaged by the leg drive means are arranged in a hexagon wherein the spacing between the respective locations for the two legs of each pair of legs are uniform as between the three pairs of legs, and the spacings between the adjacent legs of different pairs of legs are uniform. 45. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 41, wherein said tool holding means includes means coupled to said platform and arranged to provide rotational movement in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the platform. 46. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 45, wherein said means for providing rotational movement in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the platform comprises a motor driven member rotatably mounted with respect to the platform. 47. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 46, wherein the motor driven member and the platform, or respective elements affixed thereto, comprise a plurality of radially spaced-apart annular grooves with the grooves on one of the two members being complementarily shaped with respect to and engaging in the grooves on the other of the two members. 48. A machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 41, wherein the mounting of one or more components of the system includes a clamp arrangement precisely determining the position of the component in the system, said clamp arrangement comprising three struts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three mating saddles such that the arrangement has only one settling point in 6-axis space. 49. In combination with a machine tooling apparatus as claimed in claim 48, a jigging system for use in calibrating the apparatus, said jigging system comprising: a first jig having three identical, co-planar stub shafts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and a member defining a predetermined measuring position located equidistantly from said three stub shafts; and a second jig having means defining three identical, co-planar V-interfaces spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three members defining measuring positions located equidistantly between respective pairs of said V-interfaces; the first and second jigs being adapted and arranged to simulate the respective Kelvin clamp mounting arrangement. 50. A precision drive gimbal arrangement for moving an elongate rectilinear member longitudinally while permitting omnidirectional pivotal movement of said member, said arrangement comprising a mounting, an electric motor carried by said mounting and having a hollow drive shaft through which said elongate rectilinear member is adapted to extend with a driving interaction between the motor and the elongate member, a retainer for said mounting having an internal surface complementary to the external surface of the mounting and contiguous therewith, said contiguous surfaces interacting for permitting relative rotational movement of the mounting and the retainer about a first axis, and supports for said retainer permitting relative rotational movement of the retainer with respect to the supports about a second axis orthogonal to the first. 