The present invention is a method and apparatus for processing a plurality of small work-pieces which each weighs under five pounds using a robot gripping a rotatable pallet for holding an array of small parts. The robot has a removable tooling plate mounted on its head for mounting an array of processing tools operating on the rotatable pallet such as pick-and-place tools, work-piece ejection tools, vertical and horizontal video cameras, reflective photocell sensors, and laser distance ranging sensors. The tools operate under control of the robot and in conjunction with rotation and elevation of the rotatable pallet with respect to the tool array. The tools are mounted by an interchangeable, standard bracket to permit quick installation or removal of the tool mounting plate and addition or placement of individual devices and sensors appropriate to particular robotic tasks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing processing operations on at least one work-piece retained in a gripper holder and to be used in conjunction with a robot having a head capable of controlled X, Y, and Z movements, the gripper holder attached to the head, the apparatus comprising: a. a tooling plate fixedly mounted to said head of said robot for retaining at least one processing tool to perform an operation on said at least one work-piece, where said at least one work-piece is positioned by said gripper holder of said head of said robot relative to the at least one processing tool; and b. means for mounting said at least one processing tool to said tooling plate. 2. An apparatus for performing processing operations on at least one work-piece, comprising: a. a head capable of moving in X, Y, and Z directions and having a wrist joint attached to an end effector, where the head moves the wrist joint which moves the end effector vertically and rotating the end effector in a horizontal plane; b. a tooling plate fixedly mounted to said head; c. at least one processing tool mounted on said tooling plate for performing an operation on said at least one work-piece which is positioned by said end effector moving relative to the at least one processing tool; and d. a gripper holder attached to said end effector of said wrist joint of said head for temporarily gripping said at least one work-piece such that the gripper holder can rotate and move vertically so that said at least one work-piece is positioned relative to said at least one processing tool on said tooling plate. 3. An apparatus for performing processing operations on at least one work-piece retained by a gripper holder and to be used in conjunction with a robot having a head capable of controlled X, Y, and Z movements, the gripper holder attached to the head, the apparatus comprising: a. a tooling plate fixedly mounted to said head of said robot; b. at least one processing tool retained on said tooling plate for performing an operation on said at least one work-piece, where said at least one work-piece is positioned by said gripper holder relative to the at least one processing tool; and c. means for mounting said at least one processing tool to said tooling plate. 