A method and apparatus for fabricating known good semiconductor dice are provided. The method includes the steps of: testing the gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to singulate a die; and then testing the die by assembly in a carrier having an interconnect adapted to establish electrical communication between the bond pads on the die and external test circuitry. The interconnect for the carrier can be formed using different contact technologies including: thick film contact members on a rigid substrate; self-limiting contact members on a silicon substrate; or microbump contact members with a textured surface. During assembly of the carrier, the die and interconnect are optically aligned and placed into contact with a predetermined contact force. This establishes an electrical connection between the contact members on the interconnect and the bond pads of the die. In the assembled carrier the die and interconnect are biased together by a force distribution mechanism that includes a bridge clamp, a pressure plate and a spring clip. Following testing of the die, the carrier is disassembled and the tested die is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing a known good semiconductor die comprising: forming the die on a semiconductor wafer; singulating the die from the wafer; providing a carrier having an electrical connector adapted for electrical connection to test circuitry; providing an interconnect adapted to mount to the carrier, said interconnect including a contact member corresponding to a contact location on the die, said contact member in electrical communication with the electrical connector on the carrier; aligning the contact member on the interconnect with the contact location on the die using a vision system; assembling the die and carrier by placing the die in contact with the interconnect with a contact force and maintaining the die and the interconnect in contact using a force distribution mechanism removably attached to the carrier; testing the die using the carrier; and disassembling the carrier by removing the force distribution mechanism and separating the tested die from the interconnect. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising identifying the carrier with a code for tracking the die during the testing step. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising limiting a penetration depth of the contact member into the contact location. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising providing an interconnect that is interchangeable with other interconnects to permit testing of different types of semiconductor dice using a universal carrier. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein aligning the contact members with the contact location is performed using an assembly tool having a vacuum conduit for the die. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein aligning the contact member on the die with the contact location on the interconnect is performed using an aligner bonder having the vision system. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein assembling and disassembling the carrier is with an automated apparatus having the vision system. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1 and wherein the interconnect includes silicon contact members having a raised oxide penetrating projection. 9. A method for fabricating a known good semiconductor die comprising: forming a wafer containing a plurality of semiconductor dice; testing a gross functionality of the dice contained on the wafer; sawing the wafer to separate a die; providing a carrier for holding the die, said carrier including an external connector electrically connectable to test circuitry and a force distribution mechanism for retaining the die within the carrier; providing an interconnect for mounting within the carrier, said interconnect including a raised contact member adapted to penetrate a contact location on the die to establish an electrical connection therewith, said contact member in electrical communication with the external connector; optically aligning the die with the interconnect; assembling the carrier and force distribution mechanism together to establish the electrical connection and to retain the die within the carrier in contact with the interconnect; biasing the die and interconnect together using the force distribution mechanism; testing the die using test circuitry electrically attached to the external connector on the carrier; and removing the tested die from the carrier. 10. The method as recited in claim 9 and further comprising identifying the carrier. 11. The method as recited in claim 9 and further comprising providing a plurality of interconnects each suited for use with a particular die and interchangeable within the carrier. 12. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the interconnect includes a substrate having a plurality of silicon contact members formed with raised projections for penetrating the contact locations on the die to a predetermined depth. 13. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the interconnect includes a plurality of raised contact members formed using an ultrasonic forging process. 14. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the interconnect includes a plurality of microbump contact members. 15. The method as recited in claim 9 and wherein the force distribution mechanism includes a pressure plate and the die is attached to the pressure plate during assembly of the carrier using a vacuum force. 16. A method for fabricating a known good semiconductor die comprising: testing a gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to separate the die; providing a carrier for holding the die including a connector for connection to external test circuitry and a force distribution mechanism for retaining the die within the carrier; providing an interconnect including a substrate having a contact member formed thereon said interconnect adapted to provide a temporary electrical connection to the die; assembling the die with the carrier by optically aligning the die and the interconnect, then placing the die and the interconnect in contact using a predetermined force to establish an electrical connection between the contact member and a contact location on the die; biasing the die and interconnect together using the force distribution mechanism; testing the die by connecting external circuitry to the connector on the carrier; and separating the tested die from the interconnect and carriers. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the force distribution mechanism includes a bridge clamp removably attachable to the carrier, a spring clip attached to the bridge clamp and a pressure plate adapted to contact the spring clip and the die and bias the die into contact with the interconnect. 18. The method as claimed in claim 16 and further comprising identifying the carrier to enable tracking of the carrier and die during the testing step. 19. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the carrier is assembled using an assembly apparatus that includes a vision alignment system. 20. The method as claimed in claim 16 and wherein the carrier is assembled using an assembly apparatus that includes a vision alignment system and a robot responsive to the vision alignment system for automatically aligning the die and interconnect and assembling the carrier. 21. A method for fabricating a known good semiconductor die comprising: picking a singulated die from a wafer; providing a carrier for testing the die having a plurality of connectors adapted for electrical connection to test circuitry; identifying the carrier; providing an interconnect having an arrangement of contact members adapted to establish electrical connections with contact locations on the die said interconnect interchangeable with other interconnects to permit testing of different types of dice using the carrier; mounting the interconnect within the carrier and establishing an electrical path between the connectors on the carrier and the contact members on the interconnect; providing a force distribution mechanism for attachment to the carrier; attaching the die to the pressure plate using an assembly tool; aligning the die and the interconnect using optical alignment; assembling the carrier by moving the die into contact with the interconnect and exerting a force on the die with the assembly tool to establish the electrical connection; attaching the force distribution mechanism to the carrier to exert a biasing force on the pressure plate and bias the die and interconnect; testing the die using the assembled carrier; and then removing the force distribution mechanism and separating the die from the interconnect. 22. The method as recited in claim 21 and wherein the assembly tool is adapted to hold the force distribution mechanism, pressure plate and die and to move the die into contact with the interconnect while attaching the force distribution mechanism to the carrier. 23. The method as recited in claim 21 and wherein the pressure plate includes an opening and the assembly tool directs a vacuum through the opening to secure the die to the pressure plate. 24. The method as recited in claim 21 and wherein the assembly tool is adapted to move the die along a z-axis and a movable support associated with the assembly tool is adapted to move the interconnect along an x, y and z-axes and in a rotational direction .theta., to align the die with the interconnect and initiate contact therebetween. 25. The method as recited in claim 21 and wherein the assembly tool is adapted to move the die along a z-axis, along an x-axis, along a y-axis and in a rotational direction .theta. to align the die with the interconnect and initiate contact therebetween. 26. The method as recited in claim 21 and further comprising moving the assembly tool responsive to a vision alignment system. 27. The method as recited in claim 21 and further comprising identifying the carrier with a bar code. 