A spherical motor (10) provides smooth isotropic motion. The spherical motor (10) has a spherical stator (12) surrounding a spherical rotor (18). A motor shaft (24) is mounted to the rotor (18), or alternatively, to the stator (12) for performing work in isotropic motion. A grid pattern is situated to move substantially concentrically with the rotor (18) and in conjunction with the motor shaft (24). A vision system (80) monitors the grid pattern (42) and determines in real time the position of the motor shaft (24). The vision system (80) has at least one image sensor (44) positioned on the stator (12) and a computer system (82) for processing data independent of a remote host computer (122). Further, a motor controller (191) using a motor control algorithm (200) may be interfaced with the vision system (80) to thereby derive a motor control system (190) for controlling the spherical motor (10) based upon the rotor orientation information retrieved by the vision system (80). Finally, a video controller (106) can be interfaced with the vision system (80) for converting digital image data in real time to analog image data conforming to the RS-170 television standard for viewing on a display device (116).
Claims Wherefore, the following is claimed: 1. A system for controlling a spherical motor having a spherical stator concentric with a spherical rotor and actuation means for controlling relative movement between the stator and the rotor, comprising: a computer system having a digital signal processor for processing digital image data, a communications port for communication with a host computer, a ROM for receiving a program for operating said computer system from said host computer, and a RAM for receiving and running said program; an imaging system in communication with said computer system, said imaging system having an image sensor for receiving an image from an illuminated object, an analog-to-digital converter for converting said image to digital image data, and a video buffer for storing said digital image data and for writing said digital image data to said computer system; means for selectively causing said imaging system to discard pixel areas of said image which are outside of a pertinent pixel area containing said object, said pixel area defined by selectable rows and selectable columns, and for directly transferring said pertinent pixel area to said digital signal processor; means for determining torques to be applied by said stator upon said rotor to achieve a desired rotor trajectory; and means for controlling said actuation means to achieve said torques. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said actuation means comprises a plurality of stator poles on said stator and a plurality of rotor poles on said rotor. 3. The system of claim 16, further comprising: means for determining stator current values for said pluralities of stator poles in order to achieve said torques; means for comparing said stator current values with respective maximum current values corresponding with said stator poles; means for replacing each stator current value with a corresponding maximum current value when said stator current value exceeds said maximum current value; and means for forwarding said stator current values to said plurality of said stator poles. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for minimizing total energy input to said actuation means in order to achieve said desired rotor trajectory. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for controlling said actuation means by computing a control vector from said torques, said control vector having three orthogonal vector components, each of said vector components having a weighting factor coefficient. 6. A system for controlling a variable reluctance spherical motor, comprising: a spherical stator having a plurality of stator poles; a spherical rotor surrounded by said stator and having a plurality of rotor poles, said spherical rotor and said spherical stator having a common center; means for permitting relative movement of said rotor and said stator about said common center; a grid pattern substantially concentric and movable with said rotor; an image sensor configured to view said grid pattern; processing means connected to said image sensor, said processing means for determining a three dimensional orientation of said rotor relative to said stator from an image of said grid pattern; and control means associated with said processing means, said control means for determining a torque to be applied by said stator upon said rotor to achieve a desired rotor trajectory, said control means for controlling relative movement between said stator and said rotor by selectively energizing said poles in order to achieve said torque. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said rotor poles are positioned on said rotor at geometric vertices of a first regular polyhedron wherein said stator poles are positioned on said stator at geometric vertices of a second regular polyhedron. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein said stator poles number greater than said rotor poles. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein said stator poles comprise stator coils and further comprising: means for determining stator current values for said plurality of said stator poles in order to achieve said torque; means for comparing said stator current values with respective maximum current values corresponding with said stator poles; means for replacing each stator current value with a corresponding maximum current value when said stator current value exceeds said maximum current value; and means for forwarding said stator current values to said plurality of said stator poles. 10. The system of claim 6, further comprising a means associated with said control means for minimizing total energy input to said poles in order to achieve said desired rotor trajectory. 11. The system of claim 6, wherein said rotor poles comprise ferromagnetic material and wherein said stator poles comprise stator coils. 12. The system of claim 6, further comprising an elongated shaft mounted to said rotor. 13. The system of claim 6, further comprising an elongated shaft mounted to said stator. 14. The system of claim 6, wherein said rotor poles comprise ferromagnetic material and wherein said stator poles comprise stator coils, each of said stator coils connected to a corresponding current amplifier, each corresponding current amplifier connected to a digital-to-analog converter, each said digital-to-analog converter interfaced with a decoder which is connected to said control means. 15. The system of claim 11, further comprising a means associated with said control means for minimizing total energy input to said stator poles in order to achieve said desired rotor trajectory. 16. A system for controlling a variable reluctance spherical motor, comprising: a spherical stator having a plurality of stator poles; a spherical rotor surrounded by said stator and having a plurality of rotor poles, said rotor and said stator capable of relative movement about a common center; means for determining a three dimensional orientation of said rotor relative to said stator; means for controlling energization of said poles to achieve a desired rotor trajectory; and means for minimizing total energy input to said poles in order to achieve said desired rotor trajectory; wherein said stator poles comprise stator coils, each of said stator coils connected to a corresponding current amplifier, each corresponding current amplifier connected to a digital-to-analog converter, each said digital-to-analog converter interfaced with a decoder which is connected to said controlling means. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein each of said stator poles comprises a stator coil and further comprising: means for determining stator current values for said plurality of stator poles in order to achieve said torque; means for comparing said stator current values with respective maximum current values corresponding with said stator poles; means for replacing each stator current value with a corresponding maximum current value when said stator current value exceeds said maximum current value; and means for forwarding said stator current values to said plurality of said stator poles. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein said rotor poles are positioned on said rotor at geometric vertices of a first regular polyhedron and wherein said stator poles are positioned on said stator at geometric vertices of a second regular polyhedron. 19. The system of claim 16, further comprising a grid pattern substantially concentric with and movable with said rotor and an image sensor disposed on said stator for viewing said grid pattern and connected to said means for determining, said means for determining for calculating the three dimensional orientation based upon the viewing of said grid pattern. 20. The system of claim 16, further comprising a shaft mounted to said rotor. 21. The system of claim 16, further comprising an elongated shaft mounted to said stator. 22. A method for controlling a variable reluctance spherical rotor having a spherical stator concentric with a spherical rotor, said stator having a plurality of stator poles and said rotor having a plurality of rotor poles, and a control means for controlling relative movement between the stator and the rotor about a common center by selectively energizing said poles, the method comprising the steps of: determining a torque to be applied by said stator upon said rotor to achieve a desired trajectory; energizing the poles to achieve said torque; and minimizing total energy input to said poles in order to achieve said desired rotor trajectory; wherein each of said stator poles comprises a stator coil and further comprising the steps of: determining stator current values for said plurality of said stator poles in order to achieve said torques; comparing said stator current values with respect to maximum current values corresponding with said stator poles; replacing each stator current value with a corresponding maximum current value when said stator current value exceeds maximum current value; and forwarding said stator current values to said plurality of said stator poles. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein each of said stator poles comprises a stator coil and further comprising the step of determining minimal stator current values for said plurality of said stator poles in order to achieve said torque. 24. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of energizing a plurality of the stator poles in order to move the rotor about an axis of rotation. 