A two-way flexible valve to control or interrupt the flow of a pressurized medium. The valve is a polymeric semi-rigid tubing hyperflexed until its material has yielded in an irreversible manner and created a kink. Ulterior flexions of the tubing tend to occur about the preferred axis set by the kink. An acute angle closes the valve by crimping the lumen shut, whereas an obtuse angle opens it in some proportion of the angle. One end of the kinked valve tubing is held on a support and the other end is fastened to a lever hinged on pivot pins. The distance between holding points and the valve kink is several times the diameter of the valve tubing, and the axis of the kink is collinear with that of the hinge, both factors reducing sideload stress in the valve material, increasing its lifespan. An elastic member holds the valve closed and a flexible actuating line acting against the elastic member opens the valve in some proportion of its pull. A three-way valve embodiment is detailed for the control of pneumatic actuators of a walking robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A two-way valve apparatus for controlling the flow of a medium, comprising: (a) a generally flat support made of rigid material, with two pivot brackets mounted on said support with pivot holes oriented so that the axes of said pivot holes are collinear and thereby define a pivotal axis generally parallel to said support, (b) a lever comprising an elongated handle prolongated at approximately right angle by two lever arms, with each of said lever arms terminated by a pivot pin approximately parallel to the longitudinal axis of said handle, with said pivot pins inserted in said pivot holes so that said lever can hinge about said pivotal axis, (c) an elbow tubular fitting fastened to said handle so that the prolongation of the axis of one of its ends intersects said pivotal axis at a right angle, and the axis of its other end is approximately parallel to said pivotal axis, (d) a port tubing made of semi-rigid material coupled to the latter end of said elbow fitting, and long enough that said tubing is free to follow said lever when lever is moved about said pivotal axis, with the other end of said port tubing constituting the first port of said two-way valve, (e) a static tubular fitting mounted on said support through a fitting bracket so that the prolongation of the axis of one end of said static fitting intersects said pivotal axis at a right angle at approximately the same location of the intersection described in (c) above, and the other end of said static fitting constituting the second port of said two-way valve, (g) a generally tubular valve member made of semi-rigid plastic material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene, their fluorinated derivatives, and nylon, in which an irreversible kink has been made by hyperflexion of said valve member, where said kink can restrict the lumen of said valve member as some function of the angle of flexion of said valve member, and where said kink can shut close the lumen when the valve angle is in an extreme acute position, (h) couplings fastening said valve member between said elbow fitting and said static fitting so that the general axis of said kink is approximately collinear with said pivotal axis, and so that said valve flexion angle can be changed by rotation of said lever about said pivotal axis, thereby said valve apparatus provides a continuous medium-tight passage which can throttled at the location of said kink in some proportion of the angle of said lever relative to said support. 2. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a linear elastic member stretched between said handle and a fastening attachment on said support so that said elastic member is urging said lever to bring said valve angle to an extreme acute or extreme obtuse position, thereby creating a normally closed or normally open two-way valve. 3. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising an axial prolongation of one of said pivot pins so that it can be used as a rotational shaft for said valve, thereby providing means for direct actuation of said valve. 4. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 3 further comprising a torsional elastic member acting about said actuating shaft on said lever arm connected to said shaft so that said elastic member is urging said lever to bring said valve angle to an extreme acute or extreme obtuse position, thereby creating a normally closed or normally open two-way valve. 5. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 4 further comprising a flexible line tethered to said handle of said lever so that exerting a linear traction on said line creates a rotational motion of said lever about said pivotal axis, thereby providing the means to actuate said valve remotely. 6. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a flexible line tethered to said handle of said lever so that exerting a linear traction on said line creates a rotational motion of said lever about said pivotal axis, thereby providing the means to actuate said valve remotely. 7. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said support, said pivot brackets, and said fitting bracket are molded as one piece of the same material. 8. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said port tubing, said elbow fitting, said valve member, and said static fitting consist of a same semi-rigid tubing, where said elbow fitting has been formed by heat treatment. 9. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said support, said pivot brackets, and said fitting bracket are stamped out and folded out of a same sheet of metal. 10. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said lever and said elbow fitting are manufactured as one piece of the same material. 11. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said fittings possess couplings selected from the group consisting of barbed, compression and quick-disconnect couplings. 12. A valve apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said lever arms are resilient enough so that said pivot pins can be inserted in said pivot holes by manual flexion of said arms. 13. A method for creating a two-way valve controlling the flow of a medium, comprising the steps of: (a) creating an irreversible kink in a tubing made of a semi-rigid material by hyperflexion of said tubing until it yields and creates a preferential flexion axis in said tubing, (b) fastening said tubing on a lever comprising pivot pins and on a support comprising pivot brackets, with said pivot pins hinged in said pivot brackets defining the pivotal axis of said lever, so that said flexion axis is collinear with said pivotal axis, and so that said fastenings are located at least several tubing diameters away from said kink, thereby the angle of said tubing will control the size of the lumen of said tubing, and thereby the angle of said lever relative to said support will act as a throttle in said two-way valve. 