Systems and methods allow for the accurate determination of the terrestrial position of an autonomous vehicle in real time. A first position estimate of the vehicle 102 is derived from satellites of a global positioning system and/or a pseudolite(s). The pseudolite(s) may be used exclusively when the satellites are not in the view of the vehicle. A second position estimate is derived from an inertial reference unit and/or a vehicle odometer. The first and second position estimates are combined and filtered using novel techniques to derive a more accurate third position estimate of the vehicle's position. Accordingly, accurate autonomous navigation of the vehicle can be effectuated using the third position estimate.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A system for determining an estimate of the position of a vehicle based on pseudoranges derived from a vehicle positioning system and prior position estimates, the system comprising: (a) first means for receiving signals from a plurality of satellites, responsively determining respective pseudoranges from said satellites to the vehicle, and deriving a first position estimate of the vehicle's position as a function of said pseudoranges; (b) second means responsive to said first means for receiving the prior position estimates and responsively determining a vehicle path model using a best fit algorithm; (c) third means responsive to said second means, said third means for extrapolating a second position estimate from said vehicle path model; and (d) fourth means responsive to said third means, said fourth means for setting said first position estimate equal to said second position estimate if said second position estimate is more accurate. 2. A method for determining an estimate of the position of a vehicle based on a vehicle position system and prior position estimates via a best fit algorithm, the method comprising the steps of: (1) receiving signals from a plurality of satellites, responsively determining respective pseudoranges from said satellites to said vehicle, and computing a first position estimate using the vehicle positioning system as a function of said pseudoranges; (2) determining a vehicle path model using the best fit algorithm as a function of the prior position estimates; (3) extrapolating a second position estimate from said vehicle path model; and (4) setting said first position estimate equal to said second position estimate if said second position estimate is more accurate. 