Particles are repelled from the upper face of a wafer in a plasma chamber by inducing positive or negative charges on the substrate without generating a gas plasma above the substrate. The charges are induced in the substrate by bringing a conductive sheet carrying a DC voltage close to the underside of the substrate. The particle repelling effect may be enhanced by inducing alternating positive and negative charges in the substrate. This can be done by switching the polarity of the DC voltage applied to the conductive sheet, or alternatively by moving an actuator to repetitively ground and isolate the substrate from the chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of reducing particle contamination of a face of a substrate in a plasma processing chamber, comprising: alternately inducing a positive and negative charge in said substrate in a manner which does not require the generation of a gas plasma above the substrate, thereby repelling particles from said substrate, and producing a force parallel to said face of said substrate to sweep said particles away from said substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein alternately inducing positive and negative charges in said substrate comprises: bringing said substrate into close proximity to an electrically conductive surface so that said substrate is substantially more strongly capacitively coupled to said surface than to any wall of said chamber, applying a voltage to said conductive surface, and switching polarity of the voltage applied to said conductive surface. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein alternately inducing positive and negative charge in said substrate comprises: bringing said substrate into close proximity to an electrically conductive surface so that said substrate is substantially more strongly capacitively coupled to said surface than to any wall of said chamber, applying a voltage to said conductive surface, and alternately grounding said substrate and leaving said substrate ungrounded. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein grounding said substrate with an electrically grounded actuator configured to participate in moving said substrate within said chamber. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein producing a force parallel to said face of said substrate comprises flowing gas through said chamber at a rate substantially higher than a rate used during plasma processing. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein producing a force parallel to said face of said substrate comprises producing a magnetic field which imparts said force on particles moving perpendicular to said face of said substrate. 7. The method of claim 3 wherein grounding said substrate comprises contacting said substrate with an electrically grounded actuator configured to participate in moving said substrate within said chamber. 8. Apparatus for reducing particle contamination of a face of a substrate in a plasma processing chamber, comprising: means for inducing an alternating negative and positive charge in said substrate and thereby repelling particles from said substrate comprising a conductive surface in close proximity to said substrate, said substrate being substantially more strongly capacitively coupled to said conductive surface than to any wall of said chamber, and means for producing a force parallel to said substrate to sweep said particles away from said substrate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said means for inducing an alternating charge in said substrate further comprises means for applying an alternating voltage to said conductive surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said means for inducing an alternating charge in said substrate further comprises means for applying a voltage to said conductive surface, and means for alternately grounding said substrate and leaving said substrate ungrounded. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for grounding said substrate comprises an electrical ground actuator configured to participate in moving said substrate within said chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said means for producing a force parallel to said face of said substrate flows gas through said chamber at a rate substantially higher than a rate used during plasma processing. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said means for producing a force parallel to said face of said substrate produces a magnetic field which imparts said force on particles moving perpendicular to said face of said substrate. 