A method for transforming the image of a long bone into a system coordinate space, such as robotic system coordinate space, comprises identifying in the image data set directional coordinates representing bone axis and at least one positional coordinate on the bone surface. Corresponding coordinates in the actual bone immobilized in the robotic or other system space are then determined by contacting a probe, such as a probe at the end of a manipulatable arm on a robot, to corresponding locations in the actual bone. The coordinates within the image data set are then registered with the actual coordinates within the immobilized bone to produce a transfer function that can be used to transform the image data set to the coordinate system space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved method for transforming a digital data transfer file comprising a data set representing the image of a long bone to a robotic coordinate system of the type wherein preselected coordinates of the bone image are registered with corresponding coordinates of the actual bone immobilized in the robotic system, wherein the improvement comprises: registering between the robotic coordinate system and the image data set contained in the digital data transfer file (1) directional coordinates representing the bone axis and (2) at least one positional coordinate on the bone surface. 2. An improved method as in claim 1, wherein the directional coordinates represent the medullary canal of the bone and the positional coordinate is on a surface of the bone. 3. An improved method as in claim 1, further comprising registering a plurality of positional coordinates on the surface of the bone. 4. An improved method as in claim 1, wherein the long bone is a femur and the surface is in the region of the proximal calcar. 5. An improved method as in claim 1, wherein the positional coordinate is defined by an implanted marker. 6. A method for registering an image of a long bone with the bone immobilized in a system having a mechanical manipulator having an effector positionable in a coordinate system, wherein the method comprises: translating the effector axially through the medullary canal of the bone to acquire and store axial coordinates; positioning the effector at at least one external surface position on the bone to acquire at least one positional coordinate; and transforming a data set contained in a data transfer file representing an image of the bone to the coordinate system by registering the stored axial and positional coordinates of the bone with corresponding coordinates in the image data set. 7. A method as in claim 6, wherein the effector is centered within the medullary canal when the axial coordinates are acquired. 8. A method as in claim 7, wherein the effector is centered by inflating a centering balloon on the effector at the time each axial coordinate is acquired. 9. A method as in claim 6, wherein the effector is positioned at a plurality of surface positions on the bone. 10. A method as in claim 9, wherein the bone is a femur and the plurality of surface positions are in the outer cortex of the proximal calcar region. 11. A method as in claim 6, wherein the positional coordinate is defined by one or more markers implanted in the bone. 12. A method as in claim 11, wherein the bone is a femur and the marker is implanted in the proximal femur. 13. A method as in claim 6, wherein the transforming step comprises generating a transform function which can transform image data into the coordinate system of the manipulator system. 14. A method as in claim 6, further comprising obtaining the image data set. 15. A method as in claim 4, wherein the image data set is obtained by: providing a raw image data set of the bone; selecting and marking a plurality of coordinates along a centerline through the medullary canal; and generating a surface model representing a region near one end of the bone. 16. A method as in claim 15, wherein the bone is a femur and the surface model represents a surface in the outer cortex in the proximal calcar region. 17. A method for positioning a movable effector relative to a long bone immobilized in an operative space, said method comprising: providing an image data set of the bone which includes axial information and surface information: forming an access hole in the medullary cavity from a proximal end of the bone; immobilizing the bone in the operative space; translating the effector axially through the medullary cavity of the long bone; storing in a system data set axial positional information of the effector at at least two axially spaced-apart locations along the center line of the medullary cavity; positioning the effector against the surface of the bone; storing in the system data set surface positional information of the effector when contacting the surface; comparing the axial and surface information in the image data set with the axial and surface positional information stored in the system data set to generate a transform function; and positioning the effector relative to the bone using the transfer function based on in the image data set. 18. A method as in claim 17, wherein the effector is centered within the medullary canal when the positional information along the access hole is stored. 19. A method as in claim 18, wherein the effector is centered by inflating a centering balloon on the effector at the time each axial coordinate is acquired. 20. A method as in claim 17, wherein the effector is positioned at a plurality of surface positions on the bone. 21. A method as in claim 20, wherein the bone is a femur and the plurality of surface positions are in the outer cortex of the proximal calcar region. 22. A method as in claim 17, wherein the surface positional coordinate is defined by markers implanted in the bone. 23. A method as in claim 22, wherein the bone is a femur and the marker is implanted in the proximal calcar region. 24. A method as in claim 17, further comprising: providing a robotic system comprising (a) a manipulatable arm that carries the effector, (b) a bone fixator which is fixed relative to the manipulator arm and the operative space; and (c) a system controller; wherein the bone is immobilized in the bone fixator. 25. A method as in claim 24, wherein the controller positions the effector by moving the manipulatable arm. 26. A method as in claim 24, wherein the image data set and the system data set are maintained in the system controller. 27. An improved method for performing hip replacement surgery, said method being of the type wherein an image of the femur is used to control a robotic system to machine a cavity in the femoral canal to receive prosthetic implant and wherein an image data set is transformed to a coordinate system of the robotic system by registering preselected coordinates of the image data set with corresponding coordinates of the actual bone immobilized in the robotic system, wherein the improvement comprises: registering between the robotic coordinate system and the image data set (1) directional coordinates representing the bone axis and (2) at least one positional coordinate on the bone surface. 28. An improved method as in claim 27, wherein the directional coordinates represent a line through the medullary canal of the bone and the positional coordinate is on a surface of the bone. 29. An improved method as in claim 27, further comprising registering a plurality of positional coordinates on the surface of the bone. 30. An improved method as in claim 27, wherein the long bone is a femur and the surface is in the region of the proximal calcar. 31. An improved method as in claim 27, wherein the positional coordinate is defined by an implanted marker. 32. An improved robotic system of the type having a manipulatable arm which carries a surgical cutter and a programmable controller which positions the cutter within a robotic coordinate system, wherein an image data set representing the image of a long bone is transformed to the robotic coordinate system, wherein the improvement comprises: a controller program which transforms the image data set to the robotic coordinate system by registering (1) directional coordinates representing the bone axis and (2) at least one positional coordinate on the bone surface. 33. An improved robotic system in claim 32, wherein the directional coordinates represent a line through the medullary canal of the bone and the positional coordinate is on a surface of the bone. 34. An improved robotic system as in claim 32, wherein the controller program registers a plurality of positional coordinates on the surface of the bone. 35. An improved robotic system as in claim 32, wherein the long bone is a femur and the surface is in the region of the proximal calcar. 36. An improved robotic system as in claim 32, wherein the positional coordinate is defined by an implanted marker. 