An apparatus (10) for extruding a profile material to form a profile (11) of substantially constant cross-section onto the peripheral edge (12) of an article (13). The apparatus (10) includes a movable die head (30) for circumferentially traversing the peripheral edge (12) of the article (13). The die head (30) has a profile orifice (31) positioned proximate to the peripheral edge (12) of the article (13), and a supply channel (50) in fluid communication with both the profile orifice (31) and a pressurized source of the profile material (24) for directing the profile material to the profile orifice (31). The apparatus also includes selectively pivotable vane means (60) positioned within the supply channel (50), wherein the vane means (60) is pivotable to variably direct the flow of the profile material to the profile orifice (31 ) as the die head (30) moves. A method for extruding a profile material to form a profile (11) of substantially constant cross-section onto the peripheral edge (12) of an article (13) includes the steps of directing a substantially constant amount of the profile material under pressure through a supply channel (50) and through a profile orifice (31 ) of a die head (30) as the die head (30) is directed to circumferentially traverse the periphery (12) of the article (13); and, variably directing the flow of the profile material to the profile orifice (31) with a selectively pivotable vane (60).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for extruding a profile material to form a profile of substantially constant cross-section onto the peripheral edge of an article, comprising: a movable die head for circumferentially traversing the peripheral edge of the article; said die head having a profile orifice positioned proximate to the peripheral edge of the article, and a supply channel means in fluid communication with both said profile orifice and a pressurized source of the profile material; and, selectively pivotable vane means positioned within said supply channel and proximate to said profile orifice, wherein said vane means is pivotable to variably direct the flow of a substantially constant amount of the profile material to said profile orifice. 2. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said vane means includes first and second independently pivotable vane members. 3. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 2, wherein said first and second vane members each comprise a hub and an apex, and a face portion extending between and connecting said hub and said apex. 4. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 3, wherein each said first and second vane members are separately pivotable via pivot rods carried by each said hub. 5. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 4, further comprising linkage means operatively connected to each of said pivot rods for selectively rotating said pivot rods. 6. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, wherein said linkage means is operatively connected to a powered drive means. 7. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 6, wherein said powered drive means is selectively activatable by a programmable logic control circuit. 8. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 3, wherein said hubs of said first and second vane members are juxtapositioned, and said vane means are positioned in said supply channel such that said apex of said first vane member is distal to said profile orifice and said apex of said second vane member is proximate to said profile orifice. 9. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said die head includes a die plate carrying said profile orifice. 10. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 9, wherein said die plate is removably affixed to said die head with a die plate retaining bar, said die plate retaining bar being removably affixed to said die head. 11. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said profile orifice is generally elongate having at least first and second portions. 12. An apparatus, as set forth in claim 11, wherein said vane means selectively directs a variable amount of the profile material to said first and second portions of said profile orifice respectively. 13. A method for extruding a profile material to form a profile of substantially constant cross-section onto the peripheral edge of an article, comprising the steps of: directing a flow of the profile material under pressure through a supply channel and through a profile orifice of a die head as said die head is directed to circumferentially traverse the periphery of the article; and, variably directing the flow of the profile material to said profile orifice with a selectively pivotable vane means positioned within said supply channel and proximate to said profile orifice, such that a substantially constant amount of the profile material is directed to flow through said profile orifice as said die head is directed to circumferentially traverse the periphery of the article. 14. A method, as set forth in claim 13, wherein said step of variably directing the flow of the profile material with said selectively pivotable vane means includes the step of pivoting at least a first pivotable vane member. 15. A method, as set forth in claim 14, wherein said step of pivoting said first pivotable vane member includes the step of selectively activating a power drive means operatively connected to said vane means. 16. A method, as set forth in claim 15, wherein said step of selectively activating a power drive means includes the step of programming a logic control circuit operatively connected to said power drive means. 17. A method, as set forth in claim 13, wherein the total area of said supply channel remains substantially constant during said step of variably directing the flow of the profile material to said profile orifice. 18. A method, as set forth in claim 17, wherein the flow of the profile material within said supply channel is separated into substantially discrete portions by said step of variably directing the flow of the profile material to said profile orifice. 19. A method, as set forth in claim 18, comprising the further step of maintaining said discrete portions in the flow of profile material with said vane means, substantially to said profile orifice. 20. An apparatus for extruding a profile material to form a profile of substantially constant cross-section onto the peripheral edge of an article, comprising: a movable die head for circumferentially traversing the peripheral edge of the article; said die head having a profile orifice positioned proximate to the peripheral edge of the article, and a supply channel means in fluid communication with both said profile orifice and a pressurized source of the profile material; and, selectively pivotable vane means positioned within said supply channel, wherein said vane means is pivotable to variably direct the flow of the profile material to said profile orifice; said vane means including first and second independently pivotable vane members each said first and second vane members comprising a hub, an apex and a face portion extending between and connecting said hub and said apex; wherein said hubs of said first and second vane members are juxtapositioned, and said vane means are positioned in said supply channel such that said apex of said first vane member is distal to said profile orifice and said apex of said second vane member is proximate to said profile orifice; and wherein said profile orifice is generally elongate having at least first and second portions, such that said vane means selectively directs a variable amount of the profile material to said first and second portions of said profile orifice respectively. 