A pickup truck conversion hidden storage/utility system is incorporated in the bed thereof without altering the bed's external appearance. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close the fender/side panel of the bed. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage/utility system is incorporated into the bed by either an initial fabrication method or a conversion method using an existing bed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for converting a conventional bed of a vehicle or trailer having wheel wells and side panels having an external appearance into a storage/utility bed without altering the external appearance of the side panels, comprising: removing an inner panel section of at least one of the side panels; hinging an outer panel section of the at least one side panel; forming a storage enclosure along at least one side of the bed so as to cover at least one of the wheel wells, whereby raising of the outer panel section exposes the interior of the storage enclosure; and providing a latching means for latching said outer panel section to the bed. 2. The method of claim 7, wherein the removing step is carried out by making a pair of vertical cuts through the at least one side panel and removing any connection to the bed of the at least one side panel along a lower end thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the hinging step is carried out using a hinge extending a full length of the outer panel section. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the latching means is carried out by positioning a plurality of latch mechanisms along the bed and along the outer panel section, and providing the storage enclosure with a latch release mechanism. 5. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing the latching means with a lock. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the latching means is formed to include a release mechanism, and further comprising positioning the release mechanism at a rear portion of the storage enclosure, and connecting the plurality of latch mechanisms to the release mechanism. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of removing an inner panel section, hinging an outer panel section, forming a storage enclosure and providing a latching means are performed on each side of the bed, and additionally including positioning the storage enclosures in the bed such that same have a space of greater than four feet therebetween, and forming the storage enclosures such that the height thereof is less than the height of the bed. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of hinging the side panel section is carried out using a hinge which is hidden from a side view of the bed. 9. The method of claim 1, additionally including preparing and painting the storage enclosure and exposed end surfaces of the outer panel section to correspond to the paint of the bed. 10. The method of claim 1, additionally providing the storage enclosure with internal shelving. 11. A method for converting a bed of a vehicle having at least a floor section, a front panel section, a pair of side panels, and a tail gate into a bed for a vehicle which includes hidden storage without altering the external appearance of the bed, comprising: removing an inner panel section of at least one of the side panels; hinging an outer panel section of the at least one side panel; forming a storage enclosure having an opening facing the at least one side panel along a length of the at least one side panel; and providing latching/lock means for latching/locking the hinged outer panel section of the at least one side panel, whereby raising and lowering of the hinged outer panel section exposes and covers the interior of the storage means. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the hinged outer panel section extends along substantially an entire length of the at least one side panel. 13. The method of claim 11, additionally including making a cut in the outer panel section of the at least one side panel adjacent a tail light section of the bed, such that the outer panel section opens along a length of the bed to the cut adjacent the tail light section. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the outer panel section is hinged horizontally along an upper portion thereof. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the latching/lock means is mounted so as to be not exposed to an external view of the bed. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the hinging of the outer panel section is carried out such that a hinge used therefore is unexposed to an external view of the bed. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the storage enclosure is formed so as to terminate in a spaced relation to the tail gate of the bed. 18. The method of claim 11, additionally including providing control means for controlling the latching/lock means. 19. The method of claim 11, additionally including preparing and painting the storage enclosure and exposed surfaces of the outer panel section to correspond to the paint of the bed. 20. A method for converting a conventional vehicle bed having side panels to a hidden storage/utility bed without altering the external appearance of the bed, comprising: replacing at least one side panel with a side panel having a horizontally hinged section extending along substantially a length of the side panel, providing a storage box in the bed adjacent the hinged side panel section, and providing at least latching means for latching the at least one side panel section to the bed. 