A sterile drape, system, and method for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system are provided. In one embodiment, a sterile drape includes an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure, and an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving the non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, such as a manipulator. The drape further includes an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical drape comprising: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system; an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape; and an instrument sterile adaptor for engaging a surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system, the sterile adaptor configured to transfer signals between the surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system. 2. The drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface includes a peel-and-stick patch. 3. The drape of claim 1, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 4. The drape of claim 1, wherein the cavity receives the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system selected from the group consisting of a monitor, a manipulator arm, and an endoscope camera manipulator arm. 5. The drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface and the interior surface of the drape is couplable to another drape portion. 6. The drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a window for positioning adjacent to a monitor screen, the window having a static charge. 7. The drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a venting portion. 8. The drape of claim 1, wherein the open end of the cavity includes a purse string and a tear strip. 9. The drape of claim 1, wherein the integral cuff includes a visual marker. 10. The drape of claim 1, further comprising a fastener coupled to the exterior surface for securing a portion of the drape to the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system to reduce the volume of the cavity formed by the drape, wherein the fastener includes malleable strips and straps. 11. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system; and a drape over the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system to shield the sterile field from the non-sterile portion, the drape including: an exterior surface adjacent to the sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape; and an instrument sterile adaptor for engaging a surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system, the sterile adaptor configured to transfer signals between the surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system is selected from the group consisting of a monitor, a manipulator arm, and an endoscope camera manipulator arm. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the drape further comprises a plurality of fasteners on the exterior surface for securing the drape to the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces are comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a window for positioning adjacent to a monitor screen, the window having a static charge. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the exterior and interior surfaces include a venting portion. 17. A method of draping a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: providing a drape including: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving a non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; an integral cuff including a permanently turned-up fold of the exterior and interior surfaces at an open end of the cavity and a marker on the permanently turned-up fold designating a sterile side and a non-sterile side of the drape; and an instrument sterile adaptor configured to transfer signals between a surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; positioning the open end of the cavity at the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; holding the integral cuff to unfold the drape over the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system; and engaging the instrument sterile adaptor with the surgical tool and the non-sterile portion of the robotic surgical system. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising coupling an instrument sterile adaptor of the drape to a manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising positioning a window and a venting portion of the drape proximate a monitor of the robotic surgical system. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising unfolding the drape such that the window is not creased or folded. 21. The method of claim 19, further comprising positioning the window adjacent to a monitor screen via static charge. 22. The method of claim 17, further comprising securing the drape to the portion of the robotic surgical system using a fastener of the drape. 