A semiconductor cassette and transfer system for facilitating the direct loading and unloading of wafers from different sides of a cassette by a first robot handling device moveable along a first extension axis and second robot handling device moveable along a second extension axis intersecting said first extension axis at an acute angle, and at a predetermined point concurrent with the center of the cassette as it is disposed in a fixed position within a loadlock chamber of a wafer processing apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for storing and transferring a planar substrate having a primary plane and a primary width, the system comprising: (a) a substrate storage; (b) a first substrate transfer means, having a maximum first width W.sub.1 which is less than the primary width of the substrate and means for constraining movement of the substrate, for transferring the substrate along a first transfer axis associated with the substrate storage, to or from the substrate storage; (c) a second substrate transfer means, having a maximum second width W.sub.2 which is less than the primary width of the substrate, for transferring the substrate along a second transfer axis non-parallel to the first transfer axis and associated with the substrate storage, to or from the substrate storage; and (d) first and second substrate edge supports associated with the substrate storage and for supporting the substrate at its edges, the first and second substrate edge supports being arranged to permit transfer of the substrate to or from the substrate storage by both the first and second substrate transfer means in a rectilinear manner without the substrate storage being rotated about an axis perpendicular to the primary plane of the substrate. 2. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein the first and second substrate transfer means each include a blade having a substantially planar characteristic. 3. A system as recited in claim 2, wherein both the first and second substrate edge supports have respective proximal and respect to the first transfer means; and wherein the first and second edge supports are disposed in positions relative to each other to permit passage of both the first and second transfer blades between both the proximal edges and both the distal edges. 4. A system as recited in claim 3, wherein each substrate support defines an interior angle between lines drawn from its proximal and distal edges to and terminating at an intersection between the first and second transfer axes, such that the interior angle is no greater than an angle S, with ##EQU2## where .theta. is the angle of intersection between the first and second transfer axes and r is a radius of the substrate being transferred. 5. A system as recited in claim 4, wherein the first and second substrate transfer means are operable to transfer substrates in respective transfer planes which are parallel or coplanar. 6. A system as recited in claim 5, wherein the transfer planes are horizontal and parallel to the primary plane of the substrate stored in the cassette. 7. A system as recited in claim 6, wherein said substrate storage is disposed within a loadlock chamber. 8. A system as recited in claim 7, wherein said first substrate transfer means is disposed in an ambient environment and said second substrate transfer means is disposed within a low pressure environment, passage between said environments being facilitated by said loadlock chamber. 9. A system as recited in claim 8, wherein said low pressure environment is maintained within a walled chamber having connected about its periphery at least one said loadlock chamber and a plurality of substrate processing chambers. 10. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein said first and second substrate edge supports include arcuate shelves for supporting the respective edge portions of said substrates. 11. A system as recited in claim 10, wherein said first and second substrate edge supports further include a plurality of stepped formations. 12. A system as recited in claim 11, wherein said means for constraining movement of the substrate includes stepped formations. 13. A system as recited in claim 4, comprising at least two of the substrate storages arranged such that planes, perpendicular to the primary plane of the substrate received in each substrate storage and passing through their respective associated second transfer axes, intersect at an axis of rotation about which the second transfer means rotates during transfer of substrates to and from the substrate storages. 14. A system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a primary substrate storage, arranged to permit transfer of substrates between the primary substrate storage and the substrate storage. 15. A system as recited in claim 14, wherein the first substrate transfer means is operable to move along a path, transverse to the first transfer axis, between the primary substrate storage device and the substrate storage. 16. A system as recited in claim 15, further comprising a substrate storage raising and lowering mechanism for raising and lowering the substrate storage in a direction substantially perpendicular to the primary plane of the substrate stored in the substrate storage. 17. A system as recited in claim 16, wherein the first and second substrate transfer means each include a substrate transfer blade of known maximum width W.sub.1 and W.sub.2, respectively. 18. A system as recited in claim 17, wherein both the first and second substrate edge supports have respective proximal and distal edges with respect to the first transfer means; and wherein the first and second edge supports are disposed in positions relative to each other to permit passage of both the first and second transfer blades between both the proximal edges and both the distal edges. 19. A system as recited in claim 18, wherein each substrate support defines an interior angle between lines drawn from its proximal and distal edges to and terminating at an intersection between the first and second transfer axes, such that the interior angle is no greater than an angle S, with ##EQU3## where .theta. is the angle of intersection between the first and second transfer axes and r is a radius of the substrate being transferred. 20. A substrate storage which may be loaded or unloaded by a first transfer blade having a maximum first width W.sub.1 and means for constraining movement of a substrate, and a second transfer blade having a maximum second width W.sub.2, the substrate storage comprising: (a) a first substrate edge support for supporting a first edge of the substrate, the substrate having a major dimension greater than either W.sub.1 or W.sub.2 ; (b) a second substrate edge support for supporting a second edge of the substrate and disposed relative to the first substrate edge support to define first and second loading ports, through which both first and second transfer blades can pass in a rectilinear manner along first and second axes respectively, to load the substrate into or unload the substrate from the substrate storage, the second axis intersecting the first axis at an intersection point at an acute angle .theta.; whereby the substrate storage may be accessed by first and second transfer blades without rotating the substrate storage. 21. A substrate storage as recited in claim 20, wherein the first and second substrate edge supports each include a proximal and a distal edge with respect to a loading direction along which the substrate is loaded into the substrate storage; and wherein the first loading port is defined between the proximal edges of the first and the second substrate edge supports respectively and the second loading port is defined between the distal edges of the first and the second substrate edge supports respectively. 22. A substrate storage as recited in claim 21, wherein each substrate edge support is configured to define as interior angle, between lines drawn from its proximal and distal edges to the intersection point, no greater than an angle S, with ##EQU4## where r is the maximum distance from the intersection point to the proximal or distal edge of the substrate edge support. 23. A substrate storage as recited in claim 22, wherein the substrate is circular and r is a radius of the substrate, and wherein said first and second substrate edge supports define arcuate supports for receiving the respective edges of the substrate. 24. A substrate storage as recited in claim 23, wherein first and second edge supports include a stepped formation. 