The system is for assisting a surgeon in positioning an article relative to a target position. The system includes a computer for determining a surgical plan, sensors for sensing execution of the surgical plan by the surgeon, an advisor for advising the surgeon based upon comparison of the surgical plan and its execution and, selecting of different types of advise to give the surgeon. The system can also have an input for changing the surgical plan in the computer during surgery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assisting a surgeon in positioning an article relative to a target position, the system comprising: means for determining a surgical plan based upon input patient information; means for sensing surgical execution of the surgical plan by the surgeon; means for advising the surgeon based upon comparison of the surgical plan and the sensed surgical execution; and means for automatically selecting different types of advice to give the surgeon based upon the surgical plan and the sensed surgical execution. 2. A system as in claim 1 wherein the means for sensing includes means for sensing in different modes. 3. A system as in claim 2 further comprising means for automatically selecting different sensing modes based upon sensed surgical execution of the surgical plan. 4. A system as in claim 3 wherein the means for sensing includes a first optical position sensor system and a redundant second sensor system. 5. A system as in claim 3 wherein the means for advising includes a visual advisor and an audio advisor. 6. A system as in claim 3 wherein the means for automatically selecting includes a computer. 7. A system for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the system comprising: means for determining a surgical plan based upon input patient information; means for sensing surgical execution of the surgical plan by the surgeon; means for advising the surgeon of the surgical plan and the sensed surgical execution during the surgery, the means for advising comprising a computer; and means for inputting a change in the surgical plan into the computer during surgery and determining a new surgical plan based, at least partially, upon previously sensed surgical execution of the surgical plan. 8. A system as in claim 7 wherein the means for inputting includes, upon the surgeon moving a surgical instrument to a new position, the means for sensing being adapted to sense the new position and communicate the new position to the means for determining. 9. A system as in claim 7 wherein the means for inputting includes a voice responsive input system. 10. A system as in claim 7 wherein the means for advising includes means for physically advising the surgeon by automatic motion influence of a surgical instrument connected to the computer. 11. A system as in claim 10 wherein the means for physically advising the surgeon includes means for automatically providing a resistance force to motion of the surgical instrument in at least one degree-of-freedom. 12. A system as in claim 10 wherein the means for physically advising the surgeon includes means for automatically moving the surgical instrument. 13. A system for assisting a surgeon during surgery, the system comprising: means for determining a patient specific surgical plan based upon input patient information; means for sensing execution of the surgical plan by the surgeon; means for advising the surgeon of the surgical plan and the sensed execution during the surgery, the means for advising comprising a computer and means for physically advising the surgeon by automatic motion influence of a surgical instrument connected to the computer; and means for inputting a change of the surgical plan into the computer during surgery and determining a new surgical plan based, at least partially, upon previously sensed execution of the surgical plan. 