The present invention is a joint assembly for allowing relative rotational movement of a camera relative to a stationary base structure. The assembly has a first flexible member which allows the camera to pan the surrounding are and a second flexible member which allows the camera to tilt. Each flexible member has a first surface facing a first direction and second surface facing a second opposite direction. One end each flexible member is folded over onto itself so that a portion of the second surface faces the first direction. The flexible members are constructed in an essentially radial shape to define a radial path. When an end of a flexible member moves along the arcuate path the member rolls over itself. That is, the portion of the flexible member that is rolled over, has its second surface facing the first direction instead of the second direction. The flexible member is preferably constructed with a plurality of electrical lines or wires, wherein all the wires move in an orderly pattern without entanglement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A joint assembly, comprising: a first structure; a first flexible member having a plurality of transmitting elements that can carry signals, said first flexible member having a predefined shape defining a predefined path, a first surface facing a first direction and a second surface facing a second opposite direction, said first flexible member having a first end operatively connected to said first structure and a second end adapted to move about a first axis in approximately said predefined path such that said first surface of a portion of said first flexible member faces said second direction; a second flexible member having a plurality of transmitting elements that can carry said signals, said second flexible member having a predefined shape defining a predefined path, a first surface facing a third direction and a second surface facing a fourth opposite direction, said second flexible member having a first end operatively connected to said second end of said first flexible member and a second end adapted to move about a second axis in approximately said predefined path such that said first surface of a portion of said second flexible member faces said fourth opposite direction; and, a second structure operatively connected to said second end of said second flexible member and adapted to rotate about the first axis of said first flexible member and the second axis of said second flexible member. 2. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the first axis is essentially perpendicular to the second axis. 3. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said predefined shapes of said first and second flexible members is a circle defining a circular path. 4. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible members include a plurality of conductive wires embedded in a sheet of flexible dielectric material. 5. The assembly as recited in claim 4, wherein said flexible members each have three sheets of flexible dielectric material which have conductive wires embedded therein. 6. The assembly as recited in claim 4, further comprising an electrical connector block which is attached to said second end of said first flexible member and said first end of said second flexible member, and electrically couples said wires of said flexible members. 7. A joint assembly, comprising: a first structure; a first flexible member having a plurality of wires embedded into a sheet of flexible dielectric material, said first flexible member having a circular shape defining a circular path, a first surface facing a first direction and a second surface facing a second opposite direction, said first flexible member having a first end operatively connected to said first structure and a second end adapted to move about a first axis in approximately said circular path such that said first surface of a portion of said first flexible member faces said second opposite direction; a second flexible member having a plurality of wires embedded into a sheet of flexible dielectric material, said second flexible member having a circular shape defining a circular path, a third surface facing a first direction and a fourth surface facing a second opposite direction, said second flexible member having a first end operatively connected to said second end of said first flexible member and a second end adapted to move about a second axis in approximately said circular path such that said first surface of a portion of said second flexible member faces said fourth opposite direction, the second axis being essentially perpendicular to the first axis; and, a second structure operatively connected to said second end of said second flexible member and adapted to rotate about the first axis of said first flexible member and the second axis of said second flexible member. 8. The assembly as recited in claim 7, wherein said flexible members each have three sheets of flexible dielectric material which have conductive wires embedded therein. 9. The assembly as recited in claim 8, further comprising an electrical connector block which is attached to said second end of said first flexible member and said first end of said second flexible member, and electrically couples said wires of said flexible members. 