A hydraulic press flow viscometer is provided for spray testing viscous materials for high pressure applications using a relatively small sample size. A hydraulic press forces the sample from its container to a spray assembly. The spray testing system is capable of accurately simulating robotic applications in assembly plants by controlling material temperature, material pressure and robot speed. A method is also provided for performing high pressure spray tests on material samples using the hydraulic spray testing system.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for spray testing a material sample with a hydraulic press flow viscometer that extrudes high viscosity materials at high pressures, said system comprising: a container for holding a material sample, said container having an outlet through which said material sample may be discharged; hydraulic press means, adapted to be coupled with said container, for compressing the material sample within the container and expelling the sample from the container through said outlet; means for regulating the temperature and pressure of the sample within the container; and a spray assembly adapted to be coupled with said container outlet for directing the expelled sample material in a spray action at a target so that spray delivery rate, spray pattern width and/or sag characteristics of the sample material may be measured. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the target is a material recovery cup. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the target is a test panel coupled to a slide tray. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising means for controlling the movement of the slide tray. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said means for controlling comprises means for coordinating the movement of the slide tray with the spray action of said spray assembly. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for regulating temperature comprises a jacket surrounding said container to define a fluid circulation space between said jacket and said container. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for regulating temperature comprises means for circulating a fluid to affect the temperature of the material within said container. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for regulating the temperature of the expelled sample. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said means for regulating the temperature of the expelled sample comprises a jacketed flow line. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for filling said container with a material sample. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said means for filling comprises a filling tube. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the spray action is a fan pattern. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the spray action is a bead pattern. 14. A method of spray testing a material sample using a hydraulic press flow viscometer that extrudes high viscosity materials at high pressures in a hydraulic spray testing system, said method comprising the steps of: providing a sample of the material in a container having a lid; regulating the temperature and pressure of the material sample at desired levels; forcing the lid of the sample storage container downwardly into the container; and spraying the sample onto a test surface so that spray pattern width and/or sag characteristics of the material sample may be measured. 15. The method of claim 14, said method further comprising the step of measuring the spray pattern width of the sample on the test surface. 16. A method of spray testing a material sample using a hydraulic spray testing system, wherein the amount of material sample used during spray testing is minimized, said method comprising the steps of: providing a sample of the material in a sample storage container having a lid; regulating the temperature and pressure of the material sample at desired levels; forcing the lid of the sample storage container downwardly into the container using hydraulic press; and spraying the sample into a material recovery cup so that spray delivery rate into the material recovery cup may be measured. 17. The method of claim 16, said method further comprising the step of determining the spray delivery rate by dividing the mass of the recovered material by the delivery time. 18. A method of spray testing a material sample using a hydraulic press flow viscometer that extrudes high viscosity materials at high pressures in a hydraulic spray testing system, said method comprising the steps of: providing a sample of the material in a container; pumping the material sample out of the container and into a spray valve assembly at a preselected pressure; and spraying the material sample onto a moving test panel to simulate a robotic application so that spray pattern width and/or sag characteristics of the material sample may be measured. 