A tool holder for robotic curing or welding torches includes a housing having a facing part, a stop plate which is at least partially disposed within the housing and has a home position in which the stop plate is disposed proximate the housing facing part. A tool connection coupled to the stop plate is provided so that movement of the tool connection causes movement of the stop plate. A piston element is axially movably mounted in the housing and biased toward the stop plate. The piston element is disposed to be contacted by the stop plate and selectively slid axially in response to movement of either the tool connection or the stop plate. A detector sensor device including a trigger is disposed on the housing to be triggered by axial movement of the piston element. A plurality of positioning elements disposed between the stop plate and the housing facing part are cooperatively configured with at least one of the stop plate and the housing facing part so that in the home position only three of the positioning elements contact both the stop plate and the housing facing part and position the stop plate relative to the housing facing part to form three home positioning element. At least one additional positioning element is adapted to position the stop plate in response to either the tool connection or the stop plate being tilted.
Claims We claim: 1. A tool holder for robotic cutting or welding torches, comprising: a housing having a facing part thereof; a stop plate at least partially disposed within said housing and having a home position in which said stop plate is disposed proximate said housing facing part; a tool connection coupled to said stop plate so that movement of said tool connection causes movement of said stop plate; a piston element axially movably mounted in said housing, said piston element biased toward said stop plate, said piston element disposed to be contacted by said stop plate and selectively slid axially in response to movement of either of said tool connection and said stop plate; a detector sensor device including a trigger, said trigger disposed on said housing to be triggered by axial movement of said piston element; and a plurality of positioning elements mounted on at least one of said stop plate and said housing facing part, said positioning elements being positioned in recesses in at least one of said stop plate and said housing facing part, three of said positioning elements being located in recesses of a first depth and at least one additional positioning element being located in a recess of greater depth than said first depth so that in said home position only three of said positioning elements contact and position said stop plate relative to said housing facing part and form three home positioning elements, at least one additional positioning element in addition to said home positioning elements being adapted to position said stop plate in response to either of said tool connection and said stop plate being tilted. 2. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said positioning elements are disposed so that when said stop part is in said home position and supported by the three home positioning elements, said three home positioning elements are arranged in the corners of an isosceles triangle. 3. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein the number of said positioning elements is a multiple of three. 4. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said positioning elements are symmetrically arranged in an arc. 5. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said positioning elements are in the form of at least half-spherical elements with corresponding seats. 6. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said positioning elements are spheres and affixed to said housing within a retainer with corresponding seats in said stop plate and said three home positioning elements in the home position of said stop plate have a shallower depth than all the other seats. 7. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said piston element and said stop plate are connected together so as to turn together. 8. The tool holder of claim 1, further comprising at least one alignment pin on said stop plate which is received into a matching bored hole in said piston element. 9. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said piston element has an outside radial collar to activate said trigger of said detector sensor device when said piston element is deflected. 10. The tool holder of claim 9, wherein said collar only extends over an angle of about 45.degree. along the perimeter of the piston element. 11. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said stop plate has a release lever, said tool connection is fastened to said release lever on said stop plate with an annular spring tension element, which annular spring tension element has a conical face configured to fit into the corresponding face of said tool connection and is tightened in a pressure fitting with a screw. 12. The tool holder of claim 1, wherein said stop plate has a release lever, said tool connection is fastened to said release lever on said stop plate with a clamp adaptor. 13. The tool holder of claim 12, wherein said tool connection has slots in equal distances on its circumference and said clamp adapter has at least one alignment pin adapted to fit into any one of said tool connection slots. 14. A tool holder for robotic cutting or welding torches, comprising: a housing having a facing part thereof; a stop plate at least partially disposed within said housing and having a home position in which said stop plate is disposed proximate said housing facing part; a tool connection coupled to said stop plate so that movement of said tool connection causes movement of said stop plate; a piston element axially movably mounted in said housing, said piston element biased toward said stop plate, and said piston element disposed to be contacted by said stop plate and selectively slid axially in response to movement of either of said tool connection and said stop plate; a detector sensor device including a trigger, said trigger disposed on said housing to be triggered by axial movement of said piston element; and a plurality of positioning elements disposed between said stop plate and said housing facing part, said positioning elements being cooperatively configured with at least one of said stop plate and said housing facing part so that in said home position only three of said positioning elements contact both of said stop plate and said housing facing part and position said stop plate relative to said housing facing, and at least one addition positioning element adapted to position said stop plate in response to either of said tool connection and said stop plate being tilted. 15. A tool holder for robotic cutting or welding torches, comprising: a housing having a facing part thereof; a stop plate at least partially disposed within said housing and having a home position in which said stop plate is disposed proximate said housing facing part; a tool connection coupled to said stop plate so that movement of said tool connection causes movement of said stop plate; a piston element axially movably mounted in said housing, said piston element biased toward said stop plate, and said piston element disposed to be contacted by said stop plate and selectively slid axially in response to movement of either of said tool connection and said stop plate; a detector sensor device including a trigger, said trigger disposed on said housing to be triggered by axial movement of said piston element; and a plurality of positioning elements disposed between said stop plate and said housing facing part, three of said plurality of positioning elements being centered in a first common plane, at least one additional positioning element being centered outside of said first common plane, whereby in said home position only three of said positioning elements contact and position said stop plate relative to said housing facing part, and whereby said at least one additional positioning element is adapted to position said stop plate in response to either of said tool connection and said stop plate being tilted. 16. The tool holder of claim 15, wherein all additional positioning elements are centered in a second common plane. 17. The tool holder of claim 16, wherein said first common plane and said second common plane are essentially parallel to each other. 18. The tool holder of claim 17, wherein said positioning elements are located in recesses in at least one of said stop plate and said housing facing part. 19. The tool holder of claim 18, wherein said three positioning elements centered in said first common plane are located in recesses of a first depth and said additional positioning elements are located in recesses of a greater depth. 