A new method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically servoed camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for constructing a fixture for holding a part in place wherein the fixture is provided with a framework and a part locating detail extending from the framework comprising the steps of: automatically moving the part locating detail into a desired position relative to the framework with a suitable robot; holding the moved part locating detail in place with the robot; and locking the part locating detail in the held position relative to the framework with an automatic locking device to form the fixture. 2. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 and further including the step of verifying that the part locating detail is in the desired position relative to the framework after the locking step. 3. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said moving step moves the part locating detail in at least four degrees of freedom movements. 4. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said locking step includes the step of welding with the automatic locking device. 5. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 2 wherein said moving step moves the part locating detail in at least four degrees of freedom movements. 6. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 5 wherein said locking step includes the step of welding with the automatic locking device. 7. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said verifying step includes the step of providing the part locating detail with targets and the step of sensing the position of the targets relative to a base. 8. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said automatic moving step includes the step of referencing a data base of a computer to determine the desired position of the part locating detail and the step of directing the movements of the robot by the computer after determining the desired position of the part locating detail. 9. A system for constructing a fixture for holding a part in place wherein the fixture is provided with a framework and a part locating detail extending from the framework comprising: a robot means for moving the part locating detail into the desired position relative to the framework and then for holding the moved part locating detail in place; and an automatic locking means for locking the part locating detail in the held position relative to the framework to form the fixture. 10. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 and further including a verifying means for verifying that the part locating detail is in the desired position relative to the framework after locking by said locking means. 11. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 wherein said robot means moves the part locating detail in at least four degrees of freedom movements. 12. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 wherein said locking means includes a welding device. 13. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 wherein said moving step moves the part locating detail in at least four degrees of freedom movements. 14. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 13 wherein said locking means includes a welding device. 15. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 wherein said verifying means includes targets located on the part locating detail and a target sensing means for sensing the position of the targets relative to a base. 16. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 9 wherein said robot means includes a computer having a data base for determining the desired position of the part locating detail and for directing the movements of the robot means after determining the desired position of the part locating detail. 17. A method for constructing a fixture for holding a part in place wherein the fixture is provided with a framework and a plurality of independently movable part locating details extending from the framework, said method comprising the steps of: automatically and independently moving at least one of the part locating details into a desired position relative to the framework with a suitable moving means; holding the moved part locating detail in place with the moving means; and locking the locating detail in the held position relative to the framework to form the fixture. 18. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 17 and further including the step of verifying that the part locating detail is in the desired position relative to the framework after the locking step. 19. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 18 wherein said verifying step includes the step of providing the part locating detail with a target and the step of sensing the position of the target relative to a base. 20. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 17 wherein said automatic moving step includes the step of referencing a data base of a computer to determine the respective desired position of the part locating detail and the step of directing the movements of the moving means by the computer after determining the desired position of the part locating detail. 21. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 17 wherein said locking step includes the step of welding the part locating detail. 22. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 17 and further including the steps of: automatically and independently moving a second part locating detail into a desired second position relative to the framework with a suitable moving means; holding the moved second part locating detail in place with the moving means; and locking the second part locating detail in the held position relative to the framework to form the fixture. 23. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 22 and further including the step of verifying that the second part locating detail is in the second desired position relative to the framework after the locking step. 24. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 23 wherein said verifying step includes the step of providing the second part locating detail with a second target and the step of sensing the position of the second target relative to a base. 25. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 21 wherein said automatic moving step includes the step of referencing a data base of a computer to determine the desired second position of the second part locating detail and the step of directing the movements of the moving means by the computer after determining the desired second position of the second part locating detail. 26. A system for constructing a fixture for holding a part in place wherein the fixture is provided with a framework and a plurality of independently movable part locating details extending from the framework comprising: a moving means for automatically and independently moving at least one of the part locating details into a desired position relative to the framework and then for holding the at least one moved part locating detail in place; and an automatic locking means for locking the at least one part locating detail in the held position relative to the framework. 27. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 26 and further including a verifying means for verifying that the at least one part locating detail is in the desired position relative to the framework after locking by said locking means. 28. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 21 wherein said verifying means includes a target located on the at least one part locating detail and a target sensing means for sensing the position of the target relative to a base. 29. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 26 wherein said moving means includes a computer having a data base for determining the desired position of the at least one part locating detail and for directing the movements of the moving means after determining the desired position of the at least one part locating detail. 30. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 26 wherein said locking means includes a welding device. 31. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 26 wherein said moving means further automatically and independently moves a second part locating detail into a desired second position relative to the framework and then holds the second moved part locating detail in place; and said automatic locking means further locks the second part locating detail in the held second position relative to the framework. 32. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein said verifying means further verifies that the second part locating detail is in the second desired position relative to the framework after locking by said locking means. 33. A system for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein said verifying means includes a second target located on the second part locating detail and the target sensing means senses the position of the second target relative to the base. 34. A method for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 31 wherein said computer of said moving means further has a data base for determining the desired second position of the second part locating detail and further directs the movements of the moving means after determining the desired second position of the second part locating detail. 