A semiconductor wafer high purity cleaning apparatus for cleaning large semiconductor wafers of 200 mm in diameter and is intended for circuitry in small geometric structures of 0.3 Microns or less. The apparatus includes successively arranged wafer loading, washing, drying and unloading stations, each having an individual closable enclosure. Also included in the apparatus is a device for storing a number of wafers in a vertical plane within the enclosures of the loading and unloading stations, a device for transporting a sequence of individual wafers, a device for rotating the wafers and a high pressure jet for simultaneously cleaning opposite surfaces of the wafers.
Claims I claim: 1. A semiconductor wafer high purity cleaning apparatus comprising successively arranged wafer loading, cleaning, drying and unloading modules each having an individual closable enclosure to help prevent contamination of wafers located within each enclosure when it is closed; means for storing a plurality of wafers in a vertical plane within the closed enclosures of said loading and unloading modules; means for transporting a sequence of individual wafers between the enclosures of said loading module, cleaning module, drying module and unloading module while continually maintaining each wafer in a vertical plane; means for rotating the wafer in a vertical plane while it is located within the closed enclosure of said cleaning module; and high pressure jet means for simultaneously cleaning opposite surfaces of the wafer with streams of high pressure deionized water while the wafer is rotating. 2. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 1 also comprising ultrasonic spray nozzles above said rotating wafer to supply ultrasonic pulses of deionized water to rinse away any particulate lifted by said high pressure streams of deionized water. 3. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 1 also comprising means for moving said jet means to cause said high pressure water streams to traverse the entire opposite surfaces of said rotating wafer. 4. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 1 wherein said transporting means comprises a first robotics means for transporting said individual wafers between the enclosures of said loading module, cleaning module and drying module, and a second robotics means for transporting said individual wafers between the enclosures of said drying module and said unloading module. 5. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 1 also comprising means for pre-rinsing the wafers stored within the enclosures of said loading module to help reduce contamination of the wafers by their wet condition during transportation to the cleaning module. 6. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 5 wherein said wafer storing means comprises a cassette, and said loading module also comprises means for tilting said cassette in a vertical plane to help prevent residual water from remaining in said cassette. 7. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 1 also comprising means for rotating said wafer at high speed in a vertical plane while it is enclosed within the enclosure of said drying module, and means for exhausting water emanating from said rotating drying wafer, said water exhausting means at least partially surrounding said rotating wafer. 8. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 7 wherein said enclosure of said drying module comprises two cylindrical shroud portions axially movable relative to one another to open and close said enclosure. 9. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 8 wherein said shroud portions also comprise said water exhausting means. 10. The semiconductor wafer cleaning apparatus of claim 7 also comprising means for introducing a blanket of ionized Nitrogen gas within the enclosure of said drying module while said wafer is rotating therein. 11. The method of cleaning semiconductor wafers to near absolute purity comprising the steps of: storing and rinsing a plurality of wafers in spaced relation alongside one another in a vertical plane within a loading enclosure; transporting a sequence of individual wafers from the loading enclosure to a separate cleaning enclosure while the wafer is still wet and maintained in a vertical plane; rotating the wafer in a vertical plane within the cleaning enclosure; and simultaneously washing and rinsing opposite surfaces of the rotating wafer by a combination of high pressure streams and ultrasonic spray pulses of deionized water. 12. The semiconductor wafer cleaning method of claim 11 comprising the additional steps of transporting the cleaned wafer from the cleaning enclosure to a separate drying enclosure while the wafer is still wet and maintained in a vertical plane, supplying a nitrogen gas blanket to the drying enclosure, rotating the wafer at high speed in a vertical plane within the enclosure, and peripherally exhausting water emanating from the rotating wafer from the drying enclosure. 