A pharmaceutical distribution container is provided having a sleeve and a tray. The tray has four walls, also known as sidewall portions, each preferably of a trapezoidal configuration. At least a portion of the thickness of each of the opposed first and third sidewall portions is greater than the thickness of each of the opposed second and fourth sidewall portions. The sleeve has a top surface, a bottom surface and two end surfaces, each preferably of a rectangular configuration. A pharmaceutical retaining means is provided, with this component secured between opposing portions of the sidewall of the tray in respective recessed portions. Additionally, the pharmaceutical retaining means is formed having a rod with two end caps, one of which is preferably fixed while the other is preferably removable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pharmaceutical distribution container comprising, a tray, said tray comprising a base, sidewall, and means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray, said sidewall comprising a first sidewall portion, a second sidewall portion, a third sidewall portion, and a fourth sidewall portion, each said first, second, third, and fourth sidewall portions being of a trapezoidal shape, each of the first, second, third, and fourth sidewall portions having a top edge and a bottom edge with the distance between said first sidewall portion top edge and said third sidewall portion top edge being greater than the distance between said first sidewall portion bottom edge and said third sidewall portion bottom edge, said means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray comprising a rod, said rod secured between said first sidewall portion and said third sidewall portion, and a sleeve, said sleeve comprising a top surface, a bottom surface, and two end faces, said sleeve encasing said tray. 2. The container according to claim 1 wherein said means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray comprises at least one packet containing a pharmaceutical. 3. The container according to claim 1 wherein said first sidewall portion and said third sidewall portion each have a recessed portion formed therein, said rod having a first and a second end, said first end resting in said first sidewall portion recessed portion and said second end resting in said third sidewall portion recessed portion. 4. The container according to claim 1 wherein said first and third sidewall portions have the same dimensions, and said second and fourth sidewall portions have the same dimensions. 5. The container according to claim 1 wherein each of said first and third sidewall portions is thicker than each of said second and fourth sidewall portions. 6. The container according to claim 1 wherein said packet has an aperture formed therein through which aperture said rod passes. 7. The container according to claim 1 wherein each of the first, second, third, and fourth sidewall portions have a top edge and a bottom edge with the distance between said second sidewall portion top edge and said fourth sidewall portion top edge being greater than the distance between said second sidewall portion bottom edge and said fourth sidewall portion bottom edge. 8. The container according to claim 1 wherein said end faces of said sleeve have the same dimensions. 9. The container according to claim 1 wherein said top surface and said bottom surface of said sleeve are of a rectangular configuration and are parallel to one another. 10. The container according to claim 1 wherein said end faces of said sleeve each have a top edge and a bottom edge with the distance between the top edge of each of said end faces being greater than the distance between the bottom edge of each of said end faces. 11. A pharmaceutical distribution container comprising, a tray, said tray comprising a base, sidewall, and means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray, said means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray comprising a rod, said sidewall comprising a first sidewall portion, a second sidewall portion, a third sidewall portion, and a fourth sidewall portion, said means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray comprising at least one packet containing a pharmaceutical, said packet having an aperture formed therein through which aperture said rod passes, said rod secured between said first sidewall portion and said third sidewall portion, said first sidewall portion and said third sidewall portion each having a recessed portion formed therein, said rod having a first and a second end, said first end resting in said first sidewall portion recessed portion and said second end resting in said third sidewall portion recessed portion, said first and third sidewall portions having the same dimensions, and said second and fourth sidewall portions having the same dimensions, each of the first, second, third, and fourth sidewall portions having a top edge and a bottom edge with the distance between said first sidewall portion top edge and said third sidewall portion top edge being greater than the distance between said first sidewall portion bottom edge and said third sidewall portion bottom edge, and the distance between said second sidewall portion top edge and said fourth sidewall portion top edge being greater than the distance between said second sidewall portion bottom edge and said fourth sidewall portion bottom edge, and a sleeve, said sleeve comprising a top surface, a bottom surface, and two end faces, said top surface and said bottom surface of said sleeve being parallel to one another, said sleeve encasing said tray. 12. The container according to claim 11 wherein each of said first, second, third, and fourth sidewall portions is of a trapezoidal shape, and each of said first and third sidewall portions is thicker than each of said second and fourth sidewall portions. 13. The container according to claim 11 wherein said end faces of said sleeve each have a top edge and a bottom edge with the distance between the top edge, of each of said end faces being greater than the distance between the bottom edge of each of said end faces. 14. The container according to claim 11 wherein said end faces of said sleeve have the same dimensions. 15. The container according to claim 11 wherein said top surface and said bottom surface of said sleeve are of a rectangular configuration and are parallel to one another. 16. A pharmaceutical distribution container comprising a base, a sidewall, and means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said container, said sidewall comprising a first sidewall portion, a second sidewall portion, a third sidewall portion, and a fourth sidewall portion, said means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said container comprising a rod, said rod secured between said first sidewall portion and said third sidewall portion, said first sidewall portion and said third sidewall portion each having a recessed portion formed therein only extending partially therethrough, said rod having a first and a second end, said first end resting in said first sidewall portion recessed portion and said second end resting in said third sidewall portion recessed portion. 17. The container according to claim 16 wherein at least a portion of the thickness of each of said first and third sidewall portions is greater than the thickness of each of said second and fourth sidewall portions. 18. A pharmaceutical distribution container comprising, a tray, said tray comprising a base, sidewall, and means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray, said sidewall comprising a first planar sidewall portion, a second planar sidewall portion, a third planar sidewall portion, and a fourth planar sidewall portion, said first planar sidewall portion and said third planar sidewall portion each having a recessed portion formed therein only extending partially therethrough, said means for retaining pharmaceuticals within said tray comprising a rod, said rod being secured between said first planar sidewall portion and said third planar sidewall portion, and a sleeve, said sleeve comprising a top surface, a bottom surface, and two end faces, said sleeve encasing said tray. 19. The container according to claim 18 wherein said rod has a first and a second end, said first end resting in said first planar sidewall portion recessed portion and said second end resting in said third planar sidewall recessed portion. 