A visual gyroscope system for detecting turns and straight line travel of a vehicle includes a visual image detector mounted on the vehicle, for producing sequential and successive digitized image data strips containing information identifying scenery about the vehicle at associated successive locations along the route travelled, A processor is programmed to extract from image detector each successive pair of image data strips, and rotate the second occurring strip of each pair until it matches the first occurring strip to obtain the incremental rotation and direction of rotation of the vehicle in its travel between strips. The incremental rotations between strips are accumulated and summed to obtain the total rotation upon completion of a turn, and along with the direction of rotation, identification of a right turn, left turn, u-turn, or straight line travel. Dead reckoning navigation is also provided via the inclusion of an odometer, for providing distance readings for the distance travelled between each successive image data strip.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A visual gyroscope, or yaw detector system for detecting the travel of a vehicle along a route, regardless of whether the vehicle makes turns or heads straight during such travel, comprising: visual image detecting means mounted on said vehicle, for producing successive digitized image data strips including information relating to features of scenery about said vehicle at successive locations or landmarks along the route, respectively; means for extracting two of the successive image data strips; means for rotating the second occurring image data strip until it matches the first occurring image data strip, and for measuring the amount of rotation of the former to obtain a match with the latter such that the measured amount of rotation is indicative of the turn direction and of the degree the vehicle turned in the time interval between the two successive image data strips. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said visual image detecting means includes means for detecting color. 3. The system of claim 1, further including odometer means for providing signals indicative of the distance said vehicle travels between locations associated with said image data strips, respectively. 4. The system of claim 3, further including means responsive to said odometer signals for indicating the distance said vehicle travelled in making the measured amount of rotation between the successive two image data strips. 5. The system of claim 4, further including turn direction means responsive to the turn direction for indicating whether said vehicle is making or has made a turn, including left-turns, right-turns, u-turns, and other types of turns. 6. The system of claim 4, further including: means for forming a skeleton map of a network of roads for use in constraining the position of said vehicle to said roads; and means responsive to said odometer signals and to the degree of vehicle turning from said rotating means for insuring constraining the vehicle's estimated location to be on said skeleton map. 7. The system of claim 4, further including heading means receptive of both a signal indicative of the initial heading of said vehicle, and of said turn direction for providing the heading of said vehicle at any given time. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said heading means includes means responsive to said vehicle heading in a straight pattern for indicating the end of a turn. 9. The system of claim 8, further including: said extraction means including means for extracting each sequentially occurring pair of successive image strips; and said rotating means including means for accumulating and summing the measured rotations and distances of each sequentially occurring pair of successive image strips, for providing the total rotation made and distance travelled by the vehicle in turning. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said rotating means further includes means indicating a u-turn, left-turn, right-turn or straight travel, if rounding of the accumulated measured rotations is -180.degree., -90.degree., +90.degree., or 0.degree., respectively, or rounding to a nearest plausible turn angle to handle cases of non-square intersections, such as Y-intersections, whereby plausible is determined by assuming the vehicle to be on a real roadway in a street map and assuming it to remain on a real roadway after the turn. 11. The system of claim 10, further including: a map display responsive to said odometer signals, and to said measured amount of rotation, for displaying the position of said vehicle thereon as it traces travel along a route, whereby said system is initialized by having said vehicle begin at a known starting position on said route. 12. The system of claim 10, further including dead reckoning means for extracting the current position of said vehicle at all times. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said dead reckoning means includes: means for initializing said system with a known starting position and a known heading; means for adding each measured turn increment to the previous heading to obtain a new heading for determining the direction of a vector corresponding to vehicle motion; and means for adding each successive distance measured by said odometer means between every two successive image data strips, to said vector for the previous position of the vehicle, for obtaining the vehicle's current position. 