The present invention, which relates to post hydration processing of contact lenses and the packages into which the lenses are placed, includes several assemblies which are ideally suited to performing the various steps which are associated with post hydration processing. These several assemblies include: a deionizing water injection assembly which fills the packaging elements prior to the lenses being inserted therein; a lens transfer and insertion assembly which removes contact lenses from hydration pallets, alters their spatial distribution, and deposits them into the packaging elements; a buffering station, which includes segregator and integrator devices, and which provides a location for temporarily holding a group of lens-packaging pallets during interruption of subsequent assemblies; a low vibration lens-package transport and inspection assembly which removes the pallets from a conveyor line, inserts them onto low vibration inspection assembly conveyor line, and inspects the lenses to determine which are optically correct; a deionized water extraction assembly which removes the deionized water from the lens-packaging elements; a first rotating lens-package transfer assembly, which removes the lens-package elements from the pallet and deposits the optically correct ones onto a consolidating conveyor line; a consolidating conveyor line and rotating lens-package transfer assembly, the former consolidating the lenses into regular arrays, and the latter rotating and transporting them to the final station; and a saline solution injector and foil wrapper sealing assembly, which fills the packages with saline solution and then heat seals a foil wrapper to the tops of the packaging elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A post hydration apparatus for transporting, inspecting, and packaging contact lens elements, said apparatus comprising: a deionized water injection assembly which injects deionized water into a plurality of packaging elements; a first lens transfer assembly which receives the contact lens elements from a lens pallet at a first location, and deposits them into said packaging elements thereby forming lens-package elements; an inspection station for optically inspecting the contact lens elements; a deionized water extraction assembly for removing the deionized water from the lens-package elements; a first lens-package transport assembly for separating a first set of the lens-package elements which pass inspection from a second set of lens-package elements which do not pass inspection, and transporting the first set of lens-package elements to a packaging station wherein the packaging station further comprises a consolidating conveyor line for receiving the first set of lens-package elements from the first lens-package transport assembly, repositioning the first set of lens-package elements in regular arrays, and transporting the array to said saline solution injector and foil sealing assembly; and a saline solution injector and foil sealing assembly positioned to receive the first set of lens-package elements to inject a quantity of saline solution into the lens-package elements, and to heat seal a foil label to a set of lens-package elements. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a second lens-package transport assembly, which extracts the regular arrays of the first set of lens-package elements from the consolidating line, and transports them to the saline solution injector and foil sealing assembly. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a lens-package conveyor for transporting the second set of lens-package elements to a remote waste collection bin, and wherein said first lens-package transport assembly further transports the second set of lens-package elements to the lens-package conveyor and deposits the second set thereon. 4. A post post-hydration method of transporting, inspecting, and sealing contact lens elements in corresponding packaging elements, comprising the steps of: injecting deionized water into the packaging elements; inserting the contact lens elements into said packaging elements, thereby forming a set of lens-package elements; inspecting the contact lens elements to determine whether the contact lens elements are optically correct or if they are not optically correct; extracting the deionized water from the lens-package elements; separating the optically correct contact lens elements from those which are not optically correct; injecting saline solution into said lens-package elements containing optically correct contact elements; heat sealing a foil wrapper to the saline solution filled lens-package elements and extracting the contact lens elements from a hydration pallet having a relative spatial distribution before inserting the contact lens elements into said packaging elements, wherein the relative spatial distribution of the contact lens elements is changed before inserting the contact lens elements into said packaging elements; the step of extracting the contact lens elements comprises ejecting a quantity of air from beneath each contact lens element to propel it onto a lens carrying means. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4, further comprising transporting the lens-packages containing set of lens-package elements which contain lenses which are not optically correct to a remote waste collection means. 6. The method as set forth in claim 4, wherein said step of ejecting a quantity of air from beneath each contact lens element is succeeded by a step of directing a jet of air at each contact lens element in order to remove air bubbles which may have adhered to the contact lens elements. 7. A post-hydration apparatus for transporting, inspecting, and sealing contact lens elements in corresponding packaging elements, comprising: A. a deionized water injection assembly which injects deionized water into the packaging elements; B. a lens transfer assembly which receives the contact lens elements from a lens pallet at a first location, alters the spatial relationship of the lenses, transports the lenses to a second location, and deposits the lenses into said packaging elements thereby forming a set of lens-package elements, said lens transfer assembly comprising; 1. a set of horizontal guide rails; 2. a plurality of beam elements, slidably mounted in parallel on at least one of said of horizontal guide rails; 3. a reciprocating means coupled to said beam elements for reciprocating same along said guide rails with respect to one another; 4. a plurality of finger elements disposed in a linear array, extending downwardly from at least one of said beam elements, each of said finger elements comprising: a. a mounting bracket, b. an elongate shaft, having an upper and lower end, c. a lens transfer surface at the lower end of the shaft for receiving, and securely holding, thereon at least one of said contact lens elements, d. a slotted annular skirt disposed along the shaft adjacent to said lens transfer surface, for maintaining the contact lens at a predetermined position; and e. a translation mechanism for reciprocating said mounting bracket in at least one direction; C. a deionized water extraction assembly for removing the deionized water from the lens-package elements; D. a lens-package transport assembly for transporting the lens-package elements to a packaging station; and E. a saline solution injector and foil sealing assembly positioned to receive the lens-package elements and to inject therein a quantity of saline solution, and to heat seal a foil label to a top surface of the lens-package elements. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said finger elements further comprise a central bore, extending from said upper end to said lower end, for receiving therethrough, and selectively ejecting therefrom, a quantity of fluid. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said lens pallets comprises: a plate having a plurality of recesses, each of said recesses having at least one hole therein, in which recesses a contact lens may be disposed; and a plurality of internal conduits within said plate, extending from each of said holes to a fluid source, whereby selective ejection of fluid through the conduits causes a contact lens in said recess to be transferred to said lens transfer assembly. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, further comprising an air jet unit positioned at said second location, said air jet unit comprising: a plate having a plurality of a regularly spaced recesses therein, said regular spaced recesses corresponding to a spatial distribution of said finger elements; at least one hole in each of said recesses; a conduit extending from a remote air reservoir to said hole in each of said recesses; an air pressure means for selectively directing air through said conduit, out of said hole, and at a contact lens which is secured to the lens transfer surface of said finger elements for removal of any bubbles present thereon. 