A simple and computationally efficient approach is disclosed for on-line coordinated control of mobile robots consisting of a manipulator arm mounted on a mobile base. The effect of base mobility on the end-effector manipulability index is discussed. The base mobility and arm manipulation degrees-of-freedom are treated equally as the joints of a kinematically redundant composite robot. The redundancy introduced by the mobile base is exploited to satisfy a set of user-defined additional tasks during the end-effector motion. A simple on-line control scheme is proposed which allows the user to assign weighting factors to individual degrees-of-mobility and degrees-of-manipulation, as well as to each task specification. The computational efficiency of the control algorithm makes it particularly suitable for real-time implementations. Four case studies are discussed in detail to demonstrate the application of the coordinated control scheme to various mobile robots.
Claims Having thus described a preferred embodiment of the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a mobile robot, the robot of the type having a mobile base having at least one degree of mobility and a manipulatable arm having at least one degree of manipulation; the method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a forward kinematic model that relates arm and base joint coordinates to end-effector coordinates; (b) generating a differential kinematic model that relates end-effector velocity to arm and base joint velocities including Jacobian matrices of the arm and base, respectively; (c) augmenting by column the arm Jacobian matrix with the base Jacobian matrix to obtain an overall end-effector Jacobian matrix where the availability of base mobility appears as extra columns in the end-effector Jacobian matrix because of effectively increasing the dimension of the joint space; (d) augmenting by row the end-effector Jacobian matrix of step (c) with a constraint Jacobian matrix which relates to a user-defined additional task to be accomplished due to kinematic redundancy where said additional task results in extra rows in the end-effector Jacobian matrix due to an increase of the task space; (e) selecting end-effector and constraint task weighting factors and arm and base joint velocity weighting factors; (f) finding the optimal arm and base motions using a closed-loop damped-least-squares approach; and (g) moving the arm and base of said robot in accordance with the optimal motions resulting from carrying out steps (a) through (f). 2. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said kinematic redundancy recited in step (d) results from a task space which is at least one dimension less than the sum of the revolute joints and prismatic joints of said robot. 3. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said mobile robot is a tracked robot. 4. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said mobile robot is a gantry robot. 5. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said mobile robot is a wheeled robot. 6. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said mobile robot is a compound robot. 7. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the number of degrees-of-freedom of said mobile robot is equal to the sum of the number of degrees-of-manipulation of said arm and the number of degrees-of-mobility of said base. 8. The method recited in claim 1 wherein said end-effector and constraint task weighting factors are selected on-line based on user requirements for real-time implementation of on-line control of said mobile robot. 9. A method for on-line, real-time control of a mobile robot having a mobile base and a manipulatable arm mounted on the base to provide a number of degrees-of-freedom equal to the sum of the number of degrees-of-base-mobility and the number of degrees-of-arm-manipulation, the robot operating in a multi-dimension task space wherein the number of task-space-dimensions is less than the degrees-of-freedom; the method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a forward kinematic model that relates arm and base joint coordinates to end-effector coordinates; (b) generating a differential kinematic model that relates end-effector velocity to arm and base joint velocities including Jacobian matrices of the arm and base, respectively; (c) augmenting by column the arm Jacobian matrix with the base Jacobian matrix to obtain an overall end-effector Jacobian matrix where the availability of base mobility appears as extra columns in the end-effector Jacobian matrix because of effectively increasing the dimension of the joint space; (d) augmenting by row the end-effector Jacobian matrix of step (c) with a constraint Jacobian matrix which relates to a user-defined additional task to be accomplished due to kinematic redundancy where said additional task results in extra rows in the end-effector Jacobian matrix due to an increase of the task space; (e) selecting end-effector and constraint task weighting factors and arm and base joint velocity weighting factors; (f) finding the optimal arm and base motions using a closed-loop damped-least-squares approach; and (g) moving the arm and base of said robot in accordance with the optimal motions resulting from carrying out steps (a) through (f). 10. The method recited in claim 9 wherein said kinematic redundancy recited in step (d) results from a task space which is at least one dimension less than the sum of the revolute joints and prismatic joints of said robot. 11. The method recited in claim 9 wherein said mobile robot is a tracked robot. 12. The method recited in claim 9 wherein said mobile robot is a gantry robot. 13. The method recited in claim 9 wherein said mobile robot is a wheeled robot. 14. The method recited in claim 9 wherein said mobile robot is a compound robot. 