An apparatus for transporting a plurality of fasteners in an automated changing system, i.e., in a robotic tool changing system, wherein the system includes a tooling adaptor assembly adapted to be coupled and decoupled to and from a robot adaptor assembly. The transport apparatus includes a first member which has a first passage formed therethrough and a second member which has a second passage formed therethrough. Both the first and second members are mutually adapted for alignment to one another when the adaptor assemblies are coupled. When the adaptor assemblies are coupled together, the first and second members form an interface fitting so that the plurality of fasteners, i.e., studs, may pass therethrough, and ultimately be transported to a tool, i.e., a stud welding gun.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robotic tool changing system which facilitates the automatic exchange of tools on an end of a robot arm, the combination comprising: a robot adapter assembly for attachment to the end of the robot arm; a tooling adapter assembly for attachment to a fastener attaching tool; means for coupling said tooling adapter assembly to said robot adapter assembly; a first passage defining member associated with said robot adapter assembly, said first passage defining member having an entry port at a first end thereof and an exit port at a second end thereof; a second passage defining member associated with said tooling adapter assembly, said second passage defining member having an entry port at a first end thereof and an exit port at a second end thereof; a first feed tube for transporting fasteners from a source of fasteners to said entry port of the first passage defining member; a second feed tube for transporting fasteners from the exit port of said second passage defining member to the fastener attaching tool; and wherein the coupling of the tooling adapter assembly to the robot adapter assembly causes said first and second passage defining members to engage and define a passageway extending from said entry port of said first passage defining member to said exit port of said second passage defining member to allow a fastener to be transported from said source of fasteners through said first feed tube, said passageway and said second feed tube to the fastener attaching tool. 2. The combination of claim 1 wherein said first feed tube extends along the robot arm. 3. The combination of claim 1 wherein at least one of said first passage defining member and said second passage defining member is compliantly mounted. 