A method and system for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating movement utilizing a robot and a robotic human body simulator mounted at a distal end of an arm thereof wherein a seat back surface as well as a seat bottom surface are wear tested without the need of video tape interpretation by a user of the system. Measured data is obtained by measuring 3-D locations of parts of a human during ingress of the human onto a calibration seat and egress of the human from the calibration seat. The measured data represents locations of the parts of the human. A control program is generated on the measured data by transforming the measured data to control program targets. Load and/or pressure feedback is provided for control program verification. The simulator includes a plurality of drives which receive drive control signals from a robot controller for moving a trunk and thigh parts of the simulator relative to and independent of one another to test wear characteristics of the seat bottom surface and the seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for wear testing a seat by simulating human seating activity, the method comprising the steps of: providing a robot, including an arm with a robotic human body simulator connected at a distal end thereof; measuring 3-D locations of parts of a human during ingress of the human onto a calibration seat and egress of the human from the calibration seat to obtain measured data representing locations of the parts of the human; generating a control program based on the measured data; and repeatedly driving the robot arm and the robotic human body simulator between a withdrawn position and a seat-surface engaging position based on the control program to test wear characteristics of a seat bottom surface and a seat back surface of the seat under test for a plurality of cycles. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of measuring includes the step of scanning a three-dimensional field of view occupied by the human and the calibration seat and taking successive images of the field of view. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of scanning is performed by a plurality of cameras. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of measuring further includes the step of converting the images into the measured data. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of measuring force exerted by the human on the seat during the ingress and egress to obtain force exertion data. 6. The method as claimed in claim 5 further comprising the steps of: generating signals indicative of forces applied to the simulator during the step of repeatedly driving; and processing the signals and the force exertion data to verify the control program. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the electrical signals are also indicative of moments applied to the simulator during the wear test. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of attaching target markers to the parts of the human and wherein the measured data represents locations of the target members on the parts of the human. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the target markers are passive target markers. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of measuring includes the steps of: detecting the target markers; and calculating the locations of the detected target markers to obtain the measured data. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of generating includes the step of transforming the measured data into control targets representing the parts of the human. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of measuring also measures 3-D locations of parts of the calibration seat and wherein the measured data also represents locations of the parts of the calibration seat. 