Apparatus for lifting a wafer, or other such workpiece, from the surface of pedestal in a semiconductor wafer processing system. More specifically, the apparatus relates to a lift pin that is guided by a guide bushing and a guide pin. Preferably, the lift pin is hollow and is slideably engaged with a guide pin. The guide pin is fixed relative to the pedestal and coaxially aligned with a lift pin bore in the pedestal. An actuator drives the lift pin along the guide pin from a fully retracted lift pin position to a fully extended lift pin position. A guide bushing, located in the pedestal proximate the lift pin, also guides the lift pin as the pin passes through the lift pin bore. The guide bushing forms a lip seal between the lift pin and the pedestal. Furthermore, a bellows surrounding the lift pin and the guide pin, can also be used to preserve the integrity of the chamber environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for lifting a workpiece from a surface of a pedestal, comprising a guide pin; a lift pin, having an interior surface and an exterior surface, said interior surface being slideably engaged and guided by said guide pin; and wherein said lift pin passes through a bore in said pedestal to engage said workpiece; and an actuator for moving said lift pin relative to said guide pin. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a guide bushing, circumscribing said lift pin, for guiding said lift pin through a bore in said pedestal. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said guide bushing forms a lip seal. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means, coupled to said lift pin, for engaging an actuator that moves said lift pin to engage an underside of the workpiece. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said means comprises: a lift pin flange on said lift pin; and an actuator, coupled to said lift pin flange, for driving said lift pin along said guide pin. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a lift pin flange on said lift pin; and a bellows having a first end and a second end, where said first end is sealed to said lift pin flange and said second end is sealed to a pedestal. 7. An apparatus for lifting a workpiece, comprising: a pedestal having a surface for supporting the workpiece and a plurality of lift pin bores; a plurality of guide pins, where each respective guide pin is attached to said pedestal and coaxially aligned with a respective lift pin bore; and a plurality of lift pins, where each of said lift pins has an interior surface and an exterior surface, wherein said interior surface slideably engages a respective guide pin and is guided by said respective guide pin through a respective lift pin bore. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a plurality of guide bushings, where each of said guide bushings is located in a respective lift pin bore and circumscribes a respective lift pin. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein each of said guide bushings forms a lip seal. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: means, coupled to each of said lift pins, for engaging an actuator that lifts said plurality of lift pins to engage an underside of the workpiece. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means comprises: a lift pin flange on each of said lift pins; and an actuator, coupled to said lift pin flange of each of the lift pins, for driving each of the lift pins along a respective guide pin. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a lift pin flange on each of said lift pins; and a plurality of bellows, each of the bellows having a first end and a second end and circumscribing a respective lift pin, where the first end is sealed to the lift pin flange of a respective lift pin and the second end is sealed to the pedestal. 13. An apparatus for lifting a workpiece, comprising: a pedestal, having a surface for supporting the workpiece and a plurality of lift pin bores; a plurality of guide pins, each respective guide pin being attached to said pedestal and coaxially aligned with a respective lift pin bore; and a plurality of lift pins, where each of said lift pins has an interior surface and an exterior surface, where said interior surface of each of said lift pins slideably engages a respective guide pin and is guided through a respective lift pin bore, and each of said lift pins contains a flange; a plurality of guide bushings, where at least one guide bushing is located in each of said lift pin bores and circumscribes said respective lift pin to form a lip seal; and an actuator, coupled to the lift pin flanges, for driving each of the lift pins along each of the guide pins and thereby extending the lift pins to engage an underside of the workpiece. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: a plurality of bellows, each of the bellows circumscribing a respective lift pin and having a first end and a second end, where the first end is sealed to the lift pin flange of each of the lift pins and the second end is sealed to the pedestal. 