A method and system are provided for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station including a first sheet metal press to a second sheet metal press by providing a pendulum-type robot, including an arm assembly mounted on a support structure to swing about a first axis located above and between the first and second presses. The arm assembly not only swings about a first axis but also rotates about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis and a third axis which is orthogonal to the second axis. During swinging movement of the arm assembly about the first axis, rotation of the arm assembly about the second and third axes allows a center of gravity of the workpiece to follow a substantially straight line path between the first and second presses. The arm assembly includes first and second four-bar linkages, which are pivotally connected together to rotate about the second axis. Preferably, a wrist mechanism is provided to permit rotation of the part between the presses. Also preferably, a counterbalance mechanism in the form of a cable balancing device is provided to support the arm assembly against gravity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station along a substantially horizontal flow path, the system comprising: an elevated support structure offset horizontally from the flow path; a robot including a base mounted on the support structure and including an arm assembly pivotally supported proximal a first end of the arm assembly to swing about and below a substantially horizontal first axis adapted to be located above and between the first and second work stations, so that the arm assembly is capable of swinging like a pendulum between the first work station and the second work station about the first axis, the first axis being located in a vertical plane intersecting the flow path proximal a middle point of the flow path between the two work stations; and an end effector mounted on the arm assembly, wherein the arm assembly includes a first four-bar linkage pivotally connected to the base at the first axis and a second four-bar linkage pivotally connected to the first four-bar linkage to rotate about a substantially vertical second axis wherein the second axis intersects the first axis when the arm assembly is located in a substantially vertical position, said vertical position being locatable one-half of the distance between the first and second work stations, and at least part of the second linkage pivotally connected to rotate about a third axis, said third axis lies in a plane substantially orthogonal to the second axis. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a counterbalance mechanism attached to the arm assembly so that the amount of torque required to hold the arm assembly at each of the first and second work stations is substantially reduced. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the arm assembly includes a first arm part pivotally connected to the base at one end of the first arm part to swing about the first axis, a platform pivotally connected to a second end of the first arm part and a second arm part pivotally connected at its ends to the base and the platform wherein the base, the first and second arm parts and the platform define the first four-bar linkage and wherein the platform is maintained in a substantially fixed orientation during swinging movement of the arm assembly. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the arm assembly includes a connecting link pivotally connected to the platform to rotate about the second axis, a first link pivotally connected to the connecting link at one end of the first link and a support member pivotally connected to a second end of the first link wherein the first link is rotatable about the third axis to move the support member, and a second link pivotally connected at its ends to the connecting link and to the support member wherein the connecting link, the first and second links and the support member define the second four-bar linkage. 5. The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the arm assembly includes a mounting part pivotally connected to the support member to rotate about a fourth axis to move the end effector in a plane. 6. The system as claimed in claim 5 further comprising a wrist mechanism for connecting the mounting part to the end effector, the wrist mechanism being rotatable about at least one wrist axis. 7. The system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the wrist mechanism is rotatable about a second wrist axis wherein the robot is capable of positioning and orienting the workpiece in a three-dimensional space with six degrees of freedom. 8. The system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the counterbalance mechanism is a cable-balancing device including a tension cable connected between the arm assembly and the supporting structure for supporting the arm assembly. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the cable balancing device includes a cylinder mounted on the support structure and connected to the cable for placing the cable under continuous tension to compensate for variations in effective cable lengths during swinging movement of the arm assembly from the first work station to the second work station. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the cable balancing device includes a plurality of spaced pulleys interconnected by the cable, one of the plurality of pulleys being mounted on the cylinder and another one of the plurality of pulleys being mounted to one of the support structure and one of the work stations and wherein the cable extends between and over the plurality of pulleys. 11. A method for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station having a distance therebetween, the method comprising the steps of: providing a support structure; providing a robot including an arm assembly rotatable about first, second and third axes, the second axis being substantially orthogonal to the first axis and the third axis being substantially orthogonal to the second axis, the robot being supported on the support structure so that the arm assembly is located at a position above and between the first and second work stations, and so that the arm assembly is capable of swinging between the first work station and the second work station about and below the first axis; providing an end effector on the arm assembly; swinging the arm assembly about the first axis to the first work station; utilizing the end effector to pick up the workpiece at the first work station; swinging the arm assembly from the first work station to the second work station such that the force of gravity accelerates the arm assembly within a first half of the distance between the first and second work stations and decelerates the arm assembly within a second half of the distance, thereby allowing a quick and efficient transfer of the workpiece between the first and second work stations; rotating the arm assembly about the second and third axes during the step of swinging the arm assembly from the first work station to the second work station to allow a center of gravity of the workpiece to follow a substantially straight line path between the first and second work stations wherein the second axis intersects the first axis when the arm assembly is located substantially one-half of the distance between the first and second work stations; and utilizing the end effector to place the workpiece at the second work station. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11 wherein at least one of the work stations includes a sheet metal press having a pair of opposing dies and wherein the workpiece is a sheet metal part. 13. The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the substantially fixed orientation is generally horizontal. 14. The system as claimed in claim 4 wherein the first and second axes are orthogonal to one another. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14 wherein the second and third axes are orthogonal to one another. 16. The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the third and fourth axes are orthogonal to one another. 17. The system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the at least one wrist axis is orthogonal to the fourth axis. 18. The system as claimed in claim 7 wherein the at least one wrist axis is orthogonal to the second wrist axis. 19. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second axis is orthogonal to the first and third axes. 20. A system for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station along a straight line flow path, the system comprising: a support structure; a robot supported on the support structure and including an arm assembly having a first and second linkages, the first linkage being pivotally supported proximal the first end of the arm assembly to swing about and below a first axis adapted to be located above and between the first and second work stations, and the second linkage being supported on the first linkage to rotate about second and third axes, the arm assembly being capable of swinging between the first work station and the second work station about the first axis wherein gravitational force is utilized to at least partially drive the first linkage between the first work station and the second work station in a plane that is offset from and parallel to the flow path wherein the second axis intersects the first axis when the first linkage is substantially midway along the flow path; and an end effector supported on a second end of the arm assembly distal the first axis and adapted to pick up the workpiece at the first work station and adapted to place the workpiece at the second work station. 21. A system for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station, the system comprising: a support structure; a robot supported on the support structure and including an arm assembly pivotally supported proximal the first end of the arm assembly to swing about and below a first axis adapted to be located above and between the first and second work stations, the arm assembly including two independently actuated linkages which are relatively rotatable about second and third axes and which are adapted to swing between the first work station and the second work station about the first axis wherein gravitational force is utilized to at least partially drive the workpiece between the first work station and the second work station wherein movement of one of the linkages relative to the other linkage about the third axis is adapted to compensate for any height difference between the first and second work stations so that the workpiece follows a path that approximates a straight line between the first and second work stations and wherein the second axis intersects the first axis when the arm assembly is substantially midway along the path; and an end effector supported on a second end of the arm assembly distal the first axis and adapted to pick up the workpiece at the first work station and adapted to place the workpiece at the second work station. 22. A system for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station along a substantially horizontal flow path, the system comprising: an elevated support structure offset horizontally from the flow path; a robot including a base mounted on the support structure and including an arm assembly pivotally supported proximal a first end of the arm assembly to swing about a first axis, wherein the first axis is located in a substantially vertical position, said vertical position being locatable above and between the first and second work stations in a vertical plane intersecting the flow path proximal a middle point between the two work stations; an end effector mounted on the arm assembly wherein the arm assembly includes a first four bar linkage pivotally connected to the base at the first axis and further includes a second four bar linkage pivotally connected to the first four bar linkage to rotate about a substantially vertical second axis and at least part of the second four bar linkage pivotally connected to rotate about a third axis which lies in a plane substantially orthogonal to the second axis. 23. A system for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station along a substantially horizontal flow path, the system comprising: an elevated support structure offset horizontally from the flow path; a robot including a first four bar linkage having a base link mounted on the support structure in a substantially vertical position, said vertical position being locatable above and between the first and second work stations, a first transport link substantially equal in length to the length of the base link, and two control links of substantially equal lengths pivotally connected to the base link and the first transport link to swing below the base link about a set of substantially horizontal axes including a first axis located at the base link in a vertical plane locatable so as to intersect the flow path proximal a middle point between the first and second work stations, a platform link pivotally connected to the first transport link to rotate about a substantially vertical second axis, a second transport link, and two height compensating links pivotally connected to both the platform link and the second transport link to form a second four bar linkage having a set of parallel pivotal axes including a third axis which lies in a plane which is substantially horizontal and orthogonal to the second axis; and an end effector mounted on the second transport link and adapted to pick up the workpiece at the first work station and adapted to place the workpiece at the second work station. 24. A system for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station along a substantially horizontal flow path intersecting a median plane orthogonally proximal a middle point of the flow path, the system comprising: an elevated support structure offset horizontally in the medial plane from the flow path; a robot including a base link mounted on the support structure in a substantially vertical position, said vertical position being locatable above and between the first and second work stations, a first transport link connected to the base link by means of two first control links to form a first parallel four bar mechanism having a first set of substantially horizontal pivotal axes adapted to be located between the first and second work stations, a second transport link, a platform link pivotally connected to the first transport link about a substantially vertical second axis and connected to the second transport link by means of two second control links to form a second parallel four bar mechanism having a second set of substantially horizontal pivotal axes, said base link being substantially parallel to the flow path; and an end effector mounted on the second transport link and adapted to pick up the workpiece at the first work station and adapted to place the workpiece at the second work station. 25. The system of claim 24 further comprising a gravity counterbalance mechanism attached to the robot. 26. The system of claim 24 wherein the end effector is pivotally supported on the second transport link to rotate about a substantially vertical third axis in a substantially horizontal plane. 27. The system of claim 25 wherein the end effector is pivotally supported on the second transport link to rotate about a substantially vertical third axis in a substantially horizontal plane. 28. The system as claimed in claims 24, 25, 26 or 27, further comprising a multi-axis wrist mechanism for connecting the end effector to the second transport link hence allowing the system to pick up and place the workpiece in multiple orientations. 29. A method for quickly and efficiently transferring a workpiece from a first work station to a second work station having a generally horizontal transfer path therebetween, the method comprising the steps of: providing an elevated support structure at a location offset perpendicularly and horizontally from the transfer path and between the first and second work stations; providing a robot having links independently rotatable about first, second, and third axes by means of first, second, and third axis actuators, respectively; the first axis being substantially horizontal and substantially perpendicular to the transfer path, and adapted to be located above and between the first and second work stations; the second axis being substantially vertical and rotatable about the first axis; and the third axis being substantially horizontal and rotatable about the second axis, hence, providing the robot with three generally independent degrees of freedom; the robot being pivotally supported on the elevated support structure to swing about and below the first axis so as to reciprocate between the first and the second work stations; providing the robot with an end effector; rotating the robot about the first axis under power of the first axis actuator to move the robot to the first work station thereby initiating a workpiece transfer cycle; stopping the robot momentarily at the first work station; utilizing the end effector to pick up the workpiece at the first work station; and swinging the robot from the first work station to the second work station so that the force of gravity accelerates the robot within a first half of the distance between the first and second work stations and decelerates the robot within a second half of the distance, thereby minimizing the energy spent by the first axis actuator and allowing quick and efficient transfer of the workpiece between the first and second work stations; stopping the robot momentarily at the second work station; utilizing the end effector to place the workpiece at the second work station; swinging the robot from the second work station to the first work station thus allowing the robot to begin a new transfer cycle. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising the step of: actuating the second and third axis actuators during the step of swinging the robot from the first work station to the second work station to allow a center of gravity of the workpiece to follow a substantially straight line path between the first and second work stations. 31. The method of claims 29 or 30 further comprising the steps of: providing the robot with a gravitational balancing device actuable by robot program commands; and actuating the gravitational balancing device during the steps of rotating and stopping to conserve the power of the first axis actuator for exerting higher acceleration on the workpiece during the steps of swinging, hence allowing quicker and more efficient transfer of the workpiece from the first work station to the second work station. 