A lighting system for use in a conveyer system used for work piece assembly comprising a lifting means (285) having one or more transparent upper lifting members (260) for lifting the work piece (270) and a lighting means (230) positioned below the transparent members and rotatably coupled to the lifting means (285) by a rotating means. The lighting means rotatably extends when the lifting means (285) is raised, thereby providing illumination to the work piece (270), and rotatably retracts when the lifting means (285) is lowered.
Claims We claim: 1. A lighting system for use in a conveyer system used for assembling a work piece, comprising: lifting means for lifting the work piece; lighting means, positioned below a transparent member of said lifting means, for illuminating the work piece; and rotating means for coupling said lighting means to said lifting means; and wherein said lighting means rotatably extends when said lifting means is raised, thereby providing illumination to said work piece, and rotatably retracts when said lifting means is lowered. 2. The lighting system in accordance with claim 1 wherein said lighting means is rotated towards a horizontal position substantially parallel to the work piece when rotatably extended and is rotated towards a vertical position when rotatably retracted. 3. The lighting system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a guide member for guiding said lighting means when said lifting means is raised and lowered. 4. The lighting system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a camera means for visualizing a fiducial marking on the work piece which is illuminated by said lighting means when said lifting means is raised. 5. The lighting system in accordance with claim 1 comprising a controller for switching power to said lighting means when said lighting means rotatably extends. 6. A lighting system for use in a conveyer system used for assembling a work piece, comprising: a lifting mechanism comprising: a lifting plate for lifting the work piece from a carrying mechanism of the conveyor system, wherein said lifting plate is horizontally oriented, and substantially transparent, and a drive rod which has a vertically oriented drive axis and is coupled to said lifting plate, wherein said drive rod raises and lowers said lifting plate in the direction of the drive axis; and a light positioned below said lifting plate for illuminating the work piece through said lifting plate, wherein said light is rotatably coupled to said drive rod, wherein said light rotatably extends with respect to said drive axis towards a horizontal position in response to a rising of said drive rod, and rotatably retracts with respect to said drive axis towards a vertical position in response to a lowering of said lifting mechanism. 7. The lighting system in accordance with claim 6, wherein said lifting plate is slidably coupled to the drive rod along the drive axis, and wherein the lifting mechanism further comprises at least one guide member fixed to said drive rod and slidably coupled to said light for guiding said light to rotatably extend in response to at least a portion of the rising of said lifting mechanism. 8. The lighting system in accordance with claim 6, wherein the light comprises two lamps having substantially flat emission areas for providing substantially uniform lighting in a vertical direction through the lifting plate when said drive rod is in a fully raised position and said lamps are in a substantially horizontal position, wherein said drive rod is rotatably coupled to each lamp. 9. The lighting system in accordance with claim 6, wherein the light comprises: a flat plate for extending into a narrow vertical space existing between the carrying mechanism and the lifting plate when the drive rod is in a fully raised position and the work piece has been lifted above the work piece carrying mechanism by the lifting plate; and a flat fiber optic bundle affixed to the flat plate and shaped to provide a substantially uniform beam of light perpendicular to said flat plate. 10. The lighting system in accordance with claim 6, wherein said lifting plate is slidably coupled to the drive rod along the drive axis, and wherein said light is slidably coupled to a bottom surface of said lifting plate for guiding said light to rotatably extend in response to at least a portion of the rising of said lifting mechanism. 