An apparatus generates power at micro-scale dimensions that is sufficient to simulate the muscle activity required by the joints of robotic fingers. The apparatus includes a bellows device for generating a motion stimulus in response to pressure changes within the bellows. A configuration of programmable micromachined valves is used to regulate the flow of pressurized fluid within the bellows. A microprocessor is responsive to motion commands for controlling the operation of the apparatus. The apparatus is configured as an integrated device that is coupled to the articulations of a robotic hand via suitable attachment mechanisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated apparatus for generating a motion stimulus, said apparatus comprising: a base; bellows means, at least partially integrally coupled to said base and responsive to a pressure condition at an input port of said bellows means, for generating a motion stimulus; valve means, at least partially formed within said base and integrally coupled to said bellows means, for operatively regulating the application of pressure to the input port of said bellows means; and a controller means, at least partially formed within said base, for controlling the operation of said valve means. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising pressure generation means for generating said pressure. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said pressure generation means comprises: source means for generating a flow of pressurized fluid; and vacuum means for generating a vacuum pressure. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein said source means generates a pneumatic fluid flow. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein said source means generates a hydraulic fluid flow. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein said valve means comprises: a first selectively operable micromachined valve adapted to admit the flow of pressurized fluid from said source means into said bellows means; and a second selectively operable micromachined valve coupled to said vacuum means and adapted to withdraw pressure from said bellows means. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said valve means comprises a micromachined valve adapted to be selectively coupled to said source means for admitting the flow of pressurized fluid from said source means into said bellows means, or coupled to said vacuum means for withdrawing pressurized fluid from said bellows means. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, further comprising: a fluid supply port for coupling said source means to said valve means; and a fluid drain port for coupling said vacuum means to said valve means. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising connector means for providing data signals and power signals to said controller means, wherein said data signals are representative of a desired movement of said bellows means. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said controller means comprises a microcomputer. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 10, further comprising: detection means, in motion-detecting relationship with said bellows means, for detecting a position of said bellows means; and feedback means, responsive to the detected position of said bellows means and a position command signal from said microcomputer that is representative of a selected position of said bellows means, for adjusting the operation of said valve means. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said bellows means is configured to generate a substantially linear thrust. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said bellows means is configured to generate a substantially non-linear thrust. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein said substantially non-linear thrust includes a rotational motion component. 15. A robotic system comprising: at least one robotic movable member; and an integrated actuator assembly coupled to said robotic movable member for moving said robotic movable member, said integrated actuator assembly comprising: a base, bellows means for generating a motion stimulus as pressurized fluid flows through an input port thereof, valve means, at least partially formed within said base in fluid communication with the input port of said bellows means, for controllably regulating the fluid flow through the input port of said bellows means, and controller means, at least partially formed within said base and coupled to said valve means, for controlling the operation of said valve means. 16. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein said bellows means is operable in an expansion mode to create thrust in a first direction to move said robotic movable member as pressurized fluid is admitted into said bellows means, and operable in a compression mode to create thrust in a second direction opposite to said first direction to move said robotic movable member as pressurized fluid is withdrawn from said bellows means. 17. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein said bellows means is configured to generate a substantially linear motion stimulus to move said robotic movable member. 18. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein said bellows means is configured to generate a substantially curvilinear motion stimulus to move said robotic movable member. 19. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, further comprising: fluid supply means, coupled to said valve means, for supplying a flow of pressurized fluid to said valve means; and fluid reservoir means, coupled to said valve means and maintained at a pressure sufficient to withdraw fluid from said bellows means and then through said valve means, for receiving fluid withdrawn from said bellows means. 20. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein said valve means comprises a configuration of programmable micromachined valves. 21. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein said controller means comprises a microprocessor. 22. The robotic system as recited in claim 21, wherein the integrated actuator assembly further comprises: connector means adapted to receive data signals indicating a requested operating state of said bellows means, and to receive power signals; and receiver means, coupled to said connector means, for distributing said power signals as required by electrical requirements of said actuator assembly, and forwarding said data signals to said microprocessor. 23. The robotic system as recited in claim 22, wherein said microprocessor is responsive to said data signals for generating a command signal that effects the appropriate operation of said valve means consistent with the requested operating state of said bellows means. 24. The robotic system as recited in claim 23, wherein the integrated actuator assembly further comprises memory means, coupled to said microprocessor and including a plurality of position commands each indexed to an operating state of said bellows means, for providing as said command signal the position command corresponding to said requested operating state. 25. The robotic system as recited in claim 21, further comprising: detection means, in motion-detecting relationship with said bellows means, for detecting a position of said bellows means; and feedback means, responsive to the detected position of said bellows means and a position command signal from said microprocessor that is representative of a selected motion of said bellows means, for adjusting the operation of said valve means until the position of said bellows means converges to said selected motion. 26. A robotic system comprising: a plurality of micromanipulative actuator assemblies, each comprising: a bellow means, responsive to a pressure conditions at an input port and drain port thereof, for generating a motion stimulus; a valve means, coupled to said bellows means, for operatively regulating the application of a pressure to at least one of the input and drain ports of said bellows means; a controller means for controlling the operation of said valve means; a common feed line connecting the input ports of all of said bellows means; and a common feed line connecting the drain ports of all of said bellows means. 27. In an endoscopic system including a robotic system for maneuvering an implement, said robotic system comprising: a plurality of micromanipulative actuator assemblies, each comprising: bellows means, responsive to a pressure conditions at an input port and drain port thereof, for generating a motion stimulus; valve means, coupled to said bellows means, for operatively regulating the application of a pressure to at least one of the input and drain ports of said bellows means; controller means for controlling the operation of said valve means; a common feed line connecting the input ports of all of said bellows means; and a common feed line connecting the drain ports of all of said bellows means. 28. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the base comprises silicon. 29. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein the base comprises silicon. 30. The robotic system as recited in claim 15, wherein the robotic movable member is a phalanx of a robotic finger. 31. The robotic system as recited in claim 30, wherein the integrated actuator assembly is located within the robotic finger. 32. A robotic finger comprising: at least one joint at which two pivotable finger members are pivotably connected; and an integrated actuator assembly within the robotic finger coupled to one of the pivotable finger members to pivot the pivotable finger members relative to each other, said integrated actuator assembly comprising: a base; bellows means, at least partially integrally coupled to said base and responsive to a pressure condition at an input port of said bellows means, for generating a motion stimulus; valve means, at least partially formed within said base and integrally coupled to said bellows means, for operatively regulating the application of pressure to the input port of said bellows means; and electronic controller means, at least partially formed within said base, for controlling the operation of said valve means. 33. An integrated apparatus for generating a motion stimulus, said apparatus comprising: bellows means, responsive to a pressure condition at an input port thereof, for generating a motion stimulus; pressure generation means for generating pressure at said input port, said pressure generation means comprising source means for generating a flow of pressurized fluid and vacuum means for generating a vacuum pressure; valve means, integrally coupled to said bellows means, for operatively regulating the application of said pressure at the input port of said bellows means, said valve means comprising: a first selectively operable micromachined valve adapted to admit the flow of pressurized fluid from said source means into said bellows means, and a second selectively operable micromachined valve coupled to said vacuum means and adapted to withdraw pressure from said bellows means; and integral controller means for controlling the operation of said valve means. 34. An integrated apparatus for generating a motion stimulus, said apparatus comprising: bellows means, responsive to a pressure condition at an input port thereof, for generating a motion stimulus; pressure generation means for generating pressure at said input port, said pressure generation means comprising source means for generating a flow of pressurized fluid and vacuum means for generating a vacuum pressure; valve means, integrally coupled to said bellows means, for operatively regulating the application of said pressure at the input port of said bellows means, said valve means comprising a micromachined valve adapted to be selectively coupled to said source means for admitting the flow of pressurized fluid from said source means into said bellows means, or coupled to said vacuum means for withdrawing pressurized fluid from said bellows means; and integral controller means for controlling the operation of said valve means. 35. In a robotic system including a configuration of robotic fingers, an integrated actuator assembly coupled to said robotic fingers for displacing said robotic fingers, said assembly comprising: bellows means for generating a motion stimulus as pressurized fluid flows through an input port thereof; valve means, in fluid communication with the input port of said bellows means, for controllably regulating the fluid flow through the input port of said bellows means, said valve means comprising a configuration of programmable micromachined valves; and controller means, coupled to said valve means, for controlling the operation of said valve means. 36. In a robotic system including a configuration of robotic fingers, an integrated actuator assembly coupled to said robotic fingers for displacing said robotic fingers, said assembly comprising: bellows means for generating a motion stimulus as pressurized fluid flows through an input port thereof; valve means, in fluid communication with the input port of said bellows means, for controllably regulating the fluid flow through the input port of said bellows means; controller means, coupled to said valve means, for controlling the operation of said valve means, said controller means comprising a microprocessor; connector means adapted to receive data signals indicating a requested operating state of said bellows means and to receive power signals; receiver means, coupled to said connector means, for distributing said power signals as required by electrical requirements of said actuator assembly, and forwarding said data signals to said microprocessor, said microprocessor being responsive to said data signals for generating a command signal that effects the appropriate operation of said valve means consistent with the requested operating state of said bellows means; and memory means, coupled to said microprocessor and including a plurality of position commands each indexed to an operating state of said bellows means, for providing as said command signal the position command corresponding to said requested operating state. 