A heated cover for a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance. The cover is heated to a temperature above the temperature of the substance so as to prevent condensation of vapor evaporated from the substance. A device for placing and removing the cover with respect to the receptacle is designed in connection with a temperature-controlled heating/cooling plate which controls the temperature of the contents of the receptacle.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated laboratory workstation comprising: a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance; a robotic means for performing a sequence of laboratory operations with respect to the receptacle; means for heating the vaporizable substance, including the receptacle; a cover for covering the receptacle, disposed in opposing relation thereto; means for effecting temperature control of the cover, wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover maintains the temperature of the cover above the temperature of the substance; and means for moving the cover relative to the receptacle to cooperatively engage the cover and the receptacle, including a means for positioning the cover over the receptacle. 2. The workstation as in claim 1 wherein the cover is pivotally supported with respect to the receptacle. 3. The workstation as in claim 1 further comprising means for effecting temperature control of the substance. 4. The workstation as in claim 3 wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover maintains the temperature of the cover 5.degree. Celsius above the temperature of the substance. 5. The workstation as in claim 1 wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover actively controls the temperature of the cover in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 6. The workstation as in claim 1 wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover controls the temperature of the cover to be at a substantially fixed given temperature of 5.degree. Celsius above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 7. The workstation as in claim 1 wherein said receptacle comprises of a plurality of grouped together individual wells. 8. The workstation as in claim 7 wherein said plurality of individual wells are integrally formed into a common substrate. 9. An automated laboratory workstation comprising: a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance; a robotic means for performing a sequence of laboratory operations with respect to the receptacle; a cover for covering the receptacle to reduce evaporative loss of the substance contained therein; means for effecting temperature control of the cover, wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover maintains the temperature of the cover above the temperature of the substance; means for moving the cover relative to the receptacle to cooperatively engage the cover and the receptacle, including a means for positioning the cover over the receptacle; and means for effecting temperature control of the receptacle. 10. The workstation as in claim 9 wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover actively controls the temperature of the cover in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 11. The workstation as in claim 9 wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the cover controls the temperature of the cover to be at a substantially fixed given temperature of 5.degree. Celsius above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 12. The workstation as in claim 9 wherein the cover defines a space between an underside of the cover and the substance, the distance therebetween sufficient to create a temperature gradient, thereby reducing the amount of condensation from collecting on the underside. 13. An automated laboratory workstation comprising: a receptacle containing a vaporizable substance; a robotic means for performing a sequence of laboratory operations with respect to the receptacle; a cover for covering the receptacle to reduce evaporative loss of the vaporizable substance contained therein, the cover including means for effecting temperature control of the cover; means for effecting temperature control of the receptacle; control means for controlling the operations of the robotic means, said means for effecting temperature control of the receptacle and said means for effecting temperature control of the cover, wherein the temperature of the cover is maintained above the temperature of the substance and in accordance with a specified temperature gradient; and means for moving the cover relative to the receptacle comprising means for positioning the cover over the receptacle. 14. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 13 wherein the robotic means comprises a means for transferring the substance. 15. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 14 wherein the means for transferring the substance comprises a pipet. 16. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 13 wherein the temperature of the cover is maintained 5.degree. Celsius above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 17. The workstation as in claim 13 wherein said control means actively controls the temperature of the cover in accordance with a specified temperature profile. 18. The workstation as in claim 13 wherein the control means controls the temperature of the cover to be at a substantially fixed given temperature of 5.degree. Celsius above the temperature of the substance in the receptacle. 19. The workstation as in claim 13 wherein the moving means moves the cover relative to the receptacle to cooperatively engage the lid therewith, defining a space between an underside of the cover and the substance, the space having a distance therebetween so as to create said temperature gradient, thereby reducing condensation from collecting on the underside. 20. The workstation as in claim 13 wherein the receptacle includes the means for effecting temperature control of the receptacle to heat the vaporizable substance contained therein. 21. The workstation as in claim 13 wherein the means for effecting temperature control of the receptacle comprises a temperature controlled base configured to be positioned against the receptacle to effect temperature control. 