A CVD reactor includes separate reaction and pressure chambers, where the reaction chamber is contained within and isolates reactant gases from the pressure chamber. The reactor also includes a gas injection system which injects process gas(es) into the reaction chamber in a somewhat vertical direction through a bottom surface of the reaction chamber. The gas injection system injects hydrogen or other appropriate gas in a vertical direction through the bottom surface of the reaction chamber. The flow of hydrogen or other appropriate gas is intermediate the flow of the process gas(es) and a surface of the reaction chamber, thereby re-directing the process gas flow parallel to the top surface of a wafer therein. In this manner, the reaction chamber does not require a long entry length for the process gas(es). This flow of hydrogen or other suitable gas also minimizes undesirable deposition on the surface of the reaction chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gas injection system for injecting one or more process gases into a reaction chamber within which a wafer is processed, said gas injection system comprising: one or more first slots formed in a bottom surface of said reaction chamber, said bottom surface being substantially parallel to a top surface of said wafer; and one or more second slots formed in a bottom surface of said reaction chamber, said one or more second slots being positioned intermediate said one or more first slots and a side wall of said reaction chamber, wherein a first gas is injected in a vertical direction into said reaction chamber via said one or more second slots and said one or more process gases are injected into said reaction chamber through said one or more first slots, said first gas serving to re-direct said one or more process gases into a flow pattern substantially parallel to said top surface of said wafer. 2. The gas injection system of claim 1 further comprising one or more third slots formed within each of said one or more first slots for diffusing said one or more process gases before said one or more process gases enter into said reaction chamber. 