A novel rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor processes a multiplicity of wafers or a single large wafer, e.g., 200 mm (8 inches), 250 mm (10 inches), 300 mm (12 inches) diameter wafers, using either a single or dual heat source. The wafers or wafer are mounted on a rotatable susceptor supported by a susceptor support. A susceptor position control rotates the wafers during processing and raises and lowers the susceptor to various positions for loading and processing of wafers. A heat controller controls either a single heat source or a dual heat source that heats the wafers to a substantially uniform temperature during processing. A gas flow controller regulates flow of gases into the reaction chamber. Instead of the second heat source, a passive heat distribution is used, in one embodiment, to achieve a substantially uniform temperature throughout the wafers. Further, a novel susceptor is used that includes a silicon carbide cloth enclosed in quartz.
Claims We claim: 1. A semiconductor processing structure, comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the rotatable susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon; a resistance heater mounted in said reaction chamber in proximity to said second surface of said rotatable susceptor; an insulated electrical supply line connected to said resistance heater wherein insulation on said insulated electrical supply line has a temperature rating that is less than a reaction chamber operating temperature; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates, wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that the semiconductor processing structure is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 2. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 1 further comprising: an annular shaft having: a first end fixedly attached to said resistance heater; a second end; and a wall defining a channel extending, in a direction perpendicular to said first and second ends, from said second end to said first end through said wall; wherein said second end of said shaft is exterior to said reaction chamber; and said insulated electrical supply line passes through said channel to said resistance heater, thereby thermally insulating said insulated electrical supply line from said reaction chamber operating temperature. 3. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 2 further comprising a screw, wherein said screw connects said insulated electrical supply line to said resistance heater. 4. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 3 wherein said screw comprises a molybdenum screw. 5. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 2 wherein said annular shaft is a graphite annular shaft. 6. A semiconductor processing structure comprising: a reaction chamber; a quartz rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the quartz rotatable susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates, wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that the semiconductor processing structure is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor and further wherein said first surface of said quartz rotatable susceptor is bead-blasted. 7. A semiconductor processing structure comprising: a reaction chamber; a quartz rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the quartz rotatable susceptor having first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates, wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that the semiconductor processing structure is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor and further wherein said second surface of said quartz rotatable susceptor is flame-polished. 8. A semiconductor processing structure comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, wherein the rotatable susceptor includes a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon and further wherein said rotatable susceptor includes a pocket; a silicon carbide cloth placed in said pocket; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates, wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that the semiconductor processing structure is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 9. A semiconductor processing structure comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber wherein the rotatable susceptor includes a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon and further wherein said rotatable susceptor includes a pocket having a depth; an insert having an outer edge surface and a maximum dimension less than a maximum dimension of said pocket so that upon placement of said insert into said pocket, a uniform recess is formed between said outer edge of said insert and an outer edge of said pocket; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates, wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that the semiconductor processing structure is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 10. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 9 further comprising a substrate surround ring mounted in said recess. 11. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 9 wherein said insert has a depth less than said depth of said pocket. 12. A semiconductor processing structure comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the rotatable susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon; a passive heat distribution structure mounted in said reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable susceptor wherein said passive heat distribution structure further comprises silicon carbide cloth contained within a quartz structure; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates, wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said one of (i) said single substrate and (ii) said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that the semiconductor processing structure is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 13. The semiconductor processing structure of any one of claims 6, 7, 8, 9, or 12 further comprising a plurality of gas jets mounted in said reaction chamber. 14. The semiconductor processing structure of any one of claims 6, 7, 8, 9, or 12 further comprising a center gas injection head. 15. The semiconductor processing structure of any one of claims 6, 7, 8, 9, or 12 wherein said reaction chamber is bounded by vessel having a water-cooled side wall, a water-cooled bottom wall, and a forced-air-cooled top wall. 16. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 15 wherein said forced-air-cooled top wall further comprises a circular domed-shaped quartz wall. 17. The semiconductor processing structure of any one of claims 6, 7, 8, 9, or 12 wherein said radiant heat source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks wherein each lamp bank includes at least one lamp. 18. The semiconductor processing structure of claim 17 wherein said at least one lamp comprises a quartz-halogen lamp. 19. A reactor for processing a plurality of substrates comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting said plurality of substrates thereon; a resistance heater mounted in said reaction chamber in proximity to said second surface of said rotatable susceptor; an insulated electrical supply line connected to said resistance heater wherein insulation on said insulated electrical supply line has a temperature rating that is less than a reaction chamber operating temperature; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that said reactor for processing a plurality of substrates is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 20. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 19 further comprising: an annular shaft having: a first end fixedly attached to said resistance heater; a second end; and a wall having a channel extending, in a direction perpendicular to said ends, from said second end to said first end through said wall; wherein said second end of said shaft is exterior to said reaction chamber; and said insulated electrical supply line passes through said channel to said resistance heater thereby thermally insulating said insulated electrical supply line from said reaction chamber operating temperature. 21. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 20 further comprising a screw wherein said screw connects said insulated electrical supply line to said resistance heater. 22. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 21 wherein said screw comprises a molybdenum screw. 23. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 20 wherein said annular shaft is a graphite annular shaft. 24. A reactor for processing a plurality of substrates comprising: a reaction chamber; a quartz rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the quartz rotatable susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that said reactor for processing said plurality of substrates is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor and further wherein said first surface of said quartz rotatable susceptor is bead-blasted. 25. A reactor for processing a plurality of substrates comprising: a reaction chamber; a quartz rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the quartz rotatable susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that said reactor for processing said plurality of substrates is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor and further wherein said second surface of said quartz rotatable susceptor is flame-polished. 26. A reactor for processing a plurality of substrates comprising; a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, wherein the rotatable susceptor includes a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon, and further wherein said rotatable susceptor includes a plurality of pockets; silicon carbide cloth wherein said silicon carbide cloth is placed in each of said plurality of pockets; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that said reactor for processing said plurality of substrates is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 27. A reactor for processing a plurality of substrates comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, wherein the rotatable susceptor includes a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon, and further wherein said rotatable susceptor includes a plurality of pockets wherein each of said pockets has a depth; an insert having an outer edge surface and a maximum dimension less than a maximum dimension of one of said pockets so that upon placement of said insert into said one of said pockets, a uniform recess is formed between said outer edge of said insert and an outer edge of said one of said pockets; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that said reactor for processing said plurality of substrates is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 28. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 27 further comprising a substrate surround ring mounted in said recess. 29. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 27 wherein said insert has a depth less than said depth of said pocket. 30. A reactor for processing a plurality of substrates comprising: a reaction chamber; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, the quartz rotatable susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting a plurality of substrates thereon; a passive heat distribution structure mounted in said reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable susceptor wherein said passive heat distribution structure further comprises silicon carbide cloth contained within a quartz structure; and a radiant heat source mounted outside said reaction chamber so that radiant heat from said radiant heat source directly heats said plurality of substrates wherein said radiant heat source raises the temperature of said plurality of substrates to a substantially uniform processing temperature in a time period such that said reactor for processing said plurality of substrates is characterized as a rapid thermal process reactor. 31. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in any one of claims 21, 25, 26, 27, or 30 further comprising a plurality of gas jets mounted in said reaction chamber. 32. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in any one of claims 24, 25, 26, 27, or 30 further comprising a center gas injection head. 33. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in any one of claims 24, 25, 26, 27, or 30 wherein said reaction chamber is bounded by vessel having a water-cooled side wall, a water-cooled bottom wall, and a forced-air-cooled top wall. 34. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 33 wherein said forced-air-cooled top wall further comprises a circular domed-shaped quartz wall. 35. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in any one of claims 24, 25, 26, 27, or 30 wherein said radiant heat source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks wherein each lamp bank includes at least one lamp. 36. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 35 wherein one of said plurality of lamp banks includes 7 lamps. 37. The reactor for processing a plurality of substrates as in claim 35 wherein said plurality of lamp banks raise the temperature of each substrate in said plurality of substrates at a rate of about 20.degree. C. per second. 38. The reactor for processing a plurality of semiconductor wafers as in claim 35 wherein said at least one lamp comprises a quartz-halogen lamp. 39. A rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a reaction chamber having a water-cooled cylindrical side wall, a forced-air-cooled quartz top wall, and a circular water-cooled bottom wall; a radiant heat source mounted external to said reaction chamber and over said forced-air-cooled quartz top wall; a rotatable susceptor mounted within the reaction chamber, and having a first surface and a second surface opposite thereto, the first surface adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon; a passive heat distribution structure mounted in said reaction chamber in proximity of said second surface of said rotatable susceptor; a susceptor support having a first end supporting said rotatable susceptor and a second end outside said reaction chamber; an annular shaft having: a wall defining a central cylindrical hole; a first end fixedly attached to said passive heat distribution structure; and a second end; wherein said second end of said shaft is exterior to said reaction chamber; and said susceptor support extends through said central cylindrical hole; and a susceptor positioning mechanism coupled to said annular shaft and to said susceptor support, wherein said susceptor positioning mechanism moves said annular shaft and said susceptor support in a first direction, thereby moving said rotatable susceptor in said first direction. 40. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 38 wherein said rotatable susceptor is a quartz rotatable susceptor. 41. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 40 wherein said first surface of said quartz rotatable susceptor is bead-blasted. 42. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 40 wherein said second surface of said quartz rotatable susceptor is flame-polished. 43. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 38 wherein said rotatable susceptor has a center and further includes a pocket having a center. 44. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 43 where said center of said pocket is coincident with said center of said rotatable susceptor. 45. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 43 where said center of said pocket is removed from said center of said rotatable susceptor. 46. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 43 further comprising silicon carbide cloth wherein said silicon carbide cloth is placed in said pocket. 47. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 43 wherein said pocket has a depth; and said rapid thermal process reactor further comprises an insert having an outer edge surface and a maximum dimension less than a maximum dimension of said pocket so that upon placement of said insert into said pocket, a uniform recess is formed between said outer edge of said insert and an outer edge of said pocket. 48. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 47 further comprising a substrate surround ring mounted in said recess. 49. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 48, wherein said insert has a depth less than said depth of said pocket. 50. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 38 wherein said passive heat distribution structure further comprises silicon carbide cloth contained within a quartz structure. 51. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 39 further comprising a plurality of gas jets mounted in said reaction chamber. 52. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 39 further comprising a center gas injection head. 53. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 39 wherein said forced-air-cooled quartz top wall further comprises a circular domed-shaped quartz wall. 54. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 38 wherein said radiant heat source further comprises a plurality of lamp banks wherein each lamp bank includes at least one lamp. 55. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 54 wherein said at least one lamp comprises a quartz-halogen lamp. 56. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 54 wherein one of said plurality of lamp banks includes 7 lamps. 57. The rapid thermal process reactor of claim 39 wherein said annular shaft is a graphite annular shaft. 58. A reactor for processing substrates comprising: a reaction chamber vessel; a table mounted about said reaction chamber vessel wherein said table has a top surface; a shell; a track extending in a first direction and rigidly affixed to said table; a coupler movably connected to said track and having a plurality of connectors selectively connectable to and disconnectable from said shell; wherein as said coupler is moved along said track, said shell is moved in a first direction from a first position contacting said table top surface to a second position removed from said table top surface; and upon disconnecting one of said plurality of connectors from said shell when said shell is in said second position, said shell is movable in a second direction substantially perpendicular to said first direction, thereby allowing access, unrestricted by said shell, to said reaction chamber vessel. 59. A reactor as in claim 58 wherein: said coupler further comprises a yoke movably connected to said track and having first and second bosses, and third and fourth bosses, wherein: said first and second bosses each have a hole formed therein and a center of said holes of said first and second bosses are on the same axis; and said third and fourth bosses each have a hole formed therein and a center of said holes of said third and fourth bosses are on the same axis; said shell further comprises: a first boss having a hole extending therethrough; and a second boss having a hole extending therethrough; a first pin extending through said hole of said first boss of said yoke, said hole of said first boss of said shell, and said hole of said second boss of said yoke wherein said first pin connects said yoke to said shell; and a second pin extending through said hole of said third boss of said yoke, said hole of said second boss of said shell, and said hole of said fourth boss of said yoke wherein said second pin connects said yoke to said shell; and further wherein upon removing said first pin, the shell can be moved in the second direction. 60. A susceptor for a rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a quartz support having a center, a first surface, and a second surface opposite to said first surface wherein said first surface includes a pocket having a center; and silicon carbide cloth wherein said silicon carbide cloth is placed in said pocket. 61. The susceptor of claim 60 wherein said second surface is flame-polished. 62. The susceptor of claim 60 wherein said center of said quartz support is coincident with said center of said pocket. 63. The susceptor of claim 60 wherein said center of said quartz support is offset from said center of said pocket. 64. The susceptor of claim 60 wherein said pocket has a depth; and said susceptor further comprises an insert having an outer edge surface and a maximum dimension less than a maximum dimension of said pocket so that upon placement of said insert into said pocket, a uniform recess is formed between said outer edge of said insert and an outer edge of said pocket. 65. The susceptor of claim 64 further comprising a substrate surround ring mounted in said recess. 66. The susceptor of claim 64 wherein said circular insert has a depth less than said depth of said pocket. 67. The susceptor of claim 60 wherein said first surface is bead-blasted. 68. An apparatus for a rapid thermal process reactor comprising: a quartz susceptor having a first surface and a second surface opposite to said first surface, wherein said first surface is adapted for mounting one of (i) a single substrate and (ii) a plurality of substrates thereon; and a passive heat distribution structure mounted in proximity of said second surface of said quarts susceptor. 69. The apparatus of claim 68 wherein said passive heat distribution structure further comprises silicon carbide cloth contained within a quartz structure. 70. In a rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor, a method for etching silicon deposits from a susceptor and quartz parts comprising: flowing a gas having a predetermined percentage of HCL though said RTP reactor; and reducing coolant flow to a wall of said RTP reactor so that the wall temperature is higher than a normal operating wall temperature for a silicon deposition process. 71. In a rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor, a method for etching silicon deposits from a susceptor and quartz parts as in claim 70 wherein flowing said gas is performed for a time period in the range of about 3 minutes to about 20 minutes. 72. In a rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor, a method for etching silicon deposits from a susceptor and quartz parts as in claim 70 further comprising: maintaining a reaction chamber of said RTP reactor in a temperature range from about 1150.degree. C. to about 1200.degree. C. 73. In a rapid thermal process (RTP) reactor, a method for etching silicon deposits from a susceptor and quartz parts as in claim 70 wherein said predetermined percentage of HCl is at least 90%. 