A vertical positioner comprises a rigid frame. A rigid vertically extending structure extends upwardly from a base to its upper end portion. A generally horizontal flange forms the structure upper end portion. It has a central opening and at least two peripheral openings. A vertically movable structure is telescopically mounted to the frame. It comprises an upper plate located above the flange. A lower generally parallel plate is located below the flange. A pair of parallel rods extend between the plates and pass through flange bearings. A central tube is connected between the lower and upper plates and passes through the flange via bearings. A motor is supported rigidly relative to the base for motivating relative vertical motion.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A vertical positioner, comprising: a rigid frame comprising: a base; a rigid vertically extending structure having a structure upper end portion, the structure extending upwardly in a generally orthogonal manner from base to the structure upper end portion; and a flange attached to the structure upper end portion, the flange being generally horizontally aligned, the flange having a central opening and at least two peripheral openings; central opening bearing means adjacent the central opening defining a central bearing region; peripheral opening bearing means adjacent each of the peripheral openings defining respective peripheral bearing regions; a vertically movable structure telescopically mounted to the rigid frame, comprising: an upper plate located above the flange; a lower plate located below the flange generally parallel to the upper plate; a pair of linearly extending generally parallel members, each of the members having a respective upper end portion and a respective lower end portion, each of the members extending from the upper plate to the lower plate, the members each being generally orthogonal relative to the plates and passing through the respective peripheral bearing in bearing contact therewith; a central tube connected between the lower plate and the upper plate in orthogonal relation thereto and passing through the central bearing region in bearing contact therewith; motor means supported rigidly relative to the base for motivating the linearly extending members selectively upwardly and downwardly relative to the base. 2. A vertical positioner as set forth in claim 1, wherein the connection of the motor means to motivate the linearly extending members comprises: lead screw means supported between the base and the flange and being rotatable relative thereto, the lead screw means being located within the central tube and adapted to operate in such a manner that rotation of the lead screw means imparts linear motion upwardly and downwardly to the central tube; and belt means driven by the motor means and being engaged to rotate the lead screw means. 3. A vertical positioner as set forth in claim 2, further including: an article positioning apparatus comprising a first link having a proximal end portion coaxial with the axis of the tube; a second link pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of the first link and an end effector pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of the second link, the pivotal mountings all being about vertical axes. 