An actively controlled, pneumatically-actuated constant force device (CFD) which may be fixed to a stationary mount or moved in three-dimensional space proximate a work surface. The device applies substantially constant force from an actuator, through a linkage, to a tool in contact with a work surface, e.g., a drilling, grinding or finishing tool, or a laminating roller. A processor provides closed-loop control of estimated tool force applied to the work surface, regardless of tool orientation. CFD compliance and response time may be altered by adjustment of gas pressures in a pneumatic cylinder. Active control of estimated tool force includes processing of information on actuator force, actuator orientation, tool and linkage weight, and actuator motion, as well as work surface irregularities. The device automatically compensates for changes in desired (reference) tool force by adjusting gas pressures entering a pneumatic force generator to bring estimated applied tool force into substantial agreement with the reference tool force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus to apply estimated tool force substantially equal to a reference tool force on a workpiece surface, comprising: an actuator for exerting force on the tool; a tool holder coupled to said actuator for holding the tool; accelerometer means coupled to said actuator for measuring tool force acceleration effects; load cell means coupled to said actuator and having a load cell means output for measuring force applied by said actuator; a low-pass filter coupled to said load cell means for filtering said load cell output; a processor coupled to said low-pass filter and said accelerometer means, said processor calculating the estimated tool force, including force applied by said actuator and said actuator acceleration effects; a memory for storing processor programs and the reference tool force, said memory being coupled to said processor; a processor interface for entering the reference tool force and processor programs into said processor, said processor interface being coupled to said processor; and actuator force control means coupled to said actuator for rendering the estimated tool force substantially equal to the reference tool force on a workpiece surface under control of said processor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator comprises a double acting pneumatic cylinder. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator comprises two single-acting pneumatic cylinders linked in an assembly to be capable of exerting force as a double acting pneumatic cylinder. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the tool holder comprises a motor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein accelerometer means comprises a three-axis set of accelerometers. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein accelerometer means comprises an inclinometer. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the load cell means comprises a piezoelectric sensor. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the low pass filter has a half-power point is about 10 Hz. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein actuator force control means comprises signal-controlled pressure regulators. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein actuator force control means comprises servo valves. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor comprises a programmable digital computer. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor comprises an analog computer. 13. An apparatus positioned by a robot using robot position parameters proximate to a workpiece surface, the apparatus to apply estimated tool force substantially equal to a reference tool force on the workpiece surface, comprising: an actuator for exerting force on the tool, said actuator having a range of motion; a tool holder coupled to said actuator for holding the tool; accelerometer means coupled to said actuator for measuring tool force acceleration effects; potentiometer means coupled to said actuator and the tool holder, said potentiometer means for maintaining said actuator substantially centered within said range of motion; load cell means coupled to said actuator and having a load cell means output for measuring force applied by said actuator; a low-pass filter coupled to said load cell means for filtering said load cell output; a processor coupled to said low-pass filter, said potentiometer means and said accelerometer means, said processor calculating the estimated tool force, including force applied by said actuator and said actuator acceleration effects; a memory for storing processor programs for controlling operation of said processor, and the reference tool force, said memory being coupled to said processor; a processor interface for entering the reference tool force and robot position parameters into said processor; and actuator force control means coupled to said actuator for rendering the estimated tool force substantially equal to the reference tool force on a workpiece surface under control of said processor. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the actuator comprises a double acting pneumatic cylinder. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the actuator comprises two single-acting pneumatic cylinders linked in an assembly to be capable of exerting force as a double acting pneumatic cylinder. 16. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the tool holder comprises a motor. 17. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein accelerometer means comprises a three-axis set of accelerometers. 18. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein accelerometer means comprises an inclinometer. 19. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein accelerometer means comprises acceleration calculated from robot position parameters. 20. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein potentiometer means comprises a linear variable differential transformer. 21. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the load cell means comprises a piezoelectric sensor. 22. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the low pass filter has a half-power point at about 10 Hz. 23. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein actuator force control means comprises pressure regulators. 24. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein actuator force control means comprises servo valves. 25. An apparatus positioned by a robot using robot position parameters proximate to a workpiece surface, the apparatus to apply estimated tool force substantially equal to a reference tool force on the workpiece surface, comprising: a double-acting pneumatic actuator for exerting force on the tool, said actuator having a first gas chamber and a second gas chamber, a movement axis, and a range of motion; a tool holder coupled to said actuator for holding the tool, said tool holder being capable of movement substantially parallel to said movement axis; accelerometer means coupled to said actuator for measuring a tool force acceleration component; potentiometer means coupled to said actuator and the tool, said potentiometer means for locating said actuator within said range of motion; load cell means coupled to said actuator and having a load cell means output for measuring force applied by said actuator; a low-pass filter coupled to said load cell means for filtering said load cell output; a processor coupled to said low-pass filter, said potentiometer means and said accelerometer means, said processor calculating the estimated tool force, including force applied by said actuator and said actuator acceleration effects; a memory for storing processor programs for controlling operation of said processor, and the reference tool force, said memory being coupled to said processor; a processor interface for entering the reference tool force and robot position parameters into said processor; and actuator force control means coupled to said first and second gas chambers for rendering the estimated tool force substantially equal to the reference tool force on a workpiece surface under control of said processor. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the tool holder comprises a motor. 27. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein accelerometer means comprises a three-axis set of accelerometers. 28. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein accelerometer means comprises an inclinometer. 29. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein accelerometer means comprises acceleration calculated from robot position parameters. 30. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein potentiometer means comprises a linear variable differential transformer. 31. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the load cell means comprises a piezoelectric sensor. 32. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the low pass filter characteristic half-power point is about 10 Hz. 33. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein processor programs further comprise programs to control gas flow to said second gas chamber. 34. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein processor programs further comprise proportional-integral-derivative control programs. 35. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the second side control loop program is a function of the reference tool force and said tool force acceleration component. 36. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein actuator force control means comprises pressure regulators. 37. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein actuator force control means comprises servo valves. 38. A method of applying an estimated tool force substantially equal to a reference tool force at a workpiece surface, comprising: providing an actuator for applying an actuator component of tool force through a mechanical linkage, said actuator having a first side input and an opposite-acting second side input; estimating a tool force acceleration component due to acceleration of said actuator; estimating a tool force friction component due to friction in said mechanical linkage; measuring actuator force applied by said actuator; low-pass filtering said actuator force; estimating actual tool force based on said tool force acceleration component, said tool force friction component, and said filtered actuator force; comparing said estimated actual tool force with the reference tool force to obtain an error signal; producing said first side actuator input by processing said error signal through a proportional-integral-derivative controller; producing said second side actuator input by combining the the reference tool force and the tool force acceleration component; and applying said first and second side actuator inputs to said actuator to obtain said estimated actual tool force substantially equal to the reference tool force. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein said actuator is a double-acting pneumatic cylinder. 40. The method of claim 38 wherein said actuator is hydraulic. 41. The method of claim 38 wherein said actuator is electromagnetic. 42. The method of claim 38 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation of rate-of-change of position of said actuator. 43. The method of claim 38 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation based on inclinometer output, said inclinometer being coupled to said actuator. 44. The method of claim 38 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation based on three-axis accelerometer output, said accelerometer being coupled to said actuator. 45. The method of claim 38 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation based on single-axis accelerometer output, said accelerometer being coupled to said actuator. 46. The method of claim 38 wherein said low pass filtering is with a filter having a half-power point between about 1 and 100 Hz. 47. The method of claim 38 wherein said low pass filtering is with a filter having a half-power point about 10 Hz. 48. A method of using an actuator controlled by first side and second side signals, the actuator acting through a linkage to a tool to apply an estimated actual tool force substantially equal to a reference tool force at a workpiece surface, comprising: estimating a tool force acceleration component due to acceleration of said actuator; estimating a tool force friction component due to friction in the linkage from actuator to tool; measuring actuator force applied by said actuator; low-pass filtering said actuator force with a filter having a half-power point between about 1 and 100 Hz; estimating actual tool force based on said tool force acceleration component, said tool force friction component, and said filtered actuator force; comparing said estimated actual tool force with the reference tool force to obtain an error signal; processing said error signal through a proportional-integral-derivative controller to form the first side signal; calculating the second side signal using a second side equation which includes the reference tool force and said tool force acceleration component as terms; and combining the first side and second side signals to control the actuator to apply through the linkage an estimated actual tool force substantially equal to the reference tool force. 49. The method of claim 48 wherein said tool friction component includes friction in the actuator. 50. The method of claim 48 wherein said low-pass filtering is with a filter having a half-power point about 10 Hz. 51. The method of claim 48 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation of rate-of-change of position of the actuator. 52. The method of claim 48 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by an inclinometer coupled to the actuator. 53. The method of claim 48 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation based on three-axis accelerometer output, said accelerometer being coupled to the actuator. 54. The method of claim 48 wherein said tool force acceleration component is estimated by calculation based on single-axis accelerometer output, said accelerometer being coupled to the actuator. 55. The method of claim 48 wherein said second side equation is linear. 56. The method of claim 48 wherein said second side equation contains nonlinear terms. 