Method of separating a component of a liquid from other components by immobilizing the component to suspended magnetic particles in a vessel, immersing a magnetic device into the vessel while the device is separated from the liquid by means of a protective sleeve made of a non-magnetic material. Then the non-immobilized components are removed. The invention also addresses a device suitable for implementing this method. With said method and device, resuspension is achieved in a simple and efficient manner.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of separating a first component of a liquid from other components in the liquid utilizing magnetic particles, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a vessel; (b) adding the liquid and a quantity of magnetic particles therein to form a suspension of the magnetic particles and the liquid within said vessel; (c) immobilizing the first component on the suspended magnetic particles in the vessel; (d) immersing a magnetic device into the suspension contained in the vessel, while separating the device from the suspension by means of a protective sleeve which is made of a non-magnetic material, to apply a magnetic field to the suspension to adhere the magnetic particles having the first component immobilized thereon to the protective sleeve, and thereafter (e) separating the other components from the immobilized first component by removing the liquid containing the other components from the vessel while maintaining the protective sleeve with the magnetic particles having the first component immobilized thereon adhering to the protective sleeve within the vessel. 2. Method of claim 1, wherein in step (e) the liquid containing the non-immobilized components is removed from the vessel through bores in a bottom wall of the vessel. 3. Method of claim 1, further comprising the step of withdrawing the protective sleeve from the vessel with the magnetic particles adhered to the protective sleeve and with said first component immobilized on the magnetic particles after step (e). 4. Method of claim 2, wherein the magnetic device includes a longitudinal axis and a plurality of permanent magnets or electromagnets stacked along said axis, wherein said magnets define magnetic poles which alternate in polarity in a direction parallel to said axis. 5. Method of claim 1, wherein the first component is cells. 6. Method of claim 1, wherein the first component is nucleic acids. 7. Method of claim 1, further comprising the step of adding a wash liquid to the vessel after step (e), and re-suspending the magnetic particles with the first component immobilized thereon in said wash liquid to wash said magnetic particles and said first component. 8. Method of claim 7, wherein said step of re-suspending includes the step of rotating and/or lifting the magnetic device with respect to said vessel . 