A robotic assembly (20) is provided which is adapted to traverse the surface of a member (138) for inspection and/or work on or about the surface of the member (138). The preferred assembly (20) includes two or more robots (10a-10c) spaced about the body (138) with a tether assembly (140) interconnecting the robots (10a-10c) in order to hold the latter in tractive engagement with the surface of the body (138). Each of the robots (10a-10c) includes rotatable traction wheel assemblies (16) which are independently controllable through respective drive motors (86), as well as independently controllable takeup reels (98) for adjusting the tension of the tether assembly (140). Each robot (10a-10c) preferably includes an elongated body (12) having four corner-mounted wheel assemblies (16) pivotally secured thereto, and a carriage (14) pivotally coupled to the body for pivoting thereof independently of the wheel assemblies (16) and about an axis transverse to the wheel assembly pivot axes. An operating unit (18) such as an imaging device is carried by the carriage (14). A microprocessor-based control (22) allows precise, remote operation of the assembly (20).
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic assembly adapted to traverse a surface of a member and comprising: a mobile robot including a body equipped with spaced apart, shiftable traction elements for engaging said surface and moving said body therealong, and means for independent shifting movement of at least certain of the traction elements respectively; and means for holding said mobile robot with said elements in tractive engagement with said surface, including an elongated tether assembly operatively coupled with said body and extending about said member, and means for selectively adjusting the tension of said tether assembly in order to hold said traction elements against said surface. 2. The robotic assembly of claim 1, including a control assembly operatively coupled with said tension-adjusting means for controlling the tension of said tether assembly. 3. The robotic assembly of claim 2, said control assembly including means for controlling and independently shifting each of said traction elements. 4. The robotic assembly of claim 1, said assembly supporting an operating unit for carrying out a desired operation on or adjacent said member. 5. The robotic assembly of claim 4, said operating unit comprising an imaging device, said control assembly including structure for receiving imaging signals from said device. 6. The robotic assembly of claim 4, said control assembly including structure for delivery of operating power to said movement shifting means, said tension adjusting means and said operating unit. 7. The robotic assembly of claim 1, said traction elements comprising rotatable wheels, there being a separate drive motor operatively coupled to at least certain of said wheels. 8. The robotic assembly of claim 1, including a carriage pivotally coupled to said body, said carriage supporting said tension-adjusting means. 9. The robotic assembly of claim 1, there being a pair of spaced apart separate tether assemblies, and a corresponding tension adjusting means for each tether assembly and separately operable motive means coupled to each tension adjusting means respectively. 10. The robotic assembly of claim 1, including at least two mobile robots each adapted to engage an opposed surface of said member, said tether assembly extending between and interconnecting said mobile robots. 11. The robotic assembly of claim 1, including a drone device adapted to engage a surface of said member, said tether assembly operably holding said mobile robot and drone device in said tractive engagement. 12. The robotic assembly of claim 10, including first and second mobile robots each adapted to engage an opposed surface of said member, said tension adjusting means of each of said robots comprising a rotatable takeup reel supported by the robot body, said tether assembly comprising first and second elongated flexible tether strings each having a reel end and a coupling end, said first tether string having the reel end thereof coupled with the first robot reel and the coupling end thereof secured to the body of said second robot, said second tether string having the reel end thereof coupled with said second robot reel and the coupling end thereof secured to the body of the first robot. 13. The robotic assembly of claim 1, said traction elements being pivotally secured to said body for independent pivoting movement thereof relative to the body. 14. The robotic assembly of claim 1, said mobile robot including sealing structure for permitting operation thereof under water. 15. A mobile robot comprising: a body; a pair of spaced apart, shiftable traction elements adapted to engage a surface over which a robot is to traverse; means pivotally mounting said traction elements to said body for independent pivoting movement thereof relative to the body; means for independent shifting movement of said of the traction elements respectively; a carriage pivotally coupled to said body for pivoting thereof independently of the pivoting of said traction elements; and an operating unit supported on said carriage for carrying out a desired operation on or adjacent said surface. 16. The robot of claim 15, including a control assembly having means for controlling the independent shifting movement of each of said traction elements. 17. The robot of claim 16, said operating unit comprising an imaging device, said control assembly including structure for receiving imaging signals from said device. 18. The robot of claim 15, said traction elements comprising rotatable wheels, there being a separate drive motor operatively coupled to each of said wheels. 19. The robot of claim 15, said carriage being pivot about an axis transverse to the pivot axes of said traction elements. 20. The robot of claim 15, including a rotatable tether string reel supported by said body, and motive means for selective rotation of said reel. 21. A method of performing an operation on or adjacent a surface of an elongated member, said method comprising the steps of: placing at least one mobile robot in engagement with a surface region of said elongated member, said mobile robot including a body equipped with a pair of spaced apart, shiftable, surface-engaging traction elements; holding said mobile robot in tractive engagement with said surface region by a tether assembly operatively coupled with the mobile robot; and selectively and individually shifting the traction elements of said mobile robot and simultaneously adjusting the tension of said tether assembly for causing said robot to traverse said surface region. 22. The method of claim 21, said robot supporting an operating unit, said operating unit comprising an imaging device, said operating step comprising the step of generating an image of said surface areas or body during said traversal of said surface region. 23. The method of claim 21, said member being upright. 24. The method of claim 21, said member being a bridge-supporting column or pier. 25. The method of claim 21, there being at least a pair of said robots in engagement with spaced surface regions of said elongated member, each of said mobile robots including selectively and individually shiftable traction elements, said method comprising the step of selectively and individually shifting said traction elements of each robot. 26. The method of claim 21, said surface region of said elongated member being underwater. 