The present invention has a multi-station molding system formed having a upper housing segment and a lower housing segment which are interconnected by a plurality of elongate guide and support rails and a central support column. The upper and lower housing segments may optionally be formed of pie-shaped segments which are symmetrically spaced in an abutted, side-by-side orientation. The segments can be fabricated and/or mechanically linked as desired to provide two, three, four, five, six, or more work stations within the system. A plurality of independently movable platens are mounted between the upper and lower housing segments and are each affixed to a cylinder lift to reciprocate the movable platens toward and away from the upper housing segment. Each of the stations are provided with a mold, the male portion of which is typically affixed to the rotatable mold carrier that is attached to the upper housing segment and the female portion of which is typically affixed to the vertically movable platen. The upper housing segment is provided with a rotary table which rotates about the central column such that the plural injection molding units may be positioned at each one or selected ones of the stations to effect the injection molding process with selected molds. Each of the injection units may be provided with a different thermoplastic material and/or different color as desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A molding apparatus for forming a workpiece from a plurality of materials and colors, said molding apparatus comprising: a) a plurality of first and second mold portions, said first and second mold portions mating to define a corresponding plurality of mold cavities; b) a rotary plate to which said first mold portions are attached such that they rotate therewith among said second mold portions; c) an independent actuator attached to each of said second mold portions for selectively positioning said second mold portions in mating contact with said first mold portions and for positioning said second mold portions away from said first mold portions; d) a spring counterbalance attached to at least one of said second mold portions to compensate for the weight thereof; and e) wherein the use of independent actuators for each of said second mold portions facilitates the mating of each second portion to each first mold portion at pressures different from one another. 2. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said first mold portion comprises a male mold portion and said second mold portion comprises a female mold portion. 3. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein the workpiece remains attached to said male mold portion when said male and female mold portions separate. 4. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a platen actuator for increasing the force with which said first and second mold portions mate by applying force to a platen of each second mold portion, one of said independent actuators being associated with each platen. 5. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 4 wherein said platen actuator comprises: a) a triangular cylinder formed upon one of a platen and an associated actuator; b) a complimentary triangular piston formed upon the other of said platen and a corresponding actuator received within said triangular cylinder; and c) wherein said triangular piston provides stable support to said platen when said corresponding actuator is pressurized. 6. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein each of said actuators has an independently adjustable stroke. 7. A molding apparatus for forming a workpiece from a plurality of materials and colors, said molding apparatus comprising: a) a plurality of rotating first mold portions and non-rotating second mold portions, said first and second mold portions mating to define a corresponding plurality of mold cavities; b) a rotary plate to which said first mold portions are attached to facilitate rotation thereof among said non-rotating second mold portions; c) an independent actuator attached to each of said second mold portions for selectively positioning said second mold portions in mating contact with said first mold portions and for positioning said second mold portions away from said first mold portions; and d) wherein the use of independent actuators for each of said second mold portions facilitates the mating of each second mold portion to each first mold portion at different pressures from one another. 8. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said first mold portion comprises a male mold portion and said second mold portion comprises a female mold portion. 9. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein the workpiece remains attached to said male mold portion when said male and female mold portions separate. 10. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 7 further comprises a platen actuator for increasing the force with which said first and second mold portions mate by applying force to a platen of each second mold portion, one of said independent actuators being associated with each platen. 11. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein said platen actuator comprises: a) a triangular cylinder formed upon one of a platen and an associated actuator; b) a complimentary triangular piston formed upon the other of said platen and a corresponding actuator received within said triangular cylinder; and c) wherein said triangular piston provides stable support to said platen when said corresponding actuator is pressurized. 12. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein each of said actuators has an independently adjustable stroke. 13. The molding apparatus as recited in claim 7 further comprises spring counterbalances attached to said second mold portions to compensate for the weight thereof. 