A payguide mounting bracket assembly is connected to a support stand, and a spool is connected to the payguide mounting bracket assembly to have a fiber optic coil formed thereon. A pair of payguide assemblies are demountably coupled to the payguide mounting bracket assembly. A robotic manipulator assembly is configured to decouple a selected one of the first and second payguide assemblies from the payguide mounting bracket assembly and move the selected payguide assembly to a location adjacent the spool such that a layer of optical fiber is paid out to the spool from the selected payguide assembly as the spool and payguide mounting bracket assembly rotate relative to the selected payguide assembly. The invention also preferably comprises further comprises an epoxy applicator assembly configured to be demountably coupled to the robotic manipulator assembly for movement to a location adjacent the coil for applying epoxy to the coil.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for forming a fiber optic coil, comprising: a support stand; a payguide mounting bracket assembly connected to the support stand; a spool connected to the payguide mounting bracket assembly; a first motor connected to the payguide mounting bracket assembly and configured for rotating the payguide mounting bracket assembly and the spool; a first payguide assembly demountably coupled to the payguide mounting bracket assembly; a second payguide assembly demountably coupled to the payguide mounting bracket assembly; a robotic manipulator assembly configured to decouple a selected one of the first and second payguide assemblies from the payguide mounting bracket assembly and move the selected payguide assembly to a location adjacent the spool such that a layer of optical fiber is paid out to the spool from the selected payguide assembly as the spool and payguide mounting bracket assembly rotate relative to the selected payguide assembly. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the first and second payguide assemblies comprises: a bulkhead plate; a fiber transfer spool connected to the bulkhead plate and configured for having a portion of the optical fiber to be used in forming a coil wound thereon; a dancer wheel connected to the bulkhead plate and arranged such that optical fiber from the fiber transfer spool passes under the dancer wheel; a capstan roller connected to the bulkhead plate and arranged such that optical fiber passes over the capstan roller; a fiber guide wheel connected to the bulkhead plate and configured to direct the optical fiber to a location adjacent the spool for forming the coil; a dancer motor/encoder connected to the dancer wheel for detecting when the dancer wheel deviates from a selected null position to indicate the tension in the fiber; a paymotor and brake apparatus connected to the fiber transfer spool for adjusting the tension in the fiber in response to signals from the dancer motor/encoder. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a capstan encoder for measuring a length of optical fiber paid out to the spool. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further including a pinch roller for compressing the fiber against the capstan roller to prevent the fiber from slipping over capstan roller as the fiber is paid out to the spool. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an epoxy applicator assembly configured to be demountably coupled to the robotic manipulator assembly for movement to a location adjacent the coil for applying epoxy to the coil. 