A method and an apparatus for conducting microsurgery on human or animal tissue which includes alternately providing an Argon laser beam pulse and a YAG laser beam pulse in a cycle which is equal to or less than one second. A robotic device including piston and cylinder arrangements is provided for activating the control keys on a control panel associated with the Argon and YAG lasers.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for causing an incision on human or animal tissue, comprising: first and second laser beam source means producing a first laser beam for photocoagulation and a second laser beam for photodisruption; means for directing the laser beams from the first and second laser source means along a confocal path to a target on said tissue; switching means for controlling said first and second laser beam source means for directing the first laser beam to said target for a predetermined photodisruptive pulse duration and for directing the second laser beam to said target for predetermined thermal pulse duration to repeatedly complete a controlled cycle having a period of one second or less, whereby the second laser beam pulse coagulates tissue and the first laser beam pulse penetrates further through the coagulated tissue and cuts deeper by disruption, thereby permitting the second laser beam pulse subsequently to be efficiently absorbed, whereby efficient tunneling through solid tissue with a predictable size is provided. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second laser beam source means comprise an Argon laser for the first laser beam. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second laser beam source means comprise a Nd:YAG laser for the second laser beam. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second laser beam source means comprise an Argon laser for the first laser beam and an Nd:YAG laser for the second laser beam. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein the switching means include a robotic device including a plurality of piston and cylinder arrangements for actuating manual keys on a control panel of said Argon and Nd:YAG lasers, and means for cyclically controlling said robotic device to produce said first and second laser beams for said photodisruptive and thermo pulse durations respectively. 6. A method of incising human and animal tissue comprising the steps of: providing a source of a first laser beam for tissue photocoagulation and a second laser beam for tissue photodisruption; producing and directing the first laser beam to a target area on said tissue for a predetermined photodisruptive pulse duration, producing and directing the second laser beam to the target area for a predetermined thermal pulse duration to complete a cycle having a period of one second or less; and repeating the cycle, wherein the second laser beam pulse coagulates tissue and the first laser beam pulse penetrates further through the coagulated tissue and cuts deeper by disruption, thereby permitting the second laser beam pulse subsequently to be efficiently absorbed, whereby efficient tunneling through solid tissue with a predictable size is provided. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein the second laser beam source is an Argon laser. 8. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein the first and second laser beams are directed confocally onto the target area in alternating pulses. 9. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein the first laser beam source is an Nd:YAG laser. 10. A method as defined in claim 9, wherein the second laser beam source is an Argon laser. 