The present invention provides a random access and random load dispensing unit including a housing, at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis, a plurality of platforms movable along the support along the first axis, a plurality of bins supported on the platforms, the bins being movable with the platforms, and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis between the plurality of platforms to access and retrieve products stored in the bins.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of conducting a sales transaction for pharmacy filled prescription medications comprising: providing an automated dispensing device comprising a housing, a payment receiving terminal, and a plurality of storage locations, each storage location capable of storing a prescription medication that has been correlated to a specific consumer before being placed within the dispensing device; creating an information record comprising a consumer name, a prescription information element, and a medication information element; placing in the dispensing device a correlated prescription medication, which corresponds to the information record; accessing a pharmacy information system storing a plurality of information records; transferring the information record from the pharmacy information system to the automated dispensing device for the correlated prescription medication; after a consumer engages the dispensing device, accessing information received from a transferred record having a relation to that consumer; determining if a payment is required and receiving payment if required from the consumer at the payment receiving terminal for at least one correlated prescription medication; and delivering to the consumer a correlated prescription medication corresponding to the record. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising sending a transaction record to a point of sale system to account for a purchase transaction. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a alternate person for prescription pickup, a restriction for a pickup, and a preference for pickup at a counter. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the accessed record contains information about a correlated prescription medication that was filled for a person other than the consumer interacting with the dispensing device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein all records having a relation to the consumer are accessed, and the consumer has the option of paying for one or more correlated prescription medications. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of having the consumer identify themselves. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the consumer provides a means for identification to the dispensing device. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the means for identification is selected from the group consisting of a credit card, a store loyalty card, a driver's license, and an electronic identifier. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the electronic identifier is a radio frequency device or a biometric reading device. 10. A method of conducting a sales transaction for a pharmacy filled prescription stored within an automated delivery device having a plurality of storage locations, each storage location designed to store a pharmacy-filled prescription that has been associated with a specific consumer before being placed within the delivery device, comprising; creating an information record comprising a consumer name, a prescription information element, and a medication information element, which is stored in a pharmacy computer system; storing a pharmacy-filled prescription associated with the information record in the delivery device; and providing access to the automated delivery device, so that a consumer may purchase a pharmacy-filled prescription associated with himself or herself; wherein the automated delivery device accesses the information record, after the consumer provides identification to the delivery device, and delivers to the consumer the pharmacy-filled prescription corresponding to the record. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the identification comprises a password or personal identification number. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the identification is selected from the group consisting of a credit card, a store loyalty card, a driver's license, and an electronic identifier. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the pharmacy computer system is located remotely from the delivery device. 14. The method of claim of claim 10, wherein the automated delivery device further comprises a device computer system. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising interfacing the device computer system to the pharmacy computer system. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising transferring the information record from the pharmacy computer system to the device computer system. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising transferring the information record from the pharmacy computer system to the device computer system before the consumer accesses the automated delivery device. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the automated delivery device further comprises a payment receiving terminal. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising determining whether payment is required before the prescription is delivered. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising accepting payment. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein payment is made by credit card or debit card. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein payment is made by cash. 23. The method of claim 19, further comprising sending a transaction record to a point of sale system to account for the purchase transaction. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising interfacing the device computer system to the point of sale system. 25. The method of claim 10, wherein the information record further comprises a prescription number. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a physician name, a drug name, a brand name, and a generic name. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the prescription information element further comprises a co-pay information and a co pay amount. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a consumer phone number, a consumer fax number, a consumer insurance information, a non-child resistant packaging information, and a consumer email address. 29. The method of claim 19, further comprising placing the prescription into a storage container, prior to storing it in the delivery device. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the storage container is a bag. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising placing a first barcode on the container. 32. The method of claim 31, further comprising associating a second barcode relating to the information record, and scanning both the second barcode and the first barcode to associate the container with the information record. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the delivery device further comprises an internal barcode reader, which is used to locate a prescription that has been associated to a consumer requesting delivery. 34. The method of claim 10, wherein the accessed information record transfers information about a prescription that was filled for the consumer interacting with the delivery device. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the accessed information record contains information about a prescription that was filled for a person other than the consumer interacting with the delivery device. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein all information records having a relation to the consumer are accessed, and the consumer has the option of paying for one or more prescriptions, each associated, with a different information record. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the automated delivery device has over 500 storage locations. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the storage locations are located in three different axes. 39. The method of claim 15 further comprising querying the computer system to obtain the most updated information records prior to displaying information about stored prescriptions to the consumer. 40. A method of conducting a sales transaction for a pharmacy-filled prescription that is first associated with a specific person, and then stored within an automated random storage, random delivery device having a plurality of storage locations, each storage location capable of storing a unique prescription, comprising; creating an information record comprising a consumer name, a prescription number, a drug name, a physician, and cost information selected from the group of a retail cost and a copay amount, which is stored in a pharmacy computer system; associating an electronic identification tag with the pharmacy-filled prescription and the information record, allowing the prescription to be electronically linked to the information record; storing the prescription medication and associated identification tag in the automated device amongst other previously-stored prescriptions, each having an associated electronic identification tag and information record; interfacing the automated device to the pharmacy computer system to allow the device to access information records; providing consumer access to the automated device, so that a consumer may purchase a stored prescription; wherein the automated device detects the electronic identification tag to locate a stored prescription associated with the consumer, and rapidly delivers the prescription. 41. A method of conducting a sales transaction in a retail pharmacy using a random storage, random delivery dispenser that stores pharmacy-filled prescriptions, each associated with a particular consumer before being stored, comprising providing an automated random storage, random delivery dispenser comprising a dispenser computer, a delivery apparatus, and several hundred storage locations, each storage location capable of storing a unique pharmacy-filled prescription, and being rapidly and easily accessed by the delivery apparatus upon demand; creating an information record comprising a consumer name, a prescription number, and a drug name; storing the information record in a pharmacy computer system; associating an electronic identification tag with the prescription and the information record to electronically link the prescription and the information record; storing the electronically-linked prescription in the dispenser; interfacing the dispenser computer to the pharmacy computer system to enable the dispenser computer to access information records; interfacing the dispenser computer to the pharmacy's point of sale system; providing access to the automated dispenser, so that a consumer may obtain a pharmacy-filled prescription; accepting payment; directing the dispenser to locate a prescription associated with the consumer by sensing the electronic identification tags; directing the delivery apparatus to rapidly deliver a sensed prescription; and transmitting purchase information from the dispenser computer to the store point of sale system to account for the delivered prescription. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the electronic identification tag is a barcode. 43. The method of claim 42, comprising placing the prescription into a container, before placing it into the dispenser. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the container is a bag. 45. The method of claim 43, securing the electronic identification tag to the container. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein the container is a bag, and the electronic identification tag is a barcode. 47. The method of claim 45, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a physician name, a drug name, a brand name, and a generic name. 48. The method of claim 47, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group of a retail price, a co-pay information, and a copay amount. 49. The method of claim 48, further comprising sensing the electronic identification tag after the prescription is placed in the dispenser to associate a storage location with a particular consumer's prescription. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the prescription is a refill. 