Method and apparatus for a fault tolerant automatic control system for a dynamic device having a sensor and a predetermined control algorithm include structure and steps for receiving a status signal from the sensor. Structure and steps are provided for transforming the sensor status signal and a predetermined reference signal into a linear time invariant coordinate system, generating a sensor estimate in the linear time invariant coordinate system based on the transformed sensor status signal and the transformed reference signal, transforming the sensor estimate into a physical coordinate system, detecting an error in the sensor status signal based on a comparison of the transformed sensor estimate and the sensor status signal, and reconfiguring the predetermined control algorithm based on the detected error. Preferably, the apparatus and method are implemented in an aircraft flight control system capable of detecting an aircraft sensor fault and reconfiguring the flight control program such that flight control surface actuators are commanded by ignoring or mitigating the failed sensor.
Claims I claim: 1. A fault tolerant automatic control system for a dynamic device having a sensor and a predetermined control algorithm, comprising: means for receiving a status signal from said sensor; and processing means for (i) transforming the sensor status signal and a predetermined reference signal into a linear time invariant coordinate system, (ii) generating a sensor estimate in the linear time invariant coordinate system based on the transformed sensor status signal and the transformed reference signal, (iii) transforming the sensor estimate into a physical coordinate system, (iv) detecting an error in the sensor status signal based on a comparison of the transformed sensor estimate and the sensor status signal, and (v) reconfiguring the predetermined control algorithm based on the detected error. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said processing means determines a difference signal corresponding to a difference between the sensor status signal and the predetermined reference signal. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein said processing means inputs said difference signal into the control algorithm and produces an actuator adjustment signal therefrom. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein said processing means transforms the sensor status signal and the predetermined reference signal into the linear time invariant coordinate system by applying a diffeomorphism transformation on the sensor status signal and the predetermined reference signal, and by applying a feedback LTI'ing control law to the actuator adjustment signal. 5. A system according to claim 4, wherein said processing means generates the system estimate based on the transformed sensor status signal, the transformed reference signal, and the actuator adjustment signal which has feedback LTI'ed. 6. A control system according to claim 1, wherein said processing means comprises an aircraft flight control computer and wherein said predetermined control algorithm comprises a flight control law. 7. A fault tolerant aircraft flight control system for detecting a failure in at least one of a flight control sensor and a flight control actuator, and for reconfiguring the flight control system to minimize the detected failure, comprising: input means for receiving a status signal indicating a status of said at least one of a flight control sensor and a flight control actuator; processing means for (i) comparing the received status signal to a predetermined flight control reference signal and providing a flight control adjustment signal based on the comparison, (ii) transforming the status signal, the reference signal, and the adjustment signal into a linear time invariant coordinate system, (iii) determining an expected response of the at least one of a flight control sensor and a flight control actuator based on the transformed signals in the linear time invariant coordinate system, and generating an expected response signal corresponding thereto, (iv) transforming the expected response signal from the linear time invariant coordinate system to a physical coordinate system, (v) comparing the transformed expected response signal to the received status signal and generating an error signal corresponding thereto, (vi) determining that a failure has occurred in the at least one of a flight control sensor and a flight control actuator based on the error signal, and (vii) generating a reconfigure signal to reconfigure the flight control system to minimize the detected failure; and output means for outputting a flight control adjustment signal to the at least one of a flight control sensor and a flight control actuator based on the reconfigured flight control system. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein said processing means determines a difference between the received status signal and the predetermined flight control reference signal and outputs a difference signal corresponding thereto, said processing means inputting the difference signal to a predetermined flight control law to produce the flight control adjustment signal. 9. A system according to claim 8, wherein the processing means transforms the status signal, the reference signal, and the adjustment signal by applying a diffeomorphism transformation on the status signal and the reference signal, and by applying a feedback LTI'ing control law to the flight control adjustment signal. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein one diffeomorphism is provided for longitudinal aircraft dynamics, and one diffeomorphism is provided for lateral aircraft dynamics. 11. A system according to claim 9, wherein the processing means identifies a failed component after comparing the transformed expected response signal to the received status signal and generating the error signal. 12. A system according to claim 7, wherein said processing means comprises a flight control computer processing one or more flight control laws, and wherein said flight control computer reconfigures the one or more flight control laws based on the reconfigure signal. 13. A system according to claim 7, wherein said processing means determines the expected response in the linear time invariant coordinate system in Z-space which is substantially independent of parameters of the system. 14. A method of fault tolerant automatic control for a dynamic device having a sensor and a predetermined control algorithm, comprising the steps of: receiving a status signal from the sensor; transforming the sensor status signal and a predetermined reference signal into a linear time invariant coordinate system; generating a sensor estimate in the linear time invariant coordinate system based on the transformed sensor status signal and the transformed reference signal; transforming the sensor estimate into a physical coordinate system; detecting an error in the sensor status signal based on the transformed sensor estimate and the sensor status signal; and reconfiguring the predetermined control algorithm based on the detected error. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein said dynamic device comprises an aircraft, the predetermined control algorithm comprises a flight control algorithm, and wherein the predetermined reference signal comprises a flight control law reference signal. 16. A method according to claim 14, further comprising the steps of: comparing the received status signal to the predetermined reference signal and providing a difference signal based on the comparison; subjecting the difference signal to the predetermined control algorithm to produce an actuation adjustment signal; and transforming the actuation adjustment signal into the linear time invariant coordinate system. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the step of generating a sensor estimate includes the step of generating the sensor estimate based on the transformed sensor status signal, the transformed reference signal, and the transformed adjustment signal. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein the first transforming step comprises the step of subjecting the sensor status signal and the predetermined reference signal to a diffeomorphism transformation, and subjecting the actuation adjustment signal to a feedback LTI'ing control law. 19. A method according to claim 14, wherein the linear time invariant coordinate system is a Z-space system substantially independent of parameters of the system. 20. A method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of identifying a failed component based on the detected error. 