Relates to the automatic operation and control of a surface treating device having a powered tool and a work wheel for engagement with a work piece, said device being carried on a robotic arm and being adapted to maintain a uniform pressure of engagement of said work wheel with a work piece and a uniform rate of speed of the working surface of said work wheel in its engagement with the work piece, and a balancing pressure applied to said powered tool and work wheel to in effect make them weightless for their precise control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile regulated work piece surface treatment device, having in combination a housing having a pair of end walls, supporting members disposed in said housing spaced from said end walls, a pair of slide members supported by said supporting members respectively disposed between said supporting members and said end walls, a pair of pneumatic cylinders disposed within said housing, a piston from each of said cylinders respectively attached to each of said slide members, a line of pressurized air to each of said cylinders, means carried by said device regulating the pressure of air in said air lines, a tool mounting plate carried by said slide members, a powdered tool and work wheel supported on said tool mounting plate, said air lines actuating said pistons to move in opposite directions applying controlled air pressure against each slide member to neutralize the effect of the weight of said power tool and work wheel by counter-balancing the same, one of said pistons causing a movement of said slide members to move said tool mounting plate and work wheel thereon a predetermined distance to a work piece contact point, and said one of said pistons as actuated by one of said air lines providing additional pressure for a determined pressure to be applied by said work wheel in its engagement with a work piece. 2. The structure of claim 1, wherein a robot arm supports said housing. 3. The structure of claim 1, wherein said supporting members comprise a pair of upstanding supports extending transversely of said housing, a pair of transversely spaced slide rods carried by said supports and extending between said end walls, and said slide members being mounted onto said slide rods. 4. The structure of claim 1, wherein the axis of said work wheel is at right angles to the direction of movement of said slide members. 5. The structure of claim 1, wherein said pistons sense a change in the extent to which said work wheel is extended by a change in the extent of movement of said slide members provide a signal to the operator to change the work wheel. 6. The structure of claim 1, including a work wheel speed control sensing means having an extendable shaft attached to a slide member, said means sensing an increase in the length of movement of said slide member, said increase resulting from a wearing away of the work piece engaging surface of said work wheel resulting in a reduction of the peripheral rate of rotation of said wheel, and said means having connection with said power tool to increase the rate of rotation of said wheel to maintain a constant peripheral speed. 7. The structure of claim 6, including means regulating the peripheral edge surface speed of said work wheel, said work wheel in wearing away its work piece engaging surface causes a reduction in the surface speed of rotation by itself, said regulating means sensing the change in extent of movement of said slide members by connection with said power tool causes said tool to accelerate the rate of rotation of said work wheel to maintain a constant speed of rotation of said work engaging surface of said work wheel. 8. A regulated work piece surface treatment device, having in combination a housing having a pair of end walls, supporting means within said housing spaced from said end walls, a pair of transversely spaced slide rods carried by said supporting means extending between end walls, a pair of slide members respectively mounted onto said slide rods between said support means and said end walls, a tool mounting plate carried by said slide members, a pair of pneumatic cylinders disposed reversely of one another within said housing, a piston extending from each of said cylinders to each of said slide members, a pressurized air line from an appropriate air source to each of said cylinders actuating the pistons in said cylinders to move in opposite directions, means carried by said housing regulating the pressure in said air lines, one of said pistons being adapted to move one of said slide members to extend said work wheel to a predetermined contact point under a predetermined air line pressure for engagement with a work piece, and said slide members are caused by wear of said work wheel to move beyond said predetermined extent for engagement with said work piece. 9. The structure of claim 7, wherein said supporting means comprise a pair of spaced walls, said slide rods extending through said walls, and said slide members being substantially rectangular in plan having a height above that of said supporting means. 10. A regulated work piece surface treatment device, having in combination a housing supported by a robotic arm, said housing having end walls, a pair of spaced support members in said housing transversely thereof and respectively spaced from said end walls thereof, a pair of pneumatic cylinders disposed between said support members positioned reversely of each other, a pressurized air line to each of said cylinders from an appropriate source of air, adjustable means carried by said housing regulating the pressure of air in said air lines, a pair of transversely spaced guide rods extending through said support members to said end walls, a pair of slide members respectively mounted onto said slide rods between said support members and said end walls, a tool mounting plate carried on said slide members, a powered tool equipped with a work wheel on said mounting plate, said pistons being respectively attached to said slide members, and said air lines respectively actuating said pistons to move in opposite directions to apply such pressure to said slide members as to neutralize the weight effect between said tool and its work wheel and a predetermined additional pressure is applied by the piston moving by said tool mounting plate and said work wheel thereon into working position by movement of said slide members and said work wheel being moved a predetermined extent to a contact point for engagement with a work piece. 11. The structure of claim 10, wherein said work wheel is positioned to have its axis at right angles to the direction of movement of said slide members. 12. The structure of claim 10, wherein a pressurized air line from said air source sweeping across said housing to divert dust created by the surface treatment action of said work wheel. 13. A regulated surface treatment device, having in combination a housing having a pair of end walls, a pair of spaced support members in said housing transversely thereof respectively spaced from said end walls, a pair of transversely spaced guide rods carried by said support members longitudinally of said housing, a pair of slide members respectively mounted onto said guide rods between said support members and said end walls, a pair of pneumatic cylinders between said support members reversely positioned relative to each other, an air line to each cylinder from a pressurized air source, a piston from each of said cylinders respectively attached to each of said slide members, a tool mounting plate carried by said slide members, a powered tool carried on said plate having a work piece engaging work wheel, said pistons actuated by said air lines to move in opposite directions to bear a balancing pressure against said slide members to neutralize the effect of the weight of said powered tool and work wheel by counter-balancing the same, one of said pistons actuated by the pressure of its air line to provide additional pressure to one of said slide members to cause said powered tool and its work wheel to become extended a predetermined extent to a predetermined contact point for engagement by a work piece, and said additional pressure to noe of said slide members being a predetermined pressure to be applied by said work wheel in treating the surface of said work piece engaged therewith. 14. The structure of claim 13, wherein a predetermined leeway allowance is provided with said additional pressure to accommodate the wearing off of said surface of said work wheel whereby any difference in the resulting treatment of the surface of said work piece by said work wheel are imperceptible. 15. The structure of claim 13, including said pistons detect from engagement with said slide members a change in the extent of movement beyond said predetermined extent and a leeway allowance in addition thereto, thereby indicating a signal to indicate a need to change said work wheel or reindex the same. 16. The structure of claim 13, including a work wheel speed control means, an extensible shaft from said control means attached to a slider member, said means sensing an increase in the extent of movement of said slide member beyond a predetermined amount, said increase in movement being caused by a wearing away of the surface of said work wheel engaging work piece, said wearing away resulting in a reduction of the diameter of said work wheel which in turn results in a reduction of the peripheral speed of said work wheel, and said means having connection with said powered tool causing it to increase the rotation speed of said work wheel to maintain a constant peripheral speed of said work wheel. 