A capacitive type proximity sensor having improved range and sensitivity between a surface and an intruding object in the vicinity of the surface having a voltage source, a number of outer electrical conductors on the surface with each forming one electrode of a number of sensor capacitors, the other electrode for each sensor capacitor being the object. The outer conductors are made from thin sheets of conductive material covered with insulation. An intermediate electrical conductor is located between the outer conductors and the surface and is of a size larger than the outer conductors to act as a shield for reducing the parasitic capacitance between the outer conductors and the surface. The intermediate conductor is also made from a thin sheet of conductive material covered with insulation. The outer conductors and the intermediate conductor are attached to the surface with no gap between the insulation on the conductors and no gap between the surface and the insulation on intermediate conductor, the outer conductors and the intermediate conductor conjoining with each other and with the surface, with the surface acting as a ground plane. A current-measuring voltage follower circuit is connected to the voltage source for coupling in phase and amplitude the instantaneous voltage at the voltage source to the outer electrical conductors and the intermediate electrical conductor. This circuit is responsive to the change in capacitance of the sensor capacitors and generates a number of output signals.
Claims I claim: 1. A capacitive type proximity sensor having improved range and sensitivity between a surface and an intruding object in the vicinity of the surface comprising: a voltage source; a plurality of outer electrical conductors on said surface each forming one electrode of a plurality of sensor capacitors, the other electrode for each sensor capacitor comprising said object, said plurality of outer conductors comprising thin strips of conductive material covered with insulation and arranged in rows and columns; an intermediate electrical conductor located between said plurality of outer conductors and said surface and being of a size larger than said plurality of outer conductors to act as a shield for reducing the parasitic capacitance between said plurality of outer conductors and said surface, said intermediate conductor comprising a thin sheet of conductive material covered with insulation; said plurality of outer conductors and said intermediate conductor attached to said surface with no gap between the insulation on said conductors and no gap between said surface and the insulation on said intermediate conductor, said plurality of outer conductors and said intermediate conductor conjoining with each other and with said surface, said surface acting as a ground plane; and measurement circuit means, connected to said voltage source, for coupling in phase and amplitude the instantaneous voltage at said voltage source to said plurality of outer electrical conductors and said intermediate electrical conductor, said measurement circuit means responsive to the change in capacitance of said plurality of sensor capacitors for generating a plurality of output signals. 2. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said thin strips arranged in rows and columns are arranged in a basket weave fashion. 3. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said thin strips arranged in rows and columns are arranged such that the rows are underneath the columns with the row strips wider than the column strips. 4. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said thin strips arranged in rows and columns are arranged such that the rows are underneath the columns with the spacing between the column strips wider than the spacing between the row strips. 5. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said measurement circuit means comprises a plurality of current-measuring voltage follower circuits each comprised of an op-amp and a resistor. 6. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said measurement circuit means comprises a plurality of current-measuring voltage follower circuits each comprises of an op-amp, a resistor and a capacitor. 7. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said measurement circuit means comprises a plurality of active current bridge circuits. 8. The sensor of claim 1 further comprising an additional electrical conductor located between said plurality of outer electrical conductors and said intermediate electrical conductor and being of a size larger than said plurality of outer conductors but less than or equal to the size of said intermediate conductor, said additional conductor comprising a thin sheet of conductive material covered with insulation. 