This invention provides a hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp for sealing leaks in pipe lines located in remote or hazardous places. The pipe clamp consists of a split block having hinged jaws that may be clamped around a pipe by a hydraulic actuator. The jaws are then mechanically latched in place so that the clamp will remain closed after the hydraulic source has been disconnected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp for manipulation by a robot, comprising: a split block, having a bore, said split block consisting of two hinged-together jaws; a first double-acting hydraulic means for spreading apart the hinged-together jaws of said split block to allow positioning said split block over a desired portion of a pipe having a preselected diameter and for clamping the hinged-together jaws of said split block around said pipe; a second double-acting hydraulic means for rotating a first and a second latching means over said jaws when clamped around said pipe to confine said jaws to a clamped configuration. 2. The hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp as defined by claim 1, wherein: said bore is sized to match the preselected diameter of said pipe. 3. The hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp as defined by claim 2, comprising: a plurality of grooves for receiving split sealing rings mounted internally of said bore. 4. The hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp as defined by claim 3, comprising: means for releasable securing said hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp to a robot; means for connecting said first and second double-acting hydraulic means to a source of pressurized fluid; and means for disconnecting said first and second double-acting hydraulic means from said source when said hinged jaws of said split block are latched and said robot withdraws. 5. The hydraulically-actuated pipe clamp as defined by claim 1, comprising: means for closing said jaws and rotating said first and second latching means into a latching position according to a preselected mechanical operational sequence. 