A robot carries a swabbing member to a position of each mold to rub the swabbing member against each one of the molds. The swabbing member feeds a swabbing agent to the surface of each mold where it comes in contact with, and rubs the agent thereinto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A swabbing device for molds of a bottle making machine, comprising: a swabbing member for supplying the surface of a mold with a swabbing agent, the swabbing member made of an absorbent material provided around a core member for supplying the surface of a mold with a preliminarily impregnated swabbing agent by being rubbed against the surface of the mold; a multijoint robot having a robotic arm with four or more joints which traverses above a plurality of bottle forming sections for carrying said swabbing member to a position adjacent each of the molds and performing an automatic swabbing operation at each section wherein each joint is capable of a pivoting and a rotational movement independent of, and concurrent with, the other joints; a plurality of motors for separately driving each of the joints of the robotic arm; and a controller for separately controlling the activation of each motor to drive the swabbing member relative to each mold to a position within a mold, to press the swabbing member against the surface of the mold, and to move the swabbing member along the surface. 2. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein said swabbing member is made of cloth or string provided around a core member for absorbing a swabbing agent. 3. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the whole body of said multijoint robot is arranged to move in a reciprocating motion in a direction bottle forming sections are aligned, and is stopped at a predetermined swabbing position. 4. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 3, wherein said multijoint robot is driven in a reciprocating motion along a straight guide. 5. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 4, wherein the movement of multijoint robot in the reciprocating motion is performed by a linear motor. 6. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 4, wherein the movement of multijoint robot in the reciprocating motion is performed by a servomotor. 7. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: a position detector for detecting a position where the multijoint robot is at present; and a controller for judging a swabbing position of the multijoint robot against each mold based on the result of a detection made by the position detector, and stopping the multijoint robot at the swabbing position corresponding to each mold for performing a swabbing operation. 8. A swabbing device for molds of a bottle making machine, comprising: a swabbing member made of an absorbent material provided around a core member for supplying the surface of a mold with a preliminarily impregnated swabbing agent by being rubbed against the surface of the mold; a multijoint robot with four or more joints which traverses above a plurality of bottle forming sections for carrying said swabbing member to a position adjacent each of the molds and performing an automatic swabbing operation at each section, wherein the multijoint robot is arranged to move in a reciprocating motion across the bottle forming sections and can be stopped at predetermined positions; a position detector for detecting a position where the multijoint robot is at present; a controller for judging a swabbing position of the multijoint robot against each mold based on the result of a detection made by the position detector, and stopping the multijoint robot at the swabbing position corresponding to each mold for performing a swabbing operation; and a swabbing agent supply means which operates in combination with the multijoint robot for feeding a swabbing agent to the surface of a mold. 9. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 8, wherein said controller controls a swabbing operation in compliance with a predetermined order of the bottle forming sections. 10. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 8, wherein the controller controls a swabbing operation in compliance with an order the bottle forming sections are aligned. 11. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 10, further comprising input means for designating a specific bottle forming section, and the controller controls to preferentially perform a swabbing operation in a specified bottle forming section upon receiving input from the input means. 12. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of swabbing members, each member having a different shape for applying a swabbing agent by making contact with a mold, and a controller for controlling said multijoint robot to selectively exchange the plurality of swabbing members according to a requirement. 13. A swabbing device for molds of a bottle making machine, comprising: a swabbing member made of an absorbent material provided around a core member for supplying the surface of a mold with a preliminarily impregnated swabbing agent by being rubbed against the surface of the mold; a multijoint robot having a robotic arm with four or more joints which traverses above a plurality of bottle forming sections for carrying the swabbing member to each one of the positions of said molds and performing an automatic swabbing operation at each section wherein each joint is capable of a pivoting and a rotational movement independent of, and concurrent with, the other joints; a plurality of motors for separately driving each of the joints of the robotic arm; a controller for separately controlling the activation of each motor to drive the swabbing member relative to each mold to a position within a mold, to press the swabbing member against the surface of the mold and to move the swabbing member along the surface; and a swabbing agent supply means which operates in combination with the multijoint robot for feeding a swabbing agent to the surface of a mold; whereby the controller controls an execution of swabbing operation in compliance with a predetermined order for forming actions of each bottle forming sections. 14. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 13, wherein said swabbing member is made of cloth or string provided around a core member for absorbing a swabbing agent. 15. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 14, wherein said swabbing agent supply means feeds a swabbing agent by bringing the swabbing agent in contact with the outer periphery of the swabbing member in a manner of impregnation. 16. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 14, wherein said swabbing agent supply means impregnates a swabbing agent into an impregnated material from within the core material of the swabbing member. 17. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 13, wherein the whole body of the multijoint robot is arranged to move in a reciprocating motion in a direction bottle forming sections are aligned, and is stopped at a predetermined swabbing position. 18. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 17, wherein said multijoint robot is driven in a reciprocating motion along a straight guide. 19. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 17, further comprising: a position indication provided corresponding to a mold of each bottle forming section; a detector provided on the side of said multijoint robot for detecting each position indication at a predetermined position opposite to the multijoint robot; a controller for judging a swabbing position of the multijoint robot against each mold based on the result of a detection made by the detector, and stopping the multijoint robot at the swabbing position corresponding to each mold for performing a swabbing operation. 20. A swabbing device for molds of a bottle making machine, comprising: a plurality of swabbing members, each member having a different shape and made of an absorbent material provided around a core member for supplying the surface of a mold with a preliminarily impregnated swabbing agent by being rubbed against the surface of the mold; a multijoint robot with four or more joints which traverses above a plurality of bottle forming sections for carrying the swabbing member to a position of each of the molds and performing an automatic swabbing operation at each section; a swabbing agent supply means which operates in combination with the multijoint robot for feeding a swabbing agent to the surface of a mold; a first controller for executing a swabbing operation in compliance with a predetermined order of the bottle forming sections; and a second controller for controlling the multijoint robot to selectively exchange said plurality of swabbing members according to a predetermined standard. 21. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 20, wherein said swabbing member is made of cloth or string provided around a core member for absorbing a swabbing agent. 22. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 21, wherein said swabbing agent supply means feeds a swabbing agent by bringing the swabbing agent in contact with the outer periphery of the swabbing member in a manner of impregnation. 23. A swabbing device for molds of bottle making machine as claimed in claim 21, wherein said swabbing agent supply means impregnates a swabbing agent into an impregnated material from within the core material of said swabbing member. 24. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 20, wherein the whole body of said multijoint robot is arranged to move in a reciprocating motion in a direction the bottle forming sections are aligned, and is stopped at a predetermined swabbing position. 25. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 24, wherein said multijoint robot is guided along a straight guide and is driven in a reciprocating motion. 26. A swabbing device for molds of the bottle making machine as claimed in claim 24, further comprising: a position detector for detecting a position where the multijoint robot is at present; and a third controller for judging a swabbing position of the multijoint robot against each mold based on the result of a detection made by the detector, and stopping the multijoint robot at the swabbing position corresponding to each mold for performing a swabbing operation. 27. An automatic swab lubricating apparatus for a bottle making machine having a plurality of molds with respective cavities comprising: a support member extending adjacent each of the molds; an articulated arm cantilevered from the support member and movable along the support member; a movable swabbing member attached to the articulated arm and of a configuration to extend into and contacting the interior of a mold cavity; means for providing a fluid lubricant under pressure to the movable swabbing member when it is extended into a mold cavity; means for sensing the position of the articulated arm and the mold cavities and providing corresponding positional signals; and means for driving the articulated arm and relatively moving the swabbing member relative to the articulated arm in response to the positional signals, whereby the articulated arm can be driven to a position adjacent a mold cavity and the swabbing member can be positioned within and relatively moved to contact an interior of a mold cavity while fluid lubricant is being concurrently delivered to the swabbing member. 28. An automatic swab lubricating apparatus as claimed in claim 27 wherein the swabbing member includes an outer flexible applicator and an internal lubricant supply line connected to the means for providing a fluid lubricant. 29. An automatic swab lubricating apparatus as claimed in claim 28 further including a check valve mounted on the articulated arm and connected to the lubricant supply line to prevent leakage of lubricant when the lubricant is not supplied under pressure to the supply line. 30. An automatic swab lubricating apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein each swabbing member includes a detent and the articulated arm has a spring-biased retention member for removably engaging the detent. 31. An automatic swab lubricating apparatus as claimed in claim 27 further including a storage member and a plurality of swabbing members removably mounted on the storage member and control means for automatically directing the means for driving and the articulated arm to remove a swabbing member attached to the articulated arm and mounting it on the storage member and replacing it with a different swabbing member stored on the storage member to accommodate a different configuration of a mold cavity with an appropriately shaped swabbing member. 32. A swabbing device for molds of a bottle making machine, comprising: a plurality of swabbing members, each member having a different shape for applying a swabbing agent to a mold, and each swabbing member made of an absorbent material provided around a core member for supplying the surface of a mold with the swabbing agent; a multijoint robot with four or more joints which traverses above a plurality of bottle forming sections for carrying said swabbing member to a position adjacent each of the molds and performing an automatic swabbing operation at each section; a controller for controlling the multijoint robot to select a swabbing member from the plurality of swabbing members for a swabbing operation at a mold; and a swabbing agent supply means which operates in combination with the multijoint robot for feeding a swabbing agent to the surface of a mold. 33. A swabbing device for molds of a bottle making machine, comprising: a swabbing member made of an absorbent material provided around a core member for supplying the surface of a mold with a preliminarily impregnated swabbing agent by being rubbed against the surface of the mold; a multijoint robot with four or more joints which traverses above a plurality of bottle forming sections for carrying the swabbing member to each one of the positions of said molds and performing an automatic swabbing operation at each section, wherein the multijoint robot is arranged to move in a reciprocating motion across the bottle forming section and can be stopped at predetermined positions a position indication provided corresponding to a mold of each bottle forming section; a detector provided on the side of said multijoint robot for detecting each position indication at a predetermined position opposite to the multijoint robot; a controller for judging a swabbing position of the multijoint robot against each mold based on the result of a detection made by the detector, and stopping the multijoint robot at the swabbing position corresponding to each mold for performing a swabbing operation; and a swabbing agent supply means which operates in combination with the multijoint robot for feeding a swabbing agent to the surface of a mold. 