An improved robotic welding torch includes a conductive inner body tube with first and second receiving areas for receiving a rear housing retaining device and a robotic mount retaining device. A removable robotic mount is slidably positioned over the conductive inner body tube and is preferably held in a fixed axial position by the robotic mount retaining device on one end and a rear housing on the other end. The robotic mount may be replaced with another robotic mount of a desired diameter without dismantling the entire robotic torch assembly. The robotic welding torch may be assembled with an integrated robotic mounting arm in place of the robotic mount so that the torch assembly may be attached directly to a collision sensor on a welding robot. A method of assembling or disassembling a robotic welding torch includes the steps of removably sliding and attaching a rear housing and either a robotic mount or integrated robotic mounting arm by sliding either one onto the inner body tube and against the edge of the rear housing. The robotic mount or integrated mounting arm are removable without the need to completely disassemble the robotic torch through the use of two retaining devices.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic welding torch assembly for use in robotic welding, said torch assembly comprising: a conductive inner body tube having a first receiving area for receiving a rear housing retaining device and a second receiving area for receiving a robotic mount retaining device; and a removable robotic mount slidably positioned over the conductive inner body tube, said robotic mount held in a fixed axial position by the robotic mount retaining device on one end and a rear housing on the other end. 2. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the first and second receiving areas are circumferential grooves in an external portion of the inner body tube. 3. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the rear housing retaining device is a snap ring. 4. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the robotic mount retaining device is a snap ring. 5. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the conductive inner body tube further comprises a female connector end for receiving a removable keyed body tube. 6. The welding torch assembly of claim 5, wherein the female connector end in the inner body tube designed to receive the detachable keyed body tube further comprises a key for cooperating with a keyway in a male connector end of the keyed detachable body tube whereby a keyed connection is formed in a predetermined orientation when the keyed body tube is attached to the inner body tube. 7. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the robotic mount comprises a cylindrical outer circumference and a non-circular inner circumference. 8. The welding torch assembly of claim 7, wherein the non-circular inner circumference is hexagonal. 9. The welding torch assembly of claim 1, wherein the robotic mount comprises an electrically insulating material. 10. The welding torch assembly of claim 9 wherein the electrically insulating material is a thermal set plastic. 11. The robotic welding torch assembly of claim 1 wherein the welding torch assembly is a metal inert gas (MIG) welding torch assembly. 12. A robotic welding torch assembly for use with a welding robot, said torch assembly comprising: a conductive inner body tube attached to a cable assembly, said conductive inner body tube having a first receiving area for receiving a rear housing retaining device and a second receiving area for receiving a robotic mount retaining device; and a removable integrated robotic mounting arm positioned over the conductive inner body tube, said integrated robotic mounting arm having a torch mounting sleeve, an arm section, and a welding robot mounting sleeve; said torch mounting sleeve held in a fixed axial position by the robotic mount retaining device on one end and the rear housing on the other end. 13. The welding torch assembly of claim 12, wherein the arm section extending perpendicularly from the torch mounting sleeve. 14. The welding torch assembly of claim 12, wherein the arm section comprises a T-shaped cross-section. 15. The welding torch assembly of claim 12, wherein the welding robot mounting sleeve comprises a hollow cylindrical portion integrally formed with said arm and positioned on an end of the arm section opposite the torch mounting sleeve, whereby the integrated robotic mounting arm is attachable to a robotic collision sensor post. 16. The welding torch assembly of claim 12, wherein the welding robot mounting sleeve further comprises a keyed cross-section having a flattened portion for receiving a collision sensor post in a predetermined orientation. 17. The welding torch assembly of claim 12 wherein the inner body tube comprises a hexagonal exterior circumference and the welding torch mounting sleeve comprises a hexagonal inner circumference, whereby an anti-rotational connection is formed. 18. The welding torch assembly of claim 12, wherein the inner body tube further comprises a key for cooperating with a keyway in the welding torch mounting sleeve of the integrated robotic mounting arm. 19. A removable integrated robotic mounting arm for use in a robotic welding torch assembly comprising: a torch mounting sleeve having a non-circular inner circumference configured to directly contact a conductive inner body tube having a complementary non-circular outer circumference, wherein the non-circular inner circumference forms an anti-rotational fit against the complementary non-circular outer circumference of the conductive inner body tube; an arm section integrally attached to the torch mounting sleeve and extending perpendicularly from the torch mounting sleeve; and a welding robot mounting sleeve integrally attached to the arm section opposite the torch mounting sleeve. 20. The integrated robotic mounting arm of claim 19, wherein the torch mounting sleeve further comprises a keyway positioned on the inner circumference. 21. The integrated robotic mounting arm of claim 19, wherein the arm section comprises a T-shaped cross-section. 22. A method of assembling a robotic welding torch assembly comprising the steps of: attaching a cable fitting to a conductive inner body tube via a power adapter; sliding a biasing member and rear housing over the front end of the conductive inner body tube, wherein the biasing member is positioned between the power adapter and the rear housing; installing a rear housing retaining member in a first receiving area located along the inner body tube wherein the biasing member is partly compressed in an axial direction by the rear housing, whereby the rear housing is maintained in an axial position along the inner body tube between the rear housing retaining member and the partly compressed biasing member. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of sliding a robotic mount over the inner body tube until it makes contact with the rear housing; and installing a robotic mount retaining member in a second receiving area along the inner body tube to maintain the robotic mount in an axially fixed position, wherein the robotic mount is biased against the robotic mount retaining member by the biasing member, said robotic mount individually removable from the inner body tube. 24. A robotic welding torch assembly for use in robotic welding, said torch assembly comprising: a conductive inner body tube having a first receiving area for receiving a rear housing retaining device and a second receiving area for receiving a robotic mount retaining device; and a removable robotic mount slidably positioned over the conductive inner body tube, said robotic mount held in a fixed axial position by the robotic mount retaining device on one end and a rear housing on the other end, wherein the robotic mount comprises a cylindrical outer circumference and a polygonal inner circumference. 25. A robotic welding torch assembly for use with a welding robot, said torch assembly comprising: a conductive inner body tube attached to a cable assembly, said conductive inner body tube having a first receiving area for receiving a rear housing retaining device and a second receiving area for receiving a robotic mount retaining device, wherein the inner body tube comprises a polygonal exterior circumference; a removable integrated robotic mounting arm positioned over the conductive inner body tube, said integrated robotic mounting arm having a torch mounting sleeve, an arm section, and a welding robot mounting sleeve; and said torch mounting sleeve held in a fixed axial position by the robotic mount retaining device on one end and the rear housing on the other end, the torch mounting sleeve comprising a polygonal inner circumference designed to form an anti-rotational connection with the polygonal exterior circumference of the conductive inner body tube. 