Systems, methods and devices for the automated retrieval/delivery of goods from one location to another using a robotic device such as a tug and accompanying cart. A computer within the tug/cart stores a map of the building floor plan and intended paths for the tug to take when traversing from one location to the next. During the delivery, a variety of different sensors and scanners gather data that is used to avoid obstacles and/or continuously adjust the movement of the tug in order to more closely follow the intended path. The system preferably includes wireless networks that allow one or more tugs to communicate with a tug base station, a primary network located at the site of the delivery and a remote host center that monitors the status and data collected by the tugs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: at a robotic device, receiving a destination for the robotic device from an external source; utilizing a map stored onboard the robotic device to determine one or more x,y coordinates positioned on a predetermined path from the robotic device to the destination, wherein the map includes the predetermined path; rotating a first drive wheel at a first velocity and a second drive wheel at a second velocity to move the robotic device toward a location corresponding to at least one of the one or more x,y coordinates; and changing one or more of the following based on information gathered by one or more onboard sensors: at least one of the one or more x, y coordinates; the first velocity; and the second velocity. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the destination comprises receiving a final destination. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the destination comprises receiving an intermediate destination. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the destination comprises receiving an x,y coordinate from the external source. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing the map comprises utilizing a scaled map. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing the map comprises utilizing a bitmap. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first velocity is equal to the second velocity. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first velocity is different from the second velocity. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising, at the robotic device, continuously determining a position of the robotic device based on the information gathered by one or more onboard sensors. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending a request from the robotic device to use an elevator; and controlling the elevator via the robotic device. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein sending the request comprises sending a request to use a passenger elevator. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein controlling the elevator comprises: utilizing an elevator control box in communication with the robotic device to: remove the elevator cabin from a hall call loop; complete all cabin call requests; and send the elevator to a floor requested by the robotic device. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein controlling the elevator comprises: utilizing the elevator control box to control a plurality of elevators. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: after all cabin call requests are completed, sending a message that the elevator is available for use by the robotic device. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: after all cabin call requests are completed, waiting a predefined amount of time before sending the message. 16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: the robotic device moving into a cabin of the elevator; and utilizing the elevator to travel from a current floor to a destination floor. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein utilizing the elevator comprises sharing the elevator cabin with at least one other person. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein utilizing the elevator comprises sharing the elevator cabin with at least one other robotic device. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising completing all cabin call requests before stopping the elevator at the destination floor. 20. A method, comprising: at a robotic device, receiving a destination for the robotic device from an external source; utilizing a map stored onboard the robotic device to determine one or more x,y coordinates positioned on a predetermined path from the robotic device to the destination wherein the map includes the predetermined path; rotating a first drive wheel at a first velocity and a second drive wheel at a second velocity to move the robotic device toward a location corresponding to at least one of the one or more x,y coordinates; changing one or more of the following based on information gathered by one or more onboard sensors: at least one of the one or more x, y coordinates; the first velocity; and the second velocity; and sending a request to use an elevator. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein sending the request comprises sending a request to use a passenger elevator. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising controlling the elevator via an elevator control box in communication with the robotic device. 23. A robotic device, comprising: a body; first and second drive wheels; one or more sensors; and a computing device having a processor, wherein the robotic device is configured to: receive a destination for the robotic device from an external source; utilize a map stored onboard the robotic device to determine one or more x,y coordinates positioned on a predetermined path from the robotic device to the destination wherein the map includes the predetermined path; rotate the first drive wheel at a first velocity and the second drive wheel at a second velocity to move the robotic device toward a location corresponding to at least one of the one or more x,y coordinates; and change one or more of the following based on information gathered by the one or more sensors: at least one of the one or more x, y coordinates; the first velocity; and the second velocity. 24. The robotic device of claim 23, wherein the robotic device is further configured to wirelessly communicate with a remote device. 25. The robotic device of claim 23, wherein the robotic device is further configured to wirelessly communicate with an elevator system. 