A robotic end effector adapted to be mounted at the end of an arm of a program-controlled robot is capable of providing compliance within a vertical plane. A method and system utilizing the end effector pick-up flat or curved glass panels from glass racks and place the glass panels into irregularly-shaped wooden crates. Due to the compliance provided by the end effector, the system allows essentially perfect piece-to-piece vertical edge-of-glass alignment during the packaging process so as to eliminate glass etching/scratching. The end effector includes a base frame on which compliance devices in the form of linear bearing systems support a number of material handling devices in the form of suction devices. Selected ones of the compliance devices can be locked out under the control of a controller for the robot. Each suction device includes a spring-biased suction cup to also provide compliance in a direction substantially normal to the compliance provided in the vertical plane.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for loading a desired number of rigid sheets of material into a shipping container from a storage container at a work station, the system comprising: a program-controlled robot having an arm provided with an end effector movable with respect to controlled axes, wherein the end effector includes a base frame coupled to the arm of the robot and at least one material handling device supported on the base frame to receive and retain at least one sheet of material; and a controller for (1) causing the robot to move the end effector with respect to the control axes to pick up the at least one sheet of material from the storage container and place the at least one sheet of material in the shipping container; (2) causing the at least one material handling device to receive, retain and then release the at least one sheet of material so that the at least one sheet of material is supported on a floor of the shipping container at a bottom edge of the at least one sheet of material; and (3) generating first and second control signals and wherein the end effector further includes a compliance device for supporting the at least one material handling device on the base frame to allow the at least one material handling device to move freely relative to the base frame in an upward direction substantially opposite a downward direction of the base frame upon engagement of the bottom edge of the at least one sheet of material with the floor of the shipping container and prior to release of the at least one sheet of material by the at least one material handling device; and locking means responsive to the first and second control signals for selectively locking the compliance device in response to the first control signal to prevent relative movement between the at least one material handling device and the base frame wherein passive compliance provided by the compliance device is locked out in response to the first control signal and passive compliance provided by the compliance device is released in response to the second control signal, the locking means allowing the compliance device to operate so that the at least one material handling device can move freely relative to the base frame in the upward direction. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the rigid sheets of material are glass panels. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the shipping container is an irregularly-shaped crate. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the storage container is a regularly-shaped glass rack. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end effector includes a plurality of material handling devices supported at a plurality of spaced locations on the base frame to receive and retain a number of sheets of material. 6. The system as claimed in claim 5 wherein each of the material handling devices is a suction device. 7. An end effector for use with a program-controlled robot to load a desired number of rigid sheets of material into a shipping container from a storage container at a work station, the end effector comprising: a base frame adapted to be mounted on the robot; at least one material handling device supported on the base frame, the at least one material handling device being adapted to receive and retain at least one sheet of material in the storage container and then release the at least one sheet of material in the shipping container so that the at least one sheet of material is supported on a floor of the shipping container at a bottom edge of the at least one sheet of material; a compliance device for supporting the at least one material handling device on the base frame to allow the at least one material handling device to move freely relative to the base frame in an upward direction substantially opposite a downward direction of the base frame upon engagement of the bottom edge of the at least one sheet of material with the floor of the shipping container; and locking means responsive to first and second control signals for selectively locking the compliance device in response to the first control signal to prevent relative movement between the at least one material handling device and the base frame wherein passive compliance provided by the compliance locked out in response to the first control signal and passive compliance provided by the compliance device is released in response to the second control signal, the locking means allowing the compliance device to operate so that the at least one material handling device can move freely relative to the base frame in the upward direction. 8. The end effector of claim 7 further including a plurality of material handling devices supported at a plurality of spaced locations on the base frame to receive and retain a number of sheets of material. 9. The end effector of claim 8 wherein each of the material handling devices is a suction device. 10. The end effector as claimed in claim 8 further including a number of compliance devices and wherein the material handling devices are supported on the base frame by the compliance devices. 11. The end effector as claimed in claim 7 wherein the compliance device includes a linear bearing system. 12. The end effector as claimed in claim 11 wherein the linear bearing system includes a rail fixedly supported on the base frame and a translating carriage slidably supported on the rail for supporting the at least one material handling device. 13. The end effector as claimed in claim 7 wherein the locking means includes at least one pneumatic cylinder. 14. The end effector as claimed in claim 9 wherein each of the suction devices includes a suction cup. 15. The end effector as claimed in claim 14 wherein each of the suction devices includes a vacuum generator mounted on the base frame and in fluid communication with its respective suction cup. 16. The end effector as claimed in claim 14 further comprising springs for biasing the suction cups so that the suction cups are biased in a direction substantially normal to compliance provided by the compliance device. 17. The end effector as claimed in claim 7 further comprising a sensor supported thereon for generating a signal which can be utilized to determine location of the at least one sheet of material within the storage container. 18. The end effector as claimed in claim 17 wherein the sensor is a non-contact sensor. 