Disclosed is a manufacturing system having isolated islands of "clean room" environment connected by inter-process transfer containers for transfering in-process workpieces. The system has airlock transfer ports between the process enclosures and the inter-process transfer containers. The make and break airlock transfer ports have facing sealable doors in the process enclosure and the transfer container. These doors are in air sealable facing recesses of the process enclosure and the transfer container. At least one peripheral gasket surrounds the recesses and the pair of doors. This provides a substantially clean room environment in the airlock. The sealable door in the interprocess transfer container is fabricated of a ferromagnetic material and is seated on a ferromagnetic gasket, while the sealable door in the process enclosure has a controllable electromagnetic clamp. After establishment of an airtight seal between the two recesses, the doors are opened by activating the electromagnetic clamp in the process enclosure door to pull the ferromagnetic door in the interprocess transfer container away from the ferromagnetic gasket. The results in the simultaneous opening of the of the process enclosure door and the ferromagnetic interprocess transfer container door, while avoiding contamination inside either of the containers.
Claims It is claimed: 1. An airlock transfer port between a process enclosure and an inter-process transfer container comprising: (1) facing sealable doors in the process enclosure and the transfer container, wherein: a. the sealable doors are in air sealable facing recesses of the process enclosure and the transfer container, with at least one first peripheral gasket surrounding the recesses and the pair of doors to provide a substantially clean room environment in the airlock, b. the sealable door in the process enclosure has controllable electromagnetic clamping means, and c. the sealable door in the interprocess transfer container is a ferromagnetic door comprising a ferromagnetic material; (2) a ferromagnetic gasket between the sealable, ferromagnetic door in the interprocess transfer container and the process enclosure to provide a magnetic seal therebetween; (3) means for activating the electromagnetic clamping means in the process enclosure door and attracting the ferromagnetic door in the interprocess transfer container away from the ferromagnetic gasket; and (4) means for simultaneously opening the process enclosure door and the ferromagnetic interprocess transfer container door. 2. The airlock transfer port of claim 1 comprising second peripheral gasket means to sealably isolate, between the doors and the first and second gasket means, surface contamination on either or both of the doors. 3. The airlock transfer port of claim 1 wherein the process enclosure door has an attachment point for a robotic arm, and the transfer port comprises robotic means to sequentially first activate the electromagnet and to thereafter open the magnetically clamped doors. 4. A manufacturing system comprising a plurality of isolated process enclosures, with movable interprocess transfer containers for transferring workpieces therebetween, said process enclosures and interprocess transfer containers having (1) recesses adapted to face each other in gasketable, air sealable relationship; (2) sealable doors in the gasketable, air sealable recesses of the process enclosure and the transfer container, with at least one first peripheral gasket surrounding one of the recesses and doors to provide a sealed environment for forming temporary airlocks therebetween for transfer of workpieces, (3) controllable electromagnetic clamping means in the process enclosure door; (4) ferromagnetic material in a sealable ferromagnetic interprocess container door of the interprocess transfer container; (5) a ferromagnetic gasket between the sealable, ferromagnetic door in the interprocess transfer container and the process enclosure to provide a magnetic seal therebetween; (6) means for activating the electromagnetic clamping means in the process enclosure door and attracting the sealable ferromagnetic door in the interprocess transfer container away from the ferromagnetic gasket; and (7) means for simultaneously opening the process enclosure door and the interprocess transfer container ferromagnetic door. 5. The manufacturing system of claim 4 comprising second peripheral gasket means to sealably isolate, between the doors and the second gasket means, surface contamination on either or both of the doors. 6. The manufacturing system of claim 1 wherein the process enclosure door has an attachment point for a robotic arm, and the process enclosure comprises robotic means to sequentially first activate the electromagnet and to thereafter open the magnetically clamped doors. 