An apparatus in accordance with the present invention provides a single or multi-layer coating to the surface of a plurality of substrates. The apparatus may include a plurality of buffer and sputtering chambers, and an input end and an output end, wherein said substrates are transported through said chambers of said apparatus at varying rates of speed such that the rate of speed of a pallet from said input end to said output end is a constant for each of said plurality of pallets. A high throughput sputtering apparatus having a plurality of integrally matched components in accordance with the present invention may further include means for transporting a plurality of substrates through said sputtering chambers at variable velocities; means for reducing the ambient pressure within said sputtering chambers to a vacuum level within a pressure range sufficient to enable sputtering operation; means for heating said plurality of substrates to a temperature conducive to sputtering said coatings thereon, said means for heating providing a substantially uniform temperature profile over the surface of said substrates; and control means for providing control signals to and for receiving feedback input from, said sputtering chambers, means for transporting, means for reducing, and means for heating, said control means being programmable for allowing control over said means for sputtering, means for transporting, means for reducing and means for heating.
Claims We claim: 1. A high throughput, in-line sputtering apparatus for providing a single or multi-layer magnetic coating to the surface of a plurality of disk substrates, the plurality of substrates being provided in a planar disk carrier having a top and bottom, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of buffer chambers and a plurality of sputtering chambers; an input end and an output end, the buffer and sputtering chambers being positioned between the input end and the output end, wherein at least one buffer chamber is disposed between a first and second ones of the plurality of sputtering chambers; and a transport system moving the disk carrier through said buffer and sputtering chambers of said apparatus in a continuous motion at at least a first rate and a second, different rate of speed, the transport system including a coupling mechanism securing the disk carrier at the top of the disk carrier such that the disk carrier is suspended from the coupling mechanism during movement in the chambers of the apparatus. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transport system moves the carrier through a first of the plurality of the sputtering chambers at the first rate of speed and through a second of the plurality of sputtering chambers at the second rate of speed. 3. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 2 wherein said input end includes an entrance lock chamber, a stationary heater chamber, and a passby heater chamber, and said output end includes an exit lock, the exit lock comprising an exit buffer chamber and an exit lock chamber, and wherein said disk carrier is transported in a continuous motion from said passby heater to said exit buffer chamber. 4. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 2 wherein said apparatus further includes an evacuation system for reducing the ambient pressure within the buffer and sputtering chambers, and a control system, coupled to the evacuation system and transport system. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the sputtering chambers are reduced to an ambient pressure in a range of between 2-12 mTorr during sputtering of the substrates. 6. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first rate of speed is in a range of approximately 2.0 to 5.9 ft. per min., and the second rate of speed is in a range of approximately 6.0 to 12.0 ft. per min. 7. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 6 wherein the disk carrier is transported through said first and second of said plurality of sputtering chambers at at least the first and the second rate of speed, respectively, and through at least one buffer chamber at a third rate of speed, wherein the first rate of speed is in a range of approximately 2.7 to 3.0 ft. per min., the second rate of speed is approximately 6.0 to 7.5 ft. per min., and the third rate of speed is approximately 12.0 ft. per min. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of the sputter chambers is evacuated by the vacuum system to a pressure in the range of 1-12 mTorr. 9. A high throughput, in-line sputtering apparatus for applying a magnetic coating to the surface of a plurality of disk substrates, the substrates being provided in a substrate carrier, said apparatus comprising: means for sputtering a multi-layer coating onto the plurality of substrates, said means for sputtering including a series of sputtering chambers, and at least one buffer chamber disposed between ones of said series of sputtering chambers, isolated from ambient atmospheric conditions; means for transporting said plurality of substrates through said means for sputtering, the means for transporting coupled to the substrate carrier such that the substrate carrier is suspended from a top portion of the substrate carrier and transported through the apparatus at at least a first velocity and a second, different velocity; means for evacuating said means for sputtering to a vacuum level within a pressure range sufficient to enable sputtering operation; means for heating said plurality of substrates to a temperature conducive to sputtering said multi-layer coatings thereon, said means for heating providing a substantially uniform temperature profile over the surface of said substrate; and control means for providing control signals to, and for receiving feedback input from, said means for sputtering, means for transporting, means for evacuating, and means for heating, said control means being programmable to automatically control said means for sputtering, means for transporting, means for evacuating and means for heating to synchronize said means for sputtering, means for transporting, and means for heating, the control means providing the feedback input to a user interface and being responsive to input from the user interface; wherein the control means alters the control signals in real time responsive to the input from the user interface. 10. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 9 wherein the pressure range provided by the means for evacuating is less than 20 mTorr. 11. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 9 wherein said means for transporting moves the substrate at the first velocity through a first of the plurality of sputtering chambers, and at the second velocity through a second of the series of sputtering chambers. 12. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 11, wherein said means for sputtering further includes a series of buffer chambers interposed between said ones of said series of sputtering chambers, to provide said relative isolation of each sputtering chamber and wherein said means for transporting moves the substrates at a third velocity through said buffer chambers. 13. The sputtering apparatus of claim 11, wherein said control means includes position sensor means for detecting a position of the substrate carrier in the apparatus, heat detector means for determining the heat of the substrate within the apparatus, pressure detection means for determining the atmospheric pressure within the means for sputtering, and at least one microprocessing unit, for operating control software, said position detecting means, heat detecting means, and pressure detecting means comprising the feedback input to the control means, said software providing a user interface for the system operator. 14. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 9 wherein a plurality of substrate carriers are simultaneously processed by the apparatus, each of said plurality of substrate carriers is coupled to and suspended from the means for transporting, and said means for transporting moves one of said plurality of substrate carriers at at least the first velocity and another one of said plurality of substrate carriers at the second velocity when said respective substrate carriers are moving in a respective first and second ones of said sputtering chambers. 15. The sputtering apparatus of claim 14, wherein said first velocity is in a range of 2.7 to 3.0 ft. per min., and said second velocity is in a range of 6.0 to 12.0 ft. per min. 16. The sputtering apparatus of claim 14, wherein the means for heating includes a dwell heater chamber wherein the substrate carriers are maintained in an at rest position for a pre-determined period of time, and a passby heater chamber, through which the substrate carrier is transported at the first or second velocity. 17. An in-line, high throughput sputtering apparatus applying magnetic coatings to a plurality of disk substrates in a pallet, the pallet having a planar shape, a top and a bottom, comprising: control means for providing control signals and for monitoring a plurality of sensory input signals; an entrance lock chamber and an exit lock chamber; a plurality of sequential sputtering chambers positioned between the entrance lock chamber and the exit lock chamber; a transport system responsive to a first subset of said control signals and supporting the pallets at the top of the pallet, the entrance lock, and the exit lock, the transport system carrying said pallet at a first velocity of a minimum of about 2.5 ft/min through each of said plurality of sputtering chambers, and carrying said pallet at a second, different velocity in one of said sputtering chambers, the transport system including a first set of means for providing said sensory input signals to said control means; means for evacuating the apparatus to a reduced pressure level within a pressure range to enable sputtering operation responsive to said control means, said means for reducing including a second set of means for providing said sensory input signals to said control means; means for heating said plurality of substrates to an ambient temperature, said temperature having a substantially uniform profile over the surface of each said substrate and said pallet, said means for heating including a third set of means for providing said sensory input signals to said control means; and means for sputtering a multi-layer coating onto said substrate responsive to said control means, said means for sputtering including a third set of means for providing said sensory input signals to said control means. 18. The high throughput sputtering apparatus of claim 17 wherein the pressure level provided by the means for evacuating is in a range of 9-12 mTorr during sputtering. 19. The sputtering apparatus of claim 17 wherein the means for transporting includes a plurality of individual transport stages respectively corresponding to the sputtering chambers, and a plurality of motors, one of said plurality of motors being associated with each of said plurality of individual stages and governing motion of the pallet through the sputtering chamber. 20. The sputtering apparatus of claim 19 wherein the means for heating includes a stationary heating chamber and a passby heating chamber, wherein the pallet is transported through the passby heating chamber at said first or second velocity. 21. The sputtering apparatus of claim 19 wherein the control means is coupled to each of said plurality of individual sputtering chambers and each of said motors, and wherein a plurality of position detectors is associated with each of said individual stages, the outputs of each of the position detectors comprising a subset of the first set of means for providing sensory input signals to said control means, wherein said control means individually controls the velocity of the pallet at each of said individual stages. 22. An in-line sputtering apparatus for applying magnetic coatings to disk substrates, comprising: an input chamber; an output chamber; a plurality of sputter and buffer chambers wherein at least one buffer chamber is disposed between a first and second ones of the plurality of sputter chambers; a transport system including a plurality of pallets, each having a planar shape, a top portion and a bottom portion, and each supporting a plurality of the disk substrates, means for suspending each of the pallets from the top portion of each pallet, and for moving the pallet through the apparatus through the input, output, sputter and buffer chambers, and means for moving the means for suspending, from the input end to the output end, in continuous motion through the sputter and buffer chambers, at a first velocity and a second, different velocity; a pumping system for evacuating the input, output, sputter and buffer chambers; and a control system coupled to the pumping system, input, output, sputter and buffer chambers, and transport system. 23. An in-line sputtering apparatus for applying magnetic coatings to disk substrates, comprising: an input chamber; an output chamber; a plurality of sputter and buffer chambers wherein at least one buffer chamber is disposed between a first and second ones of the plurality of sputter chambers; a transport system including a plurality of pallets, each having a planar shape, a top portion and a bottom portion, and each supporting a plurality of the disk substrates, an overhead carrier coupling each of the pallets from the top portion of each pallet, and transporting each pallet through the apparatus through the input, output, sputter and buffer chambers, and a plurality of motors for moving the overhead carrier at a first velocity and a second, different velocity through the sputter and buffer chambers; a pumping system for evacuating the input, output, sputter and buffer chambers; and a control system coupled to the pumping system, input, output, sputter and buffer chambers, and transport system. 