An apparatus for interfacing between a human operator and a manufacturing cell having a plurality of mechanical units for assembling components and subassemblies includes a video monitor responsive to display signals for generating to the human operator a graphic display of information related to a selected one of a plurality of mechanical units in the manufacturing cell. An input device such as a mouse is responsive to the human operator for generating command signals representing desired changes to the graphic display including information as to which of the mechanical units is selected and a size and direction of application of a software shim to be applied to the selected mechanical unit. A data processing means is connected to the video monitor and to the input device, is responsive to the command signals for generating control signals and is responsive to position signals for generating the display signals. The data processing means is connected to the manufacturing cell for receiving the position signals generated by the selected mechanical unit representing a predetermined master position of the selected mechanical unit and the mechanical unit is responsive to the control signals for repositioning to a new desired represented by the command signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for interfacing between a human operator and a programmable fixture for assembling components and subassemblies comprising: an interface means including an output means responsive to display signals for generating to a human operator a graphic display of information related to a programmable fixture and including input means responsive to the human operator for generating command signals representing desired changes to said graphic display of information; and a data processing means connected to said interface means, being responsive to said command signals for generating control signals and being responsive to position signals for generating said display signals, said data processing means being adapted to be connected to a programmable fixture whereby when said data processing means is connected to the programmable fixture, the programmable fixture generates said position signals representing a predetermined master position of the programmable fixture and is responsive to said control signals for repositioning to a new desired position represented by said command signals and wherein said graphic display is a shim utility screen displaying a plurality of parameters defining said desired position of the programmable fixture relative to a current position of the programmable fixture and including a manufacturing cell display area having a graphical representation of a position of the programmable fixture relative to a common reference point. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a shim size display area having a visual indication of a size of a software shim to be applied to the programmable fixture. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said shim size display area has a visual indication of a direction in which the software shim is to be applied to the programmable fixture. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a function selected display area having a visual indication of a function selected, a mechanical unit selected and a style selected for the programmable fixture. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a message display area having a visual indication of operating messages and error messages. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a shim history display area having a visual indication of software shims previously applied to the programmable fixture. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said display further is a position edit utility screen including a position display area having a visual indication of said master position and of said current position of the programmable fixture relative to the common reference point. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said graphic display further is a frame edit utility screen including a style frame edit display area having a visual indication of information representing a style selected for the programmable fixture. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said graphic display further is a monitor utility screen including a positioner display area having a visual indication of information representing a status of the programmable fixture and a manufacturing cell display area having a visual indication of information representing a status of a manufacturing cell in which the programmable fixture is located. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said graphic display includes an icon and title bar display area having a graphical representation of icons on software buttons representing operations to be performed by said data processing means. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said graphic display includes a tab bar display area having a graphical representation of software tabs representing operations to be performed by said data processing means. 12. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said graphic display includes a tab bar display area having a graphical representation of software tabs representing operations to be performed by said data processing means. 13. An apparatus for interfacing between a human operator and a programmable fixture for assembling components and subassemblies comprising: a video monitor responsive to display signals for generating to a human operator a graphic display of information related to a programmable fixture; an input means responsive to the human operator for generating command signals representing desired changes to said graphic display of information; and a data processing means connected to said video monitor and to said input means, being responsive to said command signals for generating control signals and being responsive to position signals for generating said display signals, said data processing means being adapted to be connected to a programmable fixture whereby when said data processing means is connected to the programmable fixture, the programmable fixture generates said position signals representing a predetermined master position of the programmable fixture and is responsive to said control signals for repositioning to a new desired position represented by said command signals and wherein said graphic display is a shim utility screen displaying a plurality of parameters defining said desired position of the programmable fixture relative to a current position of the programmable fixture and including a manufacturing cell display area having a graphical representation of a position of the programmable fixture relative to a common reference point. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said input means includes a mouse. 15. An apparatus for interfacing between a human operator and a manufacturing cell having a plurality of mechanical units for assembling components and subassemblies comprising: a video monitor responsive to display signals for generating to a human operator a graphic display of information related to a selected one of a plurality of mechanical units in a manufacturing cell; an input means responsive to the human operator for generating command signals representing desired changes to said graphic display of information, said command signals including information as to which of said mechanical units is selected and a size and direction of application of a software shim to be applied to the selected mechanical unit; and a data processing means connected to said video monitor and to said input means, being responsive to said command signals for generating control signals and being responsive to position signals for generating said display signals, said data processing means being adapted to be connected to a manufacturing cell having a plurality of mechanical units whereby when said data processing means is connected to the manufacturing cell, the selected mechanical unit generates said position signals representing a predetermined master position of the selected mechanical unit and is responsive to said control signals for repositioning to a new desired position represented by said command signals. 16. The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said graphic display is a shim utility screen including a manufacturing cell display area having a graphical representation of a position of the selected mechanical unit relative to a common reference point and a shim size display area having a visual indication of the size and the direction of application of the software shim to be applied to the mechanical unit. 17. A method of interfacing between a human operator and a programmable fixture for assembling components and subassemblies comprising the steps of: a. generating position signals representing a predetermined master position of a programmable fixture; b. generating display signals in response to said position signals; c. generating a graphic display of information related to a programmable fixture from said display signals; d. generating command signals representing desired changes to said graphic display of information; e. generating control signals in response to said command signals; and f. repositioning the programmable fixture to a new desired position represented by said command signals wherein said step c. is performed by generating said graphic display as a shim utility screen displaying a plurality of parameters defining said desired position of the programmable fixture relative to a current position of the programmable fixture and including a manufacturing cell display area having a graphical representation of a position of the programmable fixture relative to a common reference point. 18. The method according to claim 17 wherein said step c. is further performed by generating said graphic display as a monitor utility screen including a positioner display area having a visual indication of information representing a status of the programmable fixture and a manufacturing cell display area having a visual indication of information representing a status of a manufacturing cell in which the programmable fixture is located. 