An inspection system and an inspection method, the method including detecting flaws on a surface, determining the size, count, and position of flaws on the surface, providing a representation of the detected flaws by size, count, and position on a display, setting a display threshold value which is a function of a number of particles of a particular size to be displayed on the display, determining when the display threshold is breached and in response adjusting the display to cease displaying those flaws, storing at least one inspection threshold value, and determining when the inspection threshold value is breached and in response outputting an inspection interrupt signal to stop the inspection after the inspection threshold value is breached.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surface inspection system comprising: a plurality of inspection stations in which a first said station has a first sensitivity and a first inspection time and a second said station has a second sensitivity and a second inspection time, the second sensitivity being greater than the first sensitivity, the second inspection time being longer than the first inspection time; means for translating a surface to be inspected to each station; means for storing at least one inspection threshold value; means for determining if said inspection threshold value has been exceeded and in response for outputting an inspection interrupt signal which stops the inspection. 2. The system of claim 1 in which a said inspection threshold value is a function of at least one of the size, location, and the number of particles detected at one inspection station. 3. The system of claim 1 in which said inspection threshold value is a function of at least one of the size, location, and number of particles detected at each inspection station. 4. The system of claim 1 in which said inspection threshold value is a function of a number of particles of a particular size. 5. The system of claim 1 in which said means for translating is programmable to translate a surface between inspection stations in a predetermined order. 6. The system of claim 5 in which said means for determining automatically interrupts said predetermined order whenever said inspection threshold value is exceeded. 7. The system of claim 1 in which said means for determining outputs an interrupt signal which prevents translation of a surface to said second station if said inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at said first station. 8. The system of claim 1 in which said means for determining outputs an interrupt signal which prevents further inspection of a surface at said second station when said inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at said second station. 9. The system of claim 1 in which said means for determining outputs an interrupt signal which prevents further inspection of a surface if said inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at one of said first and second stations. 10. A surface inspection method comprising: translating a surface to be inspected to a plurality of inspection stations; storing at least one inspection threshold value; determining if said inspection threshold value has been exceeded and in response outputting an inspection interrupt signal; and preventing further inspection of a surface at a station if said inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at said station. 11. The method of claim 10 in which a said inspection threshold value is a function of at least one of the size, location, and a number of particles detected at one inspection station. 12. The method of claim 10 in which said inspection threshold value is a function of at least one of the size, location, and a number of particles detected at each inspection station. 13. The method of claim 10 in which said inspection threshold value is a function of the number of particles of a particular size. 14. The method of claim 10 in which translating includes translating a surface between inspection stations in a predetermined order. 15. The method of claim 14 in which determining includes automatically interrupting said predetermined order whenever said inspection threshold value is exceeded. 16. The method of claim 10 in which determining includes outputting an interrupt signal which prevents translation of the surface to a second station if said inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at a first station. 17. A surface inspection system comprising: a first station with a first sensitivity and a first inspection time; a second station with a second sensitivity and a second inspection time, the second sensitivity being greater than the first sensitivity, the second inspection time being longer than the first inspection time; means for translating a surface to be inspected to the first station and thereafter to the second station; means for storing at least one inspection threshold value; and means for determining if said inspection threshold value has been exceed and in response for outputting an inspection interrupt signal which stops the inspection and prevents translation of the surface to said second station if said inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at said first station. 18. The system of claim 17 in which said means for determining outputs an interrupt signal which prevents further inspection of a surface at the second station when the inspection threshold value is breached during inspection at the second inspection station. 