A system and method related to dispensing and disposing medical items is provided. The dispensing portion is generally configured to dispense medical items stored within compartments based on dispensing instructions. The disposal portion is generally configured to sort waste items into a plurality of containers according to applicable rules and regulations governing the handling and/or disposal of such items. In some embodiments, a system comprises sorting stations each of which houses a number of disposable containers. Each station can identify an item of waste, determine the most appropriate container for the item, and facilitate disposal of the item in the appropriate container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for dispensing and disposing medical items, comprising: a dispensing portion comprising: a plurality of dispensing compartments, each of said dispensing compartments configured to hold at least one medical item; a dispensing data entry device configured to receive at least one dispensing instruction; and a dispensing control system, wherein said dispensing control system is configured to process said at least one dispensing instruction to select a medical item based on said dispensing instruction, and wherein said dispensing control system is configured to allow access to said selected medical item; and a disposal portion comprising: a plurality of waste containers, wherein each of said waste containers is associated with at least one of a plurality of waste categories; wherein at least one of said waste containers is configured to receive at least one of said selected medical items that is dispensed by said dispensing portion after said selected medical item is at least partially used or expired; a waste item identification device configured to receive identification data for a waste item, wherein said waste item identification device comprises a scanner; a waste database comprising waste item classification information, said waste item classification information being derived from applicable rules regarding disposal; and a disposal control system configured to compare identification data received by the waste item identification device with information contained in the database, wherein the disposal control system is configured to assign a waste item to at least one waste category, and wherein the disposal control system is configured to identify one of the waste containers based on the waste category; wherein the disposal control system is configured to allow access to the identified waste container while preventing access to other waste containers of the disposal portion to ensure proper disposal; and wherein said dispensing portion and said disposal portion are coupled. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing portion and said disposal portion form a single integral device. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing data entry device is physically connected to or integral with the dispensing compartments. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing data entry device comprises a barcode scanner that is configured to scan said dispensing instruction. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing data entry device comprises a keypad for manual entry of said dispensing instruction. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said waste containers is configured to automatically lock after receipt of a waste item. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one dispensing compartment comprises a closure member, said closure member being configured to move between an open and a closed position. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the dispensing data entry device comprises a keypad. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the dispensing portion further comprises a display. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing data entry device and the waste item identification device are a single unit. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the waste item identification device comprises a handheld device that is physically separated from the waste containers. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the waste database is located on a remote server which is physically separated from the control system. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the waste item identification device comprises a RFID scanner that is configured to scan the waste item. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the waste item identification device comprises a barcode scanner that is configured to scan the waste item. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the disposal portion further comprises a data entry device, said waste data entry device configured to receive information regarding a waste item. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the waste data entry device comprises a keypad. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the disposal portion and the dispensing portion comprise a unitary member. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein said dispensing data entry device comprises a handheld device that is physically separated from the dispensing compartments. 19. A system for dispensing and disposing a plurality of medical items, comprising: a disposal portion comprising: a plurality of waste containers, wherein each of said waste containers is associated with at least one of a plurality of waste categories; and a waste item identification device configured to receive identification data for a waste item, wherein said waste item identification device comprises a scanner; wherein the system is configured to identify at least one of the waste containers based on the identification data received by the waste item identification device; a disposal control system configured to compare identification data received by the waste item identification device to a waste database, said waste database comprising waste item classification information derived from, at least in part, applicable rules regarding disposal; wherein the disposal control s stem is configured to classify the waste item into one of the plurality of waste categories and to allow access to one of the waste containers based on, at least in part, the identification data and the waste item classification information, while preventing access to other waste containers of a waste sorting station to ensure proper disposal; a dispensing portion comprising: a plurality of dispensing compartments, each of said dispensing compartments configured to hold at least one dispensable item; a data entry device configured to receive a dispensing instruction; and a dispensing control system configured to process a dispensing instruction and allow access to an interior of a corresponding dispensing compartment. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the system is further configured to notify a user of the identified waste container. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the system is configured to notify a user of the identified waste container by exposing an opening in said waste container. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein the waste item identification device comprises a barcode scanner that is configured to scan the waste item. 23. The system of claim 19, wherein the data entry device comprises a keypad. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein the waste items comprise pharmaceutical waste. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein the waste item identification device comprises a RFID scanner that is configured to scan the waste item. 