A highly efficient Automated Material Handling System (AMHS) that allows an overhead hoist transport vehicle to load and unload Work-In-Process (WIP) parts directly to/from one or more WIP storage units included in the system. The AMHS includes an overhead hoist transport subsystem and at least one vertical carousel stocker having a plurality of storage bins. The overhead hoist transport subsystem includes an overhead hoist transport vehicle traveling along a suspended track defining a predetermined route, which runs adjacent to the carousel stocker, thereby allowing the overhead hoist transport vehicle to access a WIP part directly from one of the storage bins. At least one of the storage bins includes a movable shelf operative to move laterally from a first position along the carousel path to a second position near the overhead hoist transport vehicle. The storage unit is at least partially open to allow the movable shelf to move to the second position, thereby allowing the overhead hoist to access a material unit directly from the movable shelf for subsequent transport along the track between various locations within a product manufacturing facility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated material handling system comprising: an overhead hoist transport subsystem comprising at least one overhead hoist and at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle, the at least one overhead hoist comprising a translating stage and a gripper portion coupled to the translating stage, the gripper portion being configured to grip a material unit; wherein the translating stage is configured to vertically move the gripper portion configured to grip the material unit from a first position proximate to the at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle to at least one of a second position proximate to a load port and a third position proximate to a storage location; wherein the overhead hoist transport subsystem is configured to load the material unit on at least one of the load port and the storage location; wherein the load port is beneath an overhead rail; and wherein at least a portion of the storage location is disposed lateral to the overhead rail. 2. The automated material handling system of claim 1, wherein the material unit comprises a cassette pod. 3. The automated material handling system of claim 1, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to move in a downwards vertical direction towards the load port and to place the material unit on the load port. 4. The automated material handling system of claim 3, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to retract to a starting position after placing the material unit on the load port. 5. The automated material handling system of claim 1, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to move in a downwards vertical direction towards the storage location and to place the material unit on the storage location. 6. The automated material handling system of claim 5, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to retract to a starting position after placing the material unit on the storage location. 7. The automated material handling system of claim 1, wherein the load port is disposed on an integrated circuit chip manufacturing floor. 8. The automated material handling system of claim 1, wherein the at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle is configured to extend a first distance below an integrated circuit chip manufacturing ceiling and a second distance above an integrated circuit chip manufacturing floor, with the load port being substantially disposed at the second distance from the integrated circuit chip manufacturing floor and at the first distance from the integrated circuit chip manufacturing floor ceiling. 9. An automated material handling system comprising: an overhead hoist transport subsystem comprising at least one overhead hoist and at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle, the at least one overhead hoist comprising a translating stage and a gripper portion coupled to the translating stage, the gripper portion being configured to grip a material unit; wherein the translating stage is configured to vertically move the gripper portion configured to grip the material unit from a first position proximate to the at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle to at least one of a second position proximate to a load port and a third position proximate to a conveyer; wherein the overhead hoist transport subsystem is configured to load the material unit on at least one of the load port and the conveyer; wherein the load port is beneath an overhead rail; and wherein at least a portion of the conveyer is disposed lateral to the overhead rail. 10. The automated material handling system of claim 9, wherein the material unit comprises a cassette pod. 11. The automated material handling system of claim 9, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to move in a downwards vertical direction towards the conveyer and to place the material unit on the conveyer. 12. The automated material handling system of claim 11, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to retract to a starting position after placing the material unit on the conveyer. 13. The automated material handling system of claim 9, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to move in a downwards vertical direction towards the load port and to place the material unit on the load port. 14. The automated material handling system of claim 13, wherein the gripper portion is further configured to retract to a starting position after placing the material unit on the load port. 15. A method of operating an automated material handling system, the method comprising: carrying an overhead hoist and at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle to at least one of a first position proximate to a load port and a second position proximate to a storage location, with the at least one overhead hoist transport vehicle comprising a translating stage and a gripper portion coupled to the translating stage, with the gripper portion configured to grip a material unit; vertically moving the gripper portion and the translating stage downward to at least one of a third position above the load port and a fourth position above the storage location; and loading the material unit on at least one of the load port and the storage location; wherein the load port is beneath an overhead rail; and wherein at least a portion of the storage location is disposed lateral to the overhead rail. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the material unit comprises a cassette pod. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: retracting the gripper portion to a starting position after loading the material unit on the at least one of the load port and the storage location. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the load port is disposed on an integrated circuit chip manufacturing floor. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein loading the material unit comprises: placing the material unit on the storage location by releasing the material unit from the gripper portion. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein loading the material unit further comprises: placing the material unit on the load port by releasing the material unit from the gripper portion. 