An apparatus and method for navigating a vehicle along a predetermined route use route data and path data to define the predetermined route. The route data represents one or more contiguous path segments between adjacent nodes along the predetermined route. The path data includes postures of the vehicle along each of the path segments. The postures define the desired position, heading, curvature and speed of vehicle at various locations along the path segments. The apparatus and method use the posture information to generate and track a path thereby allowing the vehicle to navigate along the predetermined route.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for navigating a vehicle along a predetermined route comprising: means for storing route data representing the predetermined route, said route data including a plurality of contiguous path segments, each path segment connecting two nodes; means for storing path data for the predetermined route, said path data including postures of the vehicle along each path segment; means for retrieving from said route data storing means route data representing the predetermined route; means for retrieving from said path data storing means path data for said retrieved route data; means for generating a path from said retrieved path data, said path representing at least a portion of said predetermined route; means for associating vehicle commands with said path; means for executing said associated vehicle commands to cause the vehicle to follow said path; means for periodically calculating errors in following said path; and means, responsive to said calculated errors, for adjusting execution of said associated vehicle commands to reduce said calculated errors so that the vehicle tracks said path with a high degree of accuracy. 2. The system for navigating a vehicle along a route of claim 1, wherein said means for periodically calculating errors in following said path comprises: means for determining an actual position of the vehicle; means for determining a desired position of the vehicle; means for comparing said actual position with said desired position thereby calculating said errors in following said path. 3. The system for navigating a vehicle along a route of claim 1, wherein said means, responsive to said calculated errors, for adjusting the execution of said associated vehicle commands to reduce said calculated errors so that the vehicle tracks said path with a high degree of accuracy comprises: means for dynamically determining a correcting steering angle so that said correcting steering angle causes the vehicle to steer from an actual position to a desired position. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising: means for detecting obstacles in a vehicle's direction of travel; and means for avoiding collision with said obstacles. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for avoiding collision comprises means for stopping the vehicle to prevent a collision with said obstacles. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for avoiding collision comprises means for generating a second path around said obstacles. 7. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for avoiding collision comprises: means for stopping the vehicle to prevent a collision with said obstacles; and means for generating a second path around said obstacles. 8. A method of navigating a vehicle along a predetermined route comprising the steps of: (1) storing route data representing the predetermined route, said route data including a plurality of path segments, each path segment connecting two nodes; (2) storing path data for the predetermined route, said path data including postures of the vehicle along each path segments; (3) retrieving route data representing the predetermined route; (4) retrieving path data for said retrieved route data; (5) generating a path from said retrieved path data, said path representing at least a portion of the predetermined route; (6) associating vehicle commands with said generated path; (7) executing associated vehicle commands to cause the vehicle to attempt to follow said generated path; (8) periodically calculating errors in following said generated path; and (9) adjusting, in accordance with said calculated errors, execution of associated vehicle commands to reduce said calculated errors so that the vehicle tracks said generated path with a high degree of accuracy. 9. The method of navigating a vehicle along a route of claim 8, wherein said step of periodically calculating errors in following a generated path comprises: (a) determining an actual position of the vehicle; (b) determining a desired position of the vehicle; and (c) comparing said actual position with said desired position; thereby calculating said errors in following said generated path. 10. The method of navigating a vehicle along a route of claim 8, wherein said step of adjusting, responsive to calculated errors, execution of associated vehicle commands to reduce said calculated errors so that said vehicle tracks a generated path with a high degree of accuracy comprises: (a) dynamically determining a correcting steering angle so that said correcting steering angle causes said vehicle to steer from an actual position to a desired position. 11. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: (11) detecting obstacles in the vehicle's direction of travel; and (12) avoiding collision with said obstacles. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of avoiding collision with said obstacles comprises: (a) stopping the vehicle to prevent a collision with said obstacles. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of avoiding collision with said obstacles comprises: (a) generating a second path around said obstacles. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said step of avoiding collision with said obstacles comprises: (a) stopping the vehicle to prevent a collision with said obstacles; and (b) generating a second path around said obstacles. 