An automated method for high speed production rates in the hydration of soft contact lenses. The method includes the use of robotic transfer equipment to transfer contact lens molds containing contact lenses to and from a hydration station and a flushing station.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated method for hydrating a molded hydrophilic contact lens, said automated method comprising: (a) removing a plurality of contact lens molds from at least one carrier, each mold having a contact lens therein, and automatically assembling said molds with a lens transfer plate to form a first hydration carrier; (b) immersing said first hydration carrier in a hydration bath at a speed not exceeding 40 mm per second with robotic handling to hydrate the lens and release said lens from said mold, and allow each of said lenses to transfer from its respective mold to a related lens transfer surface carries by said first hydration carrier, (c) removing said first hydration carriers from said bath with robotic handling after said transfer; (d) removing said molds from said lens transfer plate and transporting said lens transfer plate and said lenses to a subsequent processing station. 2. An automated method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said molds are removed from said at least one carrier by a registering a lens transfer plate at a first location and placing it on a plurality of contact lens molds carried by one or more pallet carriers. 3. An automated method as claimed in claim 2, which further includes the step of engaging each of said individual contact lens molds with at least one clip mounted on said lens transfer plate which secures said molds to said transfer plate during transport thereof. 4. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said method further includes the step of securing the lens to said transfer surface with surface tension during said transport step. 5. An automated method as claimed in claim 3, wherein said lens transfer plate further includes a pair of clips for engaging each of said individual contact lens molds, and securing each of said molds to a predefined position adjacent said related lens transfer surface. 6. An automated method as claimed in claim 5, wherein said lens transfer surface is convex and generally conforms to a concave surface of a contact lens to enable said convex lens transfer surface to hold a contact lens with surface tension. 7. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first hydration carrier is immersed in said hydration bath at a predetermined angle. 8. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first hydration carrier is immersed in said hydration bath at a predetermined angle. 9. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first hydration carrier is inverted and then immersed in said hydration bath with the contact lens molds positioned above the related lens transfer surface. 10. An automated method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said first hydration carrier is immersed at a predetermined angle of 45.degree. from the surface of the hydration bath, .+-.20.degree.. 11. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said the temperature of the hydration bath is maintained at a predetermined temperature ranging from 55.degree. C. to 90.degree. C. 12. An automated method as claimed in claim 11, wherein said predetermined temperature is 70.degree. C. 13. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hydration bath is a bath of deionized water with a surfactant therein. 14. An automated method as claimed in claim 13, wherein said surfactant ranges from 0.005% to 5% of said hydration bath. 15. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said removal step further includes the step of engaging said lens transfer plate with a reciprocating robotic handling device which reciprocates a plurality of ejectors through a plurality of openings designed by said lens transfer plate adjacent said molds, thereby dislodging said molds for said lens transfer plate. 16. An automated method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said hydration carrier is removed from said hydration bath at a speed that does not exceed 24 cm/sec. 17. An automated method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said hydration carriers are transported through the hydration bath with intermittent motion. 18. An automated method as claimed in claim 1, which further includes the step of introducing a fluid between each of said lens transfer surface and said lenses to release the lenses from the related lens transfer surfaces and transfer each of said lenses to a related concave holding surface for transport through subsequent processing stations. 19. An automated method as claimed in claim 18 which further includes the step of combining each said concave lens holding surfaces with a second lens transfer surface to form a second hydration carrier. 20. An automated method as claimed in claim 19, wherein said method further includes a plurality of extraction steps for intermittently flushing said second hydration carriers to flush the by-products of hydration from said carriers. 21. An automated method as claimed in claim 20, wherein said automated method further comprises the steps of intermittently advancing each of said second hydration carriers through a plurality of extraction stations for said extraction steps. 22. An automated method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said automated method sequences the transport and extraction steps with a digital controller. 23. An method apparatus for hydration a hydrophilic lens as claimed in claim 20 wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into said hydration carriers at each extraction station to flush leachable substances from the hydrating chambers. 24. An automated method as claimed in claim 23 wherein said method further includes an incremental residence time between each of said extraction stations to leach impurities from said contact lens through mass transfer exchange. 25. An automated method as claimed in claim 24 wherein an automatic digital controller controls said incremental reisdence time and the duration of the flow of deionized water through each hydration chamber. 26. An automated method as claimed in claim 25 wherein said total incremental residence time of said leach cycles is slightly more than seven minutes. 27. An automated method as claimed in claim 26 wherein the incremental residence time of a single leach cycle is approximately 72 seconds. 28. An automated method as claimed in claim 20 wherein said method further comprises the step of separating said second lens transfer surface from said concave lens holding surface while supplying a fluid to a port defined in said second lens transfer surface to ensure transfer of said lens to said concave lens holding surface prior to separation of said second hydration carrier. 