Methods, apparatus and computer program products for utilizing a plurality of processing elements to evaluate a linear expression of the form Ax+By+C wherein x and y are coordinates of pixels in a screen. X and y values are assigned to each of the plurality of processing elements and the plurality of processing elements are provided a plurality of multiples of at least one coefficients of the linear expression. The processing elements select from the plurality of multiples of at least one of the coefficients provided at least one multiple of a coefficient associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element. The processing elements then evaluate the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values and the selected multiple.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A computer implemented process for utilizing a plurality of processing elements to evaluate linear expressions of the form Ax+By+C wherein x and y are coordinates of pixels in a screen so as to provide pixel data for displaying pixels on a graphic display device, the method comprising: assigning a first set of x and y values to said plurality of processing elements; assigning a second set of x and y values to said plurality of processing elements wherein the x and y values of the second set of x and y values assigned to at least one of the processing elements are different from the x and y values of the first set of x and y values assigned to the at least one of the processing elements; providing to said plurality of processing elements a plurality of multiples of at least one coefficient of the linear expressions; and wherein at least one of said processing elements carries out the following steps for both the first and the second set of x and y values: selecting from the plurality of multiples of at least one of the coefficients provided at least one multiple of the at least one of the coefficients for each of the first and second set of x and y values assigned to the processing element wherein the multiple of the coefficients selected by the processing element based on the second set of x and y values assigned to the processing elements are different from the multiple of the coefficient selected by the processing element based on the x and y values of the first set of x and y values assigned to the processing element; evaluating expressions of the form Ax+By+C utilizing both the first and second set of assigned x and y values and the selected multiples and providing pixel data for displaying pixels on a graphic display device based on the results of said evaluating step. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of said assigning steps is carried out for each linear expression evaluated. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: dividing the screen into a plurality of screen regions; and wherein said assigning steps assign x and y values to the processing elements from one of the plurality of screen regions. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said providing, said selecting and said evaluating steps and at least one of said assigning steps are carried out for each linear expression associated with each of the plurality of screen regions. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising the steps of: providing intermediate values of said linear expression to the processing elements wherein the intermediate values include region offset values; and wherein each of the processing elements further carries out the following steps: selecting from the intermediate values provided at least one intermediate value associated with each of the first and second set of x and y values assigned to the processing element; and wherein said evaluating step comprises evaluating expressions of the form Ax+By+C utilizing both the first and second set of assigned x and y values and the selected multiples and the selected intermediate values. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said providing step provides the plurality of multiples of the coefficients to the processing elements over a plurality of buses wherein more than one multiple of the coefficients is simultaneously available to the processing elements. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said providing intermediate values step provides the intermediate values to the processing elements over a plurality of buses wherein more than one intermediate value is simultaneously available to the processing elements. 8. An apparatus for displaying graphic data on a screen of a graphics display device based on the evaluation of a linear expression of the form Ax+By+C wherein x and y are coordinates of pixels in the screen, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of processing elements; assignment means for dynamically assigning x and y values to each of said plurality of processing elements such that a first processing element of the plurality of processing elements may be assigned different x and y values independent of its relation to another processing element of the plurality of processing elements; means for providing to said plurality of processing elements a plurality of multiples of at least one coefficient of the linear expression; and each of said processing elements comprising: means for accepting a dynamic assignment of x and y values to be assigned to the processing element; means for selecting from said plurality of multiples of at least one of the coefficients at least one multiple of a coefficient associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element; and means for evaluating the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values and the selected multiple so as to provide graphic data for display on the screen of the display device. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said assignment means assigns x an y values to said processing elements for each linear expression evaluated. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: means for dividing the screen into a plurality of screen regions; and wherein said assignment means assigns x and y values to said processing elements from one of said plurality of screen regions. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising looping means for causing said assignment means to assign x and y values to each of said plurality of processing elements, said means for providing to provide to said plurality of processing elements a plurality of multiples of at least one coefficient of the linear expression, said means for selecting to select from said plurality of multiples of at least one of the coefficients at least one multiple of a coefficient associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element and said means for evaluating to evaluate the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values and the selected multiple for each linear expression associated with each of the plurality of screen regions. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: means for providing intermediate values of said linear expression to the processing elements wherein the intermediate values include region offset values; and wherein each of the processing elements further comprises: means for selecting from the intermediate values provided an intermediate value associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element; and wherein said means for evaluating further comprises means for evaluating the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values, the selected multiple and the selected intermediate values. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising: a plurality of buses connected to said plurality of processing elements; and wherein said means for providing provides the plurality of multiples of the coefficients to the processing elements over said plurality of buses wherein more than one multiple of the coefficients is simultaneously available to the processing elements. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising: a plurality of buses connected to said plurality of processing elements; and wherein said means for providing intermediate values provides the intermediate values to the processing elements over said plurality of buses wherein more than one intermediate value is simultaneously available to the processing elements. 15. A computer program product for evaluating a linear expression of the form Ax+By+C wherein x and y are coordinates of pixels in a screen so as to provide graphic data for displaying pixels on a graphics display device, utilizing a plurality of parallel processing elements, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code means embodied in said medium, said computer-readable program code means comprising: assignment computer readable program code means for dynamically assigning x and y values to each of said plurality of processing elements such that a first processing element of the plurality of processing elements may be assigned different x and y values independent of its relation to another processing element of the plurality of processing elements; computer readable program code means for providing to said plurality of processing elements a plurality of multiples of at least one coefficient of the linear expression; and selection computer readable program code means for causing said processing elements to select from said plurality of multiples of at least one of the coefficients at least one multiple of a coefficient associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element; and evaluation computer readable program code means for causing said processing elements to evaluate the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values and the selected multiple so as to provide graphic data for display on the screen of the display device. 16. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein said assignment computer readable program code means assigns x an y values to said processing elements for each linear expression evaluated. 17. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: computer readable program code means for dividing the screen into a plurality of screen regions; and wherein said assignment computer readable program code means assigns x and y values to said processing elements from one of said plurality of screen regions. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising looping computer readable program code means for causing said assignment computer readable program code means to assign x and y values to each of said plurality of processing elements, said computer readable program code means for providing to provide to said plurality of processing elements a plurality of multiples of at least one coefficients of the linear expression, said selection computer readable program code means to select from said plurality of multiples of at least one of the coefficients at least one multiple of a coefficient associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element and said evaluation computer readable program code means to evaluate the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values and the selected multiple for each linear expression associated with each of the plurality of screen regions. 19. The computer program product of claim 17 further comprising: computer readable program code means for providing intermediate values of said linear expression to the processing elements wherein the intermediate values include region offset values; and computer readable program code means for causing said processing element to select from the intermediate values provided an intermediate value associated with the x and y values assigned to the processing element; and wherein said evaluation computer readable program code means comprises computer readable program code means for evaluating the expression Ax+By+C based on the assigned x and y values, the selected multiple and the selected intermediate values. 20. The computer program product of claim 15 further comprising: wherein said computer readable program code means for providing provides the plurality of multiples of the coefficients to the processing elements over a plurality of buses wherein more than one multiple of the coefficients is simultaneously available to the processing elements. 21. The computer program product of claim 19 further comprising: wherein said computer readable program code means for providing intermediate values provides the intermediate values to the processing elements over a plurality of buses wherein more than one intermediate value is simultaneously available to the processing elements. 