A deduction inference system is connected to a plurality of sensor elements, a display device, and an actuator mechanism. The deduction inference system processes stimulus sensor signals received from responding sensor elements. Each sensor signal uniquely identifies condition/status information representative of the particular sensor element transmitting that signal. Using preestablished knowledge rules previously programmed into its memory, the deduction inference system is capable of executing and solving a "non NP-complete" deduction inference on the inputted stimulus sensor signals. The resulting data can then be presented onto a display device as a user friendly "smart" informational message or transmitted to an actuator mechanism attached thereto to control electromechanical devices and provide a real-time response to changing condition/status information transmitted form the plurality of sensor elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non NP-complete deduction inference system coupled to a plurality of sensors for transmitting condition/status signals to said deduction inference system and to output means for receiving command signals from said deduction inference system, said deduction inference system comprising: memory storage means for storing a plurality of predetermined propositional logic clauses, each propositional logic clause defining the conditions under which at least one of a plurality of flags will be set in response to transmitted condition/status signals from said plurality of sensors; means for selecting appropriate propositional logic expressions from said memory means in response to said transmitted condition/status signals and storing them in a working memory; transformation formulae logic means for transforming said set of propositional logic clauses into a set of derivative clauses logically equivalent to said set of propositional logic clauses; deducing means for performing deductions on the basis of said set of derivative clauses and said transmitted condition/status signals, said deducing means comprising: means for identifying a unit clause containing a single variable "p" within said set of derivative clauses and removing said unit clause from said set of derivative clauses; means for identifying compound clauses containing multiple variables within said set of derivative clauses; means for searching said compound clauses for the variable "not p"; means for deleting the variable "not p" from each of said compound clauses to form a new set of derivative clauses, wherein said identifying means, said searching means, and said deleting means are repeatedly accessed until no more unit clauses containing a single variable can be identified; and means for generating a solution on the basis of said deductions; and means for generating command signals to said output means based on the solution from said deducing means, said output means including an actuator mechanism which, in response to said command signals, induces a physical response by transmitting activation signals to restore the stability of at least one device whose operation is directly or indirectly monitored by said plurality of sensors. 2. The deduction inference system of claim 1, wherein said output means includes a display device and said command signals include the solution generated by the deducing means. 3. The deduction inference system of claim 1, wherein the activation signals transmitted by said actuator mechanism are real-time response commands to said at least one device attached thereto. 4. The invention according to claim 1, wherein said non NP-complete inference system is operable to carry deduction inferences to completion with execution times which increase at a less than exponential rate as the number of transmitted stimulus sensor signals increases linearly. 