A drive train for transmitting torque produced by a load comprises a planetary gear arrangement mounted concentrically with respect to a tubular shaft. The planetary gear arrangement cooperates with a pair of driven gears which are also coaxial with the tubular shaft, the planetary gear arrangement and the pair of gears being located within an outer housing. The tubular shaft provides an unobstructed, large diameter passage through the drive train, the passage being available for the routing to a load connected to one of the driven gears of movable shafts, conduits or electrical conductors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for imparting movement to a load while simultaneously permitting the establishment of fluidic, mechanical or electrical communication with the load, said apparatus comprising: a drive motor; a tubular shaft, said shaft having an axis and defining an open-ended passage extending therethrough; planetary gear means, said planetary gear means being disposed generally concentrically with respect to said tubular shaft, said planetary gear means including: a planet carrier, said planet carrier being mounted for rotation about said tubular shaft; a plurality of planet wheels supported on said carrier; and means for coupling said drive motor to said carrier to cause rotation of said carrier and planet wheels; housing defining means extending at least partly around said planetary gear means whereby said gear means is disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, Said housing defining means being stationary relative to said drive motor; a first internal gear fixed to said housing defining means, said first internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft and being engaged by said plural planet wheels; a second internal gear for driving a load, disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, said second internal gear being coaxial with said tubular shaft, being engaged and driven by said planet wheels, being freely movable relative to said housing defining means, but not being in driving engagement with said tubular shaft; and means for connecting a load to said second gear. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for coupling said drive motor comprises: a hollow pinion, said hollow pinion meshing with said planet wheels; and means for establishing a mechanical connection between said hollow pinion and said drive motor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for coupling said drive motor comprises: a rotatably driven shaft extending from said drive motor; a drive gear supported on said planet carrier; and a pinion gear, said pinion gear being connectable to said drive motor shaft and cooperating with said drive gear. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said drive gear is a bevelled gear and wherein said pinion gear is a bevel pinion mounted on said drive motor shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second internal gear rotates about said tubular shaft and wherein said apparatus further comprises: axially and radially acting bearing means for supporting said second internal gear from said stationary housing defining means. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said drive motor is a servo motor disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising: resolver means disposed within said housing defining means, said resolver means providing output signals commensurate with the orientation and rotational speed of the load. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said drive motor is disposed between said housing defining means and said tubular shaft, and wherein said drive motor is a ring-shaped motor arranged coaxially with respect to said tubular shaft. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said drive motor is mounted on the exterior of said housing defining means, and wherein said drive motor is a ring-shaped motor arranged coaxially with respect to said tubular shaft. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: brake means disposed within said housing defining means, said brake means selectively cooperating with said coupling means to prevent said drive motor shaft from rotating said planet carrier. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said brake means provides a braking moment which exceeds the rated moment of said drive motor. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing defining means is fixed to said tubular shaft. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tubular shaft rotates with said second internal gear. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for connecting said means for coupling said drive motor and said tubular shaft. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing defining means has a generally cylindrical shape. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tubular shaft is a profiled hollow shaft. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for coupling said drive motor includes a drive motor shaft which defines an axis the axis of said drive motor shaft being angularly oriented with respect to the axis of said tubular shaft; and wherein said coupling means comprises: bevelled gear means for connecting said drive motor shaft to said planet carrier. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said tubular shaft is fixed to said housing defining means, wherein said second internal gear rotates about said tubular shaft and wherein said load connecting means comprises: flange means for coupling a rotatable tool to said second internal gear whereby said tool will rotate about the axis of said tubular shaft. 