An integrated circuit package is disclosed, of the type having a pin-fin heat sink attached to the surface. A flat plate is attached to the ends of the pins of the heat sink, to provide a planar surface area of adequate size to allow a vacuum pickup tool to pick and place the packaged integrated circuit, and to receive marking and symbolization.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of packaging an integrated circuit, comprising the steps of: mounting an integrated circuit chip within an integrated circuit package, the integrated circuit package having a flat surface; attaching a heat sink to the flat surface of the integrated circuit package, the heat sink having a plurality of extensions extending away from the integrated circuit package after the attaching step; and attaching a plate to the ends of a selected group of the extensions of the heat sink said selected group being fewer in number than all the extensions of the heat sink such that some of the extensions of the heat sink have the plate attached thereto and some do not have the plate attached thereto. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of attaching the plate comprises attaching the plate to the ends of some of the extensions of the heat sink with a thermally conductive epoxy. 3. A method of packaging an integrated circuit, comprising the steps of: mounting an integrated circuit chip within an integrated circuit package, the integrated circuit package having a flat surface; attaching a heat sink to the flat surface of the integrated circuit package, the heat sink having a plurality of extensions extending away from the integrated circuit package after the attaching step; and attaching a plate to the ends of some of the extensions of the heat sink and leaving the other extensions uncovered. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: marking an exposed surface of the plate after the step of attaching the plate. 5. A method of packaging an integrated circuit, comprising the steps of: providing a heat sink having a first surface which is flat, and a second surface comprising a plurality of extensions extending substantially perpendicular to said flat surface, each extension having a distal end; each extension having a distal end; mounting said first surface of said heat sink to a flat surface of an integrated circuit package; and connecting the distal ends of selected ones of the extensions with a plate and leaving the other extensions unconnected. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said plate is connected to the distal ends of said selected extensions by a thermally conductive epoxy. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of: marking an exposed surface of the plate after the step of connecting selected ones of the distal ends with the plate. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of mounting said first surface of said heat sink comprises the step of mounting said first surface of said heat sink to a flat surface of an integrated circuit package by a thermally conductive epoxy. 9. A method of packaging an integrated circuit, comprising the steps of: providing a heat sink having a first surface which is flat, and a second surface comprising a plurality of extensions extending substantially perpendicular to said flat surface, some of said extensions being shorter than the others of said extensions and each extension having a distal end; mounting said first surface of said heat sink to a flat surface of an integrated circuit package; and attaching a plate to the distal ends of the shorter of said extensions. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of attaching said plate comprises the step of attaching said plate to the distal ends of said shorter extensions by a thermally conductive epoxy. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of: marking an exposed surface of the plate after the step of attaching the plate. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of mounting said first surface of said heat sink comprises the step of mounting said first surface of said heat sink to a flat surface of an integrated circuit package by a thermally conductive epoxy. 