A swivel coupling device is disclosed which includes a first portion having a first and a second end. The first portion includes a tubular extension which defines a cylindrical outer surface having an annular recess therein. An O-ring co-operates with and is partially disposed within the recess. A hexagon member is disposed between the extension and the second end of the first portion for selectively inhibiting rotational movement of the first portion. A collar is disposed between the recess and the hexagonal member. The collar and the hexagonal member define therebetween an annular groove. An open sided washer co-operates with the annular groove. A second portion has a first and a second extremity and defines a bore and a counter bore. The bore extends from the first extremity to the counter bore and the counter bore extends from the bore to the second extremity. A cylindrical insert is disposed within the counter bore. The insert defines a conduit which slidingly receives therein the tubular extension such that the O-ring slidingly engages the conduit. A flange extends from the second extremity and the second portion and a fastener fastens the washer to the flange. The arrangement is such that when the extension is slidingly received within the conduit, and when the washer is disposed within the groove, the fastener fastens the washer to the flange so that relative rotation between the first and the second portion is permitted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A swivel coupling device, said device comprising: a first portion having a first and a second end; said first portion including: a tubular extension defining a cylindrical outer surface having an annular recess therein; an O-ring co-operating with and partially disposed within said recess; means disposed between said extension and said second end of said first portion for selectively inhibiting rotational movement of said first portion; a collar disposed between said recess and said means, said collar and said means defining therebetween an annular groove; open sided washer means transversely mounted in and co-operating with said annular groove for limiting axial movement of said first portion relative to said washer means; a second portion having a first and a second extremity, said second portion defining a bore and a counterbore, said bore extending from said first extremity to said counterbore, said counterbore extending from said bore to said second extremity; a cylindrical insert disposed within said counterbore, said insert defining a conduit which slidingly receives therein said tubular extension such that said O-ring slidingly engages said conduit; a flange extending from said second extremity of said second portion; and fastening means for fastening said flange to said washer means, the arrangement being such that when said extension is slidingly received within said conduit, and when said washer means is disposed within said groove, said fastening means fastens said flange to said washer means so that relative rotation between said first and second portions is permitted. 2. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first portion defines a channel which extends from said first to said second end thereof. 3. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first portion further includes: an externally threaded portion which extends from said second end towards said means. 4. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first end is disposed adjacent to said bore when said first end is inserted into said conduit. 5. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first portion is of stainless steel. 6. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said cylindrical outer surface defines a further recess, said first portion further including: a second O-ring which co-operates with said further recess. 7. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means is a hexagonal portion rigidly secured to and disposed integrally with said first portion. 8. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said collar abuts against said insert when said extension is disposed within said insert. 9. A coupling device as seet forth in claim 1 wherein said washer means includes: an open sided steel washer; a resilient open sided washer disposed between said steel washer and said flange. 10. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said resilient washer is of TEFLON. 11. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said second portion further includes: a connecting member disposed adjacent to said first extremity, said member defining an external thread. 12. A coupling device as set forth in claim 11 wherein said second portion further includes: a conical shaped seating portion disposed between said connecting member and said second extremity for enabling said second portion to be seated relative to a supporting frame. 13. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said insert forms an interference fit within said counterbore. 14. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said insert is of TEFLON, the arrangement being such that said insert forms an interference fit within said counterbore so that removal of said insert is facilitated by rapidly reducing the temperature of said second portion so that said TEFLON insert shrinks relative to said counterbore such that said insert may be removed from said counterbore. 15. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said insert has a first and a second side, said first side abutting against said counterbore adjacent to said bore, said second side defining a cup shaped depression for the reception therein of said collar. 16. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said flange defines at least one hole for the reception therein of said fastening means. 17. A coupling device as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fastening means includes: at least one threaded fastener which co-operates with said flange and said washer means for fastening together said flange and said washer means. 18. A swivel coupling device, said device comprising: a first portion having a first and a second end; said first portion including: a tubular extension defining a cylindrical outer surface having an annular recess therein; an O-ring co-operating with and partially disposed within said recess; means disposed between said extension and said second end of said first portion for selectively inhibiting rotational movement of said first portion; a collar disposed between said recess and said means, said collar and said means defining therebetween an annular groove; open sided washer means transversely mounted in and co-operating with said annular groove for limiting axial movement of said first portion relative to said washer means; a second portion having a first and a second extremity, said second portion defining a bore and a counterbore, said bore extending from said first extremity to said counterbore, said counterbore extending from said bore to said second extremity; a flange extending from said second extremity of said second portion; and fastening means for fastening said flange to said washer means, the arrangement being such that when said extension is slidingly received within said counterbore, and when said washer means is disposed within said groove, said fastening means fastens said flange to said washer means so that relative rotation between said first and second portions is permitted. 19. A coupling device as set forth in claim 18 wherein said portions are fabricated from plastics materials. 