The present invention embodies a safety interlock system and method for automatically disabling operation of a robot or other machine with standard mechanical interfaces (SMIF) apparatus if the components are not in proper operating positions when the machine is started. In a preferred embodiment the safety interlock is incorporated in a robotic machine for processing semiconductor wafers and the system uses three conventional sensors for detecting whether the transfer robot is in the out position or not, whether the cassette elevator is "home" or not, and whether the cassette gripper on the transfer robot is open or closed. A logic circuit has the outputs of the robot "out" sensor and the cassette elevator "home" sensor input to a NAND gate, the output of which is input to an OR gate along with the output of the "open" sensor of the SMIF robot arm gripper. An appropriate output from the OR gate lights an LED setting off an audible alarm and opening a breaker that automatically disables the SMIF robot motor. Thus, when the machine is started, the system checks the outputs of the three sensors and if no output results from the OR gate the SMIF apparatus goes to work. If an output from the OR gate does result, the alarm is set off, the breaker is opened disabling the SMIF apparatus and preventing further machine operation.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for avoiding damage, due to improper operation, to a machine for moving workpieces using a SMIF apparatus, having a workpiece elevator and a robot transfer mechanism with a workpiece gripper, and comprising: a first sensor means for detecting whether the robot transfer mechanism is in a selected condition, and producing a first indicative output; a second sensor means for detecting whether the workpiece elevator is in a selected condition, and producing a second indicative output; a third sensor means for detecting whether the workpiece gripper is in a selected condition and producing a third indicative output; wherein the improvement comprises, a logic circuit comprising: means, responsive to said first, second, and third indicative outputs, for determining whether said robot transfer mechanism, said workpiece elevator, and said workpiece gripper are all in said selected conditions; and means for outputting a disabling signal when at least one of said transfer mechanism, elevator, and gripper is not in its selected condition; and means, responsive to said disabling signal, for disabling said SMIF apparatus. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said logic circuit comprises a NAND gate and an OR gate, and said determining means comprises: means for inputting said first and second indicative outputs from said transfer mechanism and said workpiece elevator sensors to said NAND gate; and means for inputting said third indicative output from said workpiece gripper sensor to said OR gate along with the output of said NAND gate. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein said disabling signal outputting means comprises means for inputting the output of said OR gate to said disabling means. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said robot transfer mechanism comprises an operating arm powered by a motor, and said disabling means comprises a circuit breaker for cutting off power to said motor. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein said workpieces comprise semiconductor-wafer-carrying cassettes and said robot transfer mechanism comprises means for moving said cassettes into a clean room environment. 6. A method for automatically preventing damage, due to improper operation, to a machine for moving workpieces with a SMIF apparatus having a robot transfer mechanism with a workpiece gripper, and a workpiece elevator, comprising the steps of: providing a first sensor for detecting whether the robot transfer mechanism is in a first selected condition or not, and producing a first indicative output, providing a second sensor for detecting whether the workpiece gripper is in a second selected condition or not and producing a second indicative output; providing a third sensor for detecting whether the workpiece elevator is in a third selected condition or not, and producing a third indicative output; inputting said first, second, and third indicative outputs to a logic circuit to determine whether said transfer mechanism, said workpiece gripper, and said workpiece elevator, are all in said selected conditions; and outputting a signal disabling said SMIF apparatus when at least one of said transfer mechanism, workpiece gripper, and workpiece elevator is not in its selected position. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said inputting step comprises: inputting said first and second indicative outputs from said transfer mechanism and said workpiece elevator sensors to a NAND gate in said logic circuit; and inputting said third indicative output from said workpiece gripper sensor to an OR gate in said logic circuit along with the output of said NAND gate. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said outputting step comprises inputting the output of said OR gate to a transfer robot disabling device. 9. A method according to claim 6, wherein said workpieces comprise semiconductor-wafer-carrying cassettes and said robot transfer mechanism moves said cassettes into a clean room environment. 10. Apparatus for avoiding damage, due to improper operation, to a machine for moving semiconductor-wafer-carrying cassettes into a clean room environment with a SMIF apparatus, having a cassette elevator and a robot transfer arm with a cassette gripper, and comprising: a first sensor for detecting whether the robot transfer arm is in the out position or not, and producing an indicative output signal; a second sensor for detecting whether the cassette gripper on the transfer arm is open or closed and producing an indicative output signal; a third sensor for detecting whether the cassette elevator is "home" or not, and producing an indicative output signal; wherein the improvement comprises: a logic circuit comprising a NAND gate and an OR gate; means for inputting said three indicative output signals to said logic circuit to determine whether said robot transfer arm, said cassette elevator, and said cassette gripper are all in selected conditions, said inputting means comprising: means for inputting said first and second indicative outputs from said transfer arm and said cassette elevator sensors to said NAND gate; and means for inputting said third indicative output from said cassette gripper sensor to said OR gate along with the output of said NAND gate; means for disabling said robot transfer arm; and means for outputting a signal disabling said robot arm when at least one of said robot arm, cassette elevator, and cassette gripper is not in its selected position, said disabling signal outputting means comprising means for inputting the output of said OR gate to said disabling means. 