Automated system for trimming and inspecting complex composite aircraft parts. A straight firing abrasive water jet head with integral catcher mounted on a first Z axis slide is numerically controlled on a six axis gantry/water jet manipulator (X, Y, Z, C, A, B axes). A touch probe mounted on a second Z axis slide is used to gauge three part points which establish part orientation in the X, Y, Z gantry/robot cell; also to adjust CNC and CMM part trim/inspection programs to actual part orientation and for peripheral dimensional inspection.
Claims We claim: 1. Automated system for trimming and inspecting parts comprising computer programmable means for geometrically defining a part program responsive CNC means at a trimming station for trimming a program defined part, means for locating a part to be trimmed at said station, means for gauging any offset in the actual position of said part relative to programmed position for trimming by said CNC means, means for transforming the CNC program to comply with said actual position in performing said trimming operation, and correspondingly transformed program responsive CMM means for inspecting the trimmed part at said station. 2. System of claim 1 including an X, Y, Z axis Gantry Robot providing a work cell for performing trimming and inspection operations. 3. System of claim 1 wherein said means for trimming provides linear cutting action. 4. System of claim 3 including means for providing said linear cutting action in a direction normal to the surface of said part being trimmed. 5. System of claim 3 wherein said linear cutting action comprises an abrasive water jet. 6. System of claim 4 wherein said linear cutting action is provided by two axis head means for adjusting the linear angle at a constant focal point. 7. System of claim 6 including water catching means spaced from said focal point for absorbing energy of said abrasive water jet following its cutting action. 8. System of claim 7 including a third axis mounting means for said catcher to maintain its alignment with said linear cutting action. 9. System of claim 2 including a Z axis mast for mounting said CNC means, and a separate Z axis mast for mounting said means for gauging, with separate computer programmable controls for independently operating each means. 10. System of claim 1 wherein said means for gauging includes means to gauge the position of three reference points on said part indicating the actual location of said part relative to said trimming station. 11. System of claim 2 wherein said means for gauging includes means for inspecting the part following said trimming action. 12. System of claim 10 wherein said means for gauging comprises a probe with means for gauging the X, Y, Z position of each reference point to establish the exact location of said part at said trimming station. 13. System of claim 1 including means for trimming and inspecting complex composite parts. 14. System of claim 1 including means for trimming and inspecting complex composite aircraft parts. 15. System of claim 5 wherein said means for locating a part to be trimmed includes universal holding fixture means for retaining a part on a multiplicity of adjustable locators set to a master surface corresponding to the underside of said part, and including vacuum means on said locators for retaining said part against shifting during the trimming operation. 16. System of claim 1 including temperature compensation means for modifying the CNC trimming program for differentials in thermal expansion between the part and the station structure. 17. System of claim 16 including means for comparing known dimensions on relatively low coefficient composite part with the corresponding measurement of the CNC machine using the ratio determined by such measurement for modifying the CNC program to match the actual part dimensions. 