A mold assembly for forming a panel assembly having a gasket on one surface for use as a flush-mounted panel or window in vehicles, buildings, or other structures includes a mold cavity defined in a facing surface of one mold section and a pressure pad on the second mold section, the pressure pad being urged against the surface of a sheet-like panel at a position opposite the mold cavity with the panel being held against a support surface adjacent the mold cavity when the mold sections are closed. Preferably, the pressure pad is a heat insulative pad which is urged against the panel surface by a resilient member preferably formed from urethane. The support surface and mold cavity are preferably raised above and offset from adjacent portions of the first mold section, and the size of the raised area of the support surface and mold cavity preferably corresponds in size to the area of the pressure pad.
Claims We claim: 1. A mold assembly for forming a polymeric structure on one surface of a sheet-like panel having opposite surfaces, comprising: a pair of cooperating mold sections movable between open and closed positions, said mold sections adapted to receive, engage and hold the sheet-like panel therebetween when said mold sections are in said closed position, each mold section having a facing surface which faces the other mold section; a mold cavity defined in a first portion of said facing surface of a first of said mold sections, said first portion of said facing surface of said first mold section having a support area adjacent said mold cavity, said support area adapted to support and seal against the one surface of the sheet-like panel such that said mold cavity opens to the one surface of the panel when the panel is held between said mold sections in said closed position; a heat insulative pad on the second of said mold sections, said pad being urged against the surface of the sheet-like panel which is opposite the one surface at a position opposite said mold cavity to hold the one surface of the panel against said support area and overlying said mold cavity when said mold sections are in said closed position; and a resilient member located between said heat insulative pad and said second mold section, said resilient member urging said heat insulative pad against the opposite surface of the panel when said mold sections are in closed position, whereby when a polymeric molding material is introduced in said mold cavity, a polymeric structure defined by said mold cavity will be formed on the one surface of the panel. 2. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said first portion of said facing surface of said first mold section which includes said mold cavity is offset above a second portion of said facing surface, said support area including a finished surface offset from said second portion of said facing surface, and adjacent and extending along said cavity, said finished surface sealing against the one surface of the sheet-like panel when the panel is held between said mold sections in said closed position. 3. A mold assembly for forming a polymeric structure on one surface of a sheet-like panel having opposite surfaces, comprising: a pair of cooperating mold sections movable between open and closed positions, said mold sections adapted to receive, engage and hold the sheet-like panel therebetween when said mold sections are in said closed position, each mold section having a facing surface which faces the other mold section; a mold cavity defined in a first portion of said facing surface of a first of said mold sections, said first portion of said facing surface of said first mold section having a support area adjacent said mold cavity, said support area adapted to support and seal against the one surface of the sheet-like panel such that said mold cavity opens to the one surface of the panel when the panel is held between said mold sections in said closed position; and a heat insulative pad on the second of said mold sections, said pad being urged against the surface of the sheet-like panel which is opposite the one surface at a position opposite said mold cavity to hold the one surface of the panel against said support area and overlying said mold cavity when said mold sections are in said closed position whereby when a polymeric molding material is introduced in said mold cavity, a structure defined by said mold cavity will be formed on the one surface of the panel; said first portion of said facing surface of said first mold section which includes said mold cavity being offset above a second portion of said facing surface, said area of said first portion of said facing surface of said first mold section including a finished surface adjacent and extending along said cavity which seals against the one surface of the sheet-like panel; said heat insulative pad having an area engaging the opposite surface of said sheet-like panel, said area being generally corresponding in size to the size of said offset portion of said facing surface of said first mold section. 4. The mold assembly as defined by claim 3, further including: a resilient member between said heat insulative pad and said second mold section; and at least one fastener for retaining said insulative pad in said second mold section. 5. The mold assembly of claim 4 wherein said resilient member is formed from urethane; said heat insulative pad being formed from one of the materials selected from the group consisting of polyether etherketone and polyethylene terephthalate. 6. The mold assembly as defined by claim 3, wherein said first mold section includes a central area and an outer periphery; a runner and gate system for directing molding material to said mold cavity; an ejector disposed at a predetermined location in said first mold cavity for ejecting the sheet-like panel and the polymeric structure from said cavity; and a holder for holding said sheet-like panel on said first mold section; said holder being located in said central area of said first mold section; said mold cavity spaced toward said outer periphery of said first mold section from said holder. 7. The mold assembly as defined by claim 6, further including means below said mold cavity and extending through said first mold section for changing the temperature of said mold cavity. 8. The mold assembly as defined by claim 6, wherein said first mold section also includes a guide for locating the sheet-like panel on said first mold section; said guide including a plurality of locating members fixed at positions spaced toward said outer periphery of said first mold section from said mold cavity to engage a peripheral edge of the sheet-like panel. 9. The mold assembly as defined by claim 6, wherein said first mold section also includes a guide for locating the sheet-like panel on said first mold section; said guide including at least one female fitting for receiving a locating pin on a panel transporting arm, said female fitting spaced toward said outer periphery of said first mold section from said mold cavity. 10. The mold assembly of claim 3 wherein said second mold section includes a central area, an outer periphery, and a holder for holding the sheet-like panel on said second mold section, said holder located in said central area, said heat insulative pad spaced toward said outer periphery from said holder. 11. The mold assembly of claim 10 wherein said first mold section includes a central area, an outer periphery, and a holder for holding the sheet-like panel on said first mold section, said holder located in said central area, said mold cavity spaced toward said outer periphery from said holder. 12. A mold assembly for forming a polymeric structure on one surface of a sheet-like panel, comprising: a pair of cooperating mold sections movable between open and closed positions, said mold sections adapted to receive, engage and hold the sheet-like panel therebetween when said mold sections are in said closed position, each mold section having a facing surface which faces the other mold section; a mold cavity defined in a first portion of said facing surface of a first of said mold sections, said first portion of said one facing surface of said first mold section having a support area adjacent said mold cavity, said support area adapted to support and seal against the one surface of the sheet-like panel such that said mold cavity opens to the one surface of the panel when the panel is held between said mold sections in said closed position; a pressure pad on the second of said mold sections, and a resilient member located between said pressure pad and said second mold section, said pressure pad being urged by said resilient member against the surface of the sheet-like panel which is opposite the one surface at a position directly opposite said mold cavity to hold the one surface of the panel against said support area and overlying said mold cavity when said mold sections are in said closed position; said first portion of said facing surface of said first mold section being offset above a second portion of said facing surface, said pressure pad having an area engaging the opposite surface of said panel, said area generally corresponding in size to the size of said first portion; whereby when a polymeric molding material is introduced in said mold cavity, a structure defined by said mold cavity will be formed on the one surface of the panel. 13. The mold assembly of claim 12 wherein said pressure pad includes a generally rigid heat insulating member adapted to engage the opposite surface of the sheet-like panel. 14. The mold assembly of claim 13 wherein said resilient member is formed from urethane; said heat insulating member being formed from the group consisting of polyether etherketone and polyethylene terephthalate. 15. The mold assembly as defined by claim 12, wherein said first mold section includes a central area and an outer periphery; a runner and gate system for directing molding material to said mold cavity; an ejector disposed at a predetermined location in said first mold cavity for ejecting the sheet-like panel and the polymeric structure from said cavity; and a holder for holding said sheet-like panel on said first mold section; said holder being located in said central area of said first mold section; said mold cavity spaced toward said outer periphery of said first mold section from said holder. 16. The mold assembly as defined by claim 15, further including means below said mold cavity and extending through said first mold section for changing the temperature of said mold cavity. 17. The mold assembly of claim 15 wherein said first mold section also includes a guide for locating the sheet-like panel on said first mold section, said guide spaced toward said outer periphery of said first mold section from said mold cavity. 