A method and apparatus for making wire harness. The apparatus includes the use of a sequential wire processor that serially and sequentially fabricates circuits having terminal ends. The terminated circuits are transferred by a transfer means to an upstanding carousel provided with arrays of circuit-receiving clips. The transfer means receives terminated circuits from the sequential wire processor and places them on the clips of the carousel. The carousel is then moved to an assembly line and robotic station where robots remove the circuits from the clips of the carousel and place the terminated ends of the circuits in cavities of connectors strategically located on the assembly line. The robots have end effectors that physically insert the terminal ends into the connector cavities.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a wire harness, comprising: using a sequential wire processor to sequentially fabricate circuits having opposed ends, and for terminating at least one of the opposed ends of each circuit with respective terminals for insertion into respective connector cavities, sequentially transferring the circuits to respective circuit retaining clips located on a movable multi-sided carousel, moving the carousel containing the circuits to an inspection station, inspecting the carousel to determine the need for additional circuits to complete a harness, and to manually insert such missing circuits into empty clips on the carousel, moving the inspected carousel to a buffer area to await transfer to a robotic station or directly to said station if the robotic station is ready to receive a carousel, using end effectors of robots at the robotic station to remove circuits from the clips of the carousel and to transfer the circuits to a formboard on which are located connectors provided with cavities for receiving the terminal ends of said circuits, and using said end effectors to insert the terminal ends into said cavities. 2. The method of claim 1 including directing defective circuits to a location separate from the carousel. 3. The method of claim 2 including: using a personal computer and software to control the transfer of the circuits to the carousel from the wire processor and to direct defective circuits to the location separate from the carousel. 4. The method of claim 3 in which the personal computers and software are interfaced with indexing apparatus, and using said computer, software and indexing apparatus to effect sequential vertical movement of the sides of the carousel and rotation of the carousel in cooperation with the sequential wire processor and means for sequentially transferring circuits from the wire processor to the carousel. 5. The method of claim 1 in which the carousel is docked into indexing apparatus at the location of the sequential wire processor and the means for effecting the transfer of the circuits to the carousel. 6. The method of claim 1 in which the clips have jaws that receive and retain the circuits, the method including: opening the jaws of the clips to receive the circuits, and closing the jaws on each circuit after it is received. 7. The method of claim 6 in which the clip jaws grip crimped portions of terminated ends of the circuits. 8. The method of claim 1 in which twisted wire leads are added to empty clips with proper terminal orientation on the carousel at the inspection station. 9. The method of claim 1 including: docking the carousel in indexing means located at the inspection station, and using said indexing means, a personal computer and software at said inspection station to order carousel rotation and vertical movement of carousel sides. 10. The method of claim 1 including using a routine that orders the robots to search for a connector cavity a certain number of times if the robot end effectors miss the cavity in the process of attempting to insert a circuit end in the cavity. 11. The method of claim 1 including using the end effectors to pull-test each inserted circuit end to determine retention of circuit ends in the connector cavities. 12. The method of claim 11 including directing the formboard with connectors and circuits to an inspection/rework station, manually inserting circuit ends into connector cavities missed by the end effectors at said inspection/rework station, and manually inserting circuit ends in the cavities that failed the pull-test performed by the end effectors. 13. The method of claim 1 including the steps of removing the formboard with the circuits and connectors from the robotic station and supplying another formboard with empty connectors to the robotic station. 14. The method of claim 1 in which the end effectors operate under control of respective electrical controllers and a programmable computer, the method including changing the program of the computer and the connectors on the formboard to make different harnesses. 