The robust coding system makes use of a robust bar code on a label to enable a label reading system to automatically reconstruct label indicia information, even though the label has been damaged and is partially obliterated. An error correcting code is incorporated into the bar code sequence imprinted on the label to detect and correct a plurality of errors in the bar code. The error correcting bar code digits can be interleaved with the data imprinted in bar code form on the label or appended thereto. In addition, when the robust coding system is used on labels for data media cartridges, additional information is included in the bar code field to identify the type of media contained in the media cartridge.
Claims We claim: 1. An encoded label for an item, comprising: a substrate, including a surface having pro-printed thereon at least two parallel redundant means for identifying said item; a first plurality of n indicia contained in n contiguous indicia locations within a first one of said identifying means, said first plurality of indicia defining a first indicia sequence expressive of a first indicator for identifying said item, where n is a positive integer greater than one; a second plurality of m indicia contained in m contiguous indicia locations within a second one of said identifying means, said second plurality of indicia defining a second indicia sequence expressive of a second indicator for identifying said item, where m is a positive integer greater than one and greater than n, wherein said second indicator includes said first indicator; wherein said second plurality of m indicia includes r error code indicia to enable reconstruction of a plurality of errors in said second indicia sequence when at least one of said indicia in said second indicia sequence on said label is illegible, where r is a positive integer greater than zero. 2. The encoded label of claim 1, wherein said item comprises a media cartridge, further comprising: s media identification indicia, included in said m indicia of said second plurality of indicia, for identifying a class of media contained in said media cartridge, where s is a positive integer greater than zero. 3. The encoded label of claim 1 wherein said first plurality of indicia are printed in human-readable form. 4. The encoded label of claim 1 wherein said second plurality of indicia are printed in machine-readable form. 5. The encoded label of claim 2 wherein said label includes a first label section that includes indicia identifying said item and a second label section that includes said s media identification indicia, said first and said second label sections are physically separate from each other. 6. The encoded label of claim 1 wherein said first and said second plurality of indicia are printed to be read in the same direction on said label. 7. The encoded label of claim 1 wherein said first and said second plurality of indicia are printed to be read in reverse directions on said label. 8. The encoded label of claim 1 wherein n of said m indicia of said second plurality of indicia correspond on a one-to-one basis to said n indicia of said first plurality of indicia. 9. The encoded label of claim 8 wherein said n indicia of said first plurality of indicia and said n corresponding indicia in said second plurality of indicia fail to comprise a complete message in both a top half and a bottom half of said encoded label. 10. The encoded label of claim 1 further comprising: a third plurality of indicia comprising n color fields, each one of said n color fields coded to correspond to one of said n indicia in said first plurality of indicia, each of said third plurality of indicia being printed in an indicia location corresponding to said corresponding one of said n indicia. 11. An encoded label for uniquely identifying an item on which said encoded label is affixed, comprising: a substrate, having a surface for containing printed indicia, which printed indicia are contained in first and second predefined fields on said surface; a first set of indicia in human-readable form printed in said first predefined field for defining an item identification; and a second set of indicia in machine-readable form printed in said second predefined field for defining both said item identification and a set of error correction code indicia for correcting a plurality of errors in said item identification if a portion of said item identification in said second predefined field fails to be machine-readable. 12. The encoded label of claim 11, wherein said item comprises a media cartridge, further including: at least one indicia included in said first set of indicia for identifying a type of media contained in said media cartridge. 13. The encoded label of claim 11, wherein said item comprises a media cartridge, further including: at least one indicia included in said second set of indicia for identifying a type of media contained in said media cartridge. 14. The encoded label of claim 13 wherein said label includes a first label section that includes said item identification and a second label section that includes said media identification indicia wherein said first and said second sections are physically separate from each other. 15. The encoded label of claim 11 wherein said surface has a length and a width, said first and second fields being oriented juxtaposed to each other in parallel relationship along said length of said surface. 16. The encoded label of claim 15 wherein said first and second sets of indicia are printed to be read along said length in one direction. 17. The encoded label of claim 15 wherein said first and second sets of indicia are printed to be read along said length in opposite directions. 18. The encoded label of claim 17 wherein said first and said second sets of indicia fail to comprise a complete message in both a top half and a bottom half of said label taken along said length. 19. The encoded label of claim 11 further comprising: a third set of indicia in color coded form printed in said first predefined field for defining an item identification, wherein each one of said indicia of said third set of indicia is coded to correspond to one of said indicia in said first set of indicia to define said item identification which is redundant to said item identification formed by said first set of indicia. 20. The encoded label of claim 19 wherein each of said color coded indicia in said third set of indicia is printed in said first predefined field collocated exclusively with said corresponding indicia in said first set of indicia. 21. The encoded label of claim 11 wherein said item identification and said error correction code indicia are interleaved together to form said second set of indicia. 22. The encoded label of claim 12 wherein said item identification and media type identification indicia are concatenated together to form said first set of indicia. 23. The encoded label of claim 13 wherein said item identification, said media identification indicia and said error correction code indicia are interleaved together to form said second set of indicia. 24. An encoded label for uniquely identifying a media cartridge on which said encoded label is affixed, comprising: a substrate, having a surface for containing printed indicia, which printed indicia am contained In first, second and third predefined fields on said surface; a first set of indicia in human-readable form printed in said firm predefined field for defining a media cartridge identification; a second set of indicia in machine-readable form primed in said second predefined field for defining said media cartridge identification; and a third set of indicia printed in said third predefined field for defining a media type contained within said media cartridge; wherein at least one of said second set of indicia and said third set of indicia includes at least one error correction code indicia for correcting a plurality of errors if a portion of said encoded label fails to be machine-readable. 25. The encoded label of claim 24 wherein said media cartridge identification and said error correction code indicia are interleaved together to form said second set of indicia. 26. The encoded label of claim 24, wherein said third set of indicia includes: at least one indicia in human-readable form to identify a type of media contained in said media cartridge. 27. The encoded label of claim 24, wherein said third set of indicia includes: at least one indicia in machine-readable form to identify a type of media contained in said media cartridge. 28. The encoded label of claim 27 wherein said label includes a first label section that includes said media cartridge identification and a second label section that includes said media identification indicia, wherein said first and said second sections are physically separate from each other. 29. The encoded label of claim 24 wherein said surface has a length and a width, said first and second fields being oriented juxtaposed to each other in parallel relationship along said length of said surface. 30. The encoded label of claim 29 wherein said first and second sets of indicia are printed to be read along said length in one direction. 31. The encoded label of claim 29 wherein said first and second sets of indicia are printed to be read along said length in opposite directions. 32. The encoded label of claim 31 wherein said first and said second sets of indicia fail to comprise a complete message in both a top half and a bottom half of said label taken along said length. 33. The encoded label of claim 24 further comprising: a third set of indicia in color coded form printed in said first predefined field for defining an item identification, wherein each one of said indicia of said third set of indicia is coded to correspond to one of said indicia in said first set of indicia to define said item identification which is redundant to said item identification formed by said first set of indicia. 34. The encoded label of claim 33 wherein each of said color coded indicia in said third set of indicia is printed in said first predefined field collocated exclusively with said corresponding indicia in said first set of indicia. 35. An encoded label for uniquely identifying a media cartridge on which said encoded label is affixed, comprising: a substrate, having a surface for containing printed indicia, which printed indicia are contained in first, second and third predefined fields on said surface; a first set of indicia in human-readable form printed in said first predefined field for defining an item identification; a second set of indicia in machine-readable form printed in said second predefined field for defining said item identification, including: at least one error correction code Indicia for correcting a plurality of errors in said media cartridge identification if a portion of said media cartridge identification falls to be machine-readable; a third set of indicia printed in said third predefined field for defining a media type contained within said media cartridge, including: at least one indicia in human-readable form to identify a type of media contained in said media cartridge, at least one indicia in machine-readable form to identify a type of media contained in said media cartridge, at least one error correction code indicia for correcting plurality of errors in said media type identification if a portion of said media type identification fails to be machine-readable. 36. The encoded label of claim 35 wherein said item identification and said error correction code indicia are interleave together to form said second set of indicia. 37. The encoded label of claim 35 wherein said surface has a length and a width, said first and second fields being oriented juxtaposed to each other in parallel relationship along said length of said surface. 38. The encoded label of claim 37 wherein said first and second sets of indicia are printed to be read along said length in one direction. 39. The encoded label of claim 37 wherein said first and second sets of indicia are printed to be read along said length in opposite directions. 40. The encoded label of claim 39 wherein said first and said second sets of indicia fail to comprise a complete message in both a top half and a bottom half of said label taken along said length. 41. The encoded label of claim 35 wherein said third set of indicia is in color coded form in said first predefined field for defining said item identification, wherein each one of said indicia of said third set of indicia is coded to correspond to each one of said indicia in said first set of indicia defining said item identification, and is redundant with said item identification formed by said first set of indicia. 42. The encoded label of claim 41 wherein each of said color coded indicia in said third set of indicia is printed in said first predefined field collocated exclusively with said corresponding indicia in said first set of indicia. 43. The encoded label of claim 1 wherein said second plurality of m indicia includes p synchronization indicia and g date code indicia. 