A robotic end effector adapted to be mounted at the end of an arm of a program-controlled robot is capable of providing compliance within a vertical plane as well as alignment along a horizontal axis. A method and system utilizing the end effector to pick up flat or curved glass panels from glass racks and place the glass panels into irregularly-shaped wooden crates. Due to the compliance and horizontal alignment provided by the end effector, the system allows essentially perfect piece-to-piece vertical edge-of-glass alignment and side-edge to side-edge alignment during the packaging process so as to eliminate glass etching/scratching and breakage. The end effector includes a base frame on which compliance devices and side-shift alignment devices in the form of linear bearing systems support a number of material handling devices in the form of suction devices. The handling devices are typically material holding/gripping devices. Selected ones of the compliance devices can be locked out under the control of a controller for the robot. Also, a number of counterbalancers change counterbalance forces based on glass panel size also under control of the controller of the robot. Each suction device includes a spring-biased suction cup to also provide compliance in a direction substantially normal to the compliance provided in the vertical plane.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for loading a desired number of panels into a shipping container from a storage container at a work station, the work station including a robot controlled by a programmable controller, the robot having an end effector movable with respect to controlled axes, the end effector including a base frame coupled to the robot and at least one material handling device supported on the base frame, the method comprising the steps of: (a) moving the end effector with respect to the controlled axes to allow the at least one material handling device to pick up at least one panel from the storage container; (b) moving the end effector with respect to the controlled axes to place the at least one panel in the shipping container; (c) allowing the at least one material handling device to move relative to the base frame in an upward direction substantially opposite a downward direction of the base frame upon engagement of a bottom edge of the at least one panel with a floor of the shipping container; (d) moving the at least one material handling device linearly relative to and independent of movement of the base frame in a horizontal direction substantially orthogonal to the upward direction in response to a first control signal from the controller until engagement of a side edge of the at least one panel with a side stop of the shipping container; (e) releasing the at least one panel after steps (c) and (d) so that the at least one panel is supported on the floor at its bottom edge and the side edge of the at least one panel is positioned in a predetermined relationship with respect to the side stop; and (f) repeating steps (a) through (e) until the desired number of panels are supported at their bottom edges on the floor of the shipping container with substantially no side-to-side variation. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of counterbalancing the end effector and the at least one panel with a variable amount of counterbalance force based on the size of the at least one panel in response to a second control signal from the controller. 3. A system for loading a desired number of panels into a shipping container from a storage container at a work station, the system comprising: a program-controlled robot having an arm provided with an end effector movable with respect to controlled axes, wherein the end effector includes a base frame coupled to the arm of the robot and at least one material handling device supported on the base frame to receive and retain at least one panel; and a controller for (1) causing the robot to move the end effector with respect to the controlled axes to pick up the at least one panel from the storage container and place the at least one panel in the shipping container and (2) causing the at least one material handling device to receive, retain and then release the at least one panel so that the at least one panel is supported on a floor of the shipping container at a bottom edge of the at least one panel; and wherein the end effector further includes (a) a vertical compliance device for supporting the at least one material handling device on the base frame to allow the at least one material handling device to move relative to the base frame in an upward direction substantially opposite a downward direction of the base frame upon engagement of the bottom edge of the at least one panel with the floor of the shipping container and (b) a side-shift alignment device for supporting the at least one material handling device on the base frame to linearly move the at least one material handling device relative to and independent of movement of the base frame in a horizontal direction substantially orthogonal to the upward direction in response to a first control signal from the controller until engagement of a side edge of the at least one panel with a side stop of the shipping container and prior to release of the at least one panel by the at least one material handling device. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3 further comprising a counterbalancer connected to the at least one material handling device for counterbalancing the at least one panel based on the size of the at least one panel in response to a second control signal from the controller. 5. The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the at least one panel is a glass panel. 6. The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the shipping container is an irregularly-shaped crate. 7. The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the storage container is a regularly-shaped rack. 8. The system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the end effector includes a plurality of material handling devices supported at a plurality of spaced locations on the base frame to receive and retain a number of panels. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8 wherein each of the material handling devices is a suction device. 10. An end effector for use with a robot controlled by a programmable controller to load a desired number of panels into a shipping container from a storage container at a work station, the end effector comprising: a base frame adapted to be mounted on the robot; at least one material handling device supported on the base frame, the at least one material handling device being adapted to receive and retain at least one panel in the storage container and then release the at least one panel in the shipping container so that the at least one panel is supported on a floor of the shipping container at a bottom edge of the at least one panel; a first vertical compliance device for supporting the at least one material handling device on the base frame to allow the at least one material handling device to move relative to the base frame in an upward direction substantially opposite a downward direction of the base frame upon engagement of the bottom edge of the at least one panel with the floor of the shipping container; and a first side-shift alignment device for supporting the at least one material handling device on the base frame to linearly move the at least one material handling device relative to and independent of movement of the base frame in a horizontal direction substantially orthogonal to the upward direction in response to a first control signal from the controller until engagement of a side edge of the at least one panel with a side stop of the shipping container. 11. The end effector of claim 10 further comprising a programmably controlled counterbalancer for counterbalancing the at least one panel based on the size of the at least one panel in response to a second control signal from the controller. 12. The end effector of claim 10 wherein the at least one material handling device includes a plurality of material handling devices supported at a plurality of spaced locations on the base frame to receive and retain a number of panels. 13. The end effector of claim 12 wherein each of the material handling devices is a suction device. 14. The end effector as claimed in claim 12 further including a second vertical compliance device and wherein the plurality of material handling devices are supported on the base frame by the first and second vertical compliance devices. 15. The end effector as claimed in claim 14 further comprising locking means for selectively locking at least one of the first and second compliance devices in response to an additional control signal from the controller to prevent relative movement between the plurality of material handling devices and the base frame. 16. The end effector as claimed in claim 15 wherein the locking means includes at least one pneumatic cylinder. 17. The end effector as claimed in claim 12 further including a second side-shift alignment device and wherein the plurality of material handling devices are supported on the base frame by the first and second side-shift alignment devices. 18. The end effector as claimed in claim 14 further including a number of programmably controlled counterbalancers connected to the plurality of material handling devices for counterbalancing the number of panels based on the size of the number of panels. 19. The end effector as claimed in claim 10 wherein the first side-shift alignment device includes a linear bearing system. 20. The end effector as claimed in claim 19 wherein the linear bearing system includes a rail and a translating carriage slidably supported on the rail for supporting the at least one material handling device. 