A method for forming an EMI shielding gasket gasket. The gasket is a formed-in-place gasket which is deposited by an extruder. The gasket material is a fluent polymeric material having a conductive particles disposed therein. The fluent polymeric material is supplied to the extruder by a material supply system having several canisters and a mixing chamber. The fluent polymeric material is fed to a chamber in the extruder. Pressure is applied to the fluent polymeric material by a pressure supply system which includes a source of positive pressure and negative pressure, and a control module for selectively supplying positive pressure and negative pressure to the extrusion chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a process of forming a heat cured EMI shielding gasket, the improvement comprising: placing a fluent electrically conductive polymeric material in an extrusion chamber applying positive and negative air pressure successively to said chamber to control extrusion from said chamber of a bead of said material to form individual EMI gaskets having desired cross-sectional areas, and heating said bead to cure said bead. 2. A process for forming a bead of fluent polymeric material carrying electrically conductive particles on a substrate, which bead acts to provide an EMI shielding gasket, said fluent polymeric material being extruded from an extruder head through an orifice by exerting pressure on the fluent polymeric material, said process comprising the steps of: supplying said fluent polymeric material to said extrusion head, forming a bead of said polymeric material on said substrate by increasing pressure on said fluent polymeric material to cause said fluent polymeric material to flow out the extrusion head while simultaneously moving said extrusion head relative to said substrate, and varying the amount of pressure while varying the speed of the relative motion between the extrusion head and the substrate to maintain a desired cross-section bead formation, and reducing the pressure to a negative gauge pressure to discontinue the bead formation. 3. The process according to claim 2 wherein said pressure is gas pressure. 4. The process according to claim 3, wherein the fluent polymeric material is supplied to the extrusion head by the steps of: providing a first container holding a first component of the fluent polymeric material, providing a second container holding a second component of the fluent polymeric material, mixing the first and second components prior to supplying the fluent polymeric material to the extrusion head. 5. The process according to claim 4, wherein the mixing step is a dynamic mixing step performed by a screw-type mixer. 6. The process according to claim 3, wherein said gas is pressure controlled by a control module having a series of predetermined settings from less than about -0.9 atmosphere to a pressure of about 160 atmospheres. 7. The process according to claim 3 wherein said bead is formed on said substrate at a rate of movement of the extrusion head with respect to the substrate of between about 0.5 inches per second to about 6 inches per second. 8. The process according to claim 3 further including heat curing the fluent polymeric material after the bead is deposited on the substrate to form an electrically conductive EMI gasket. 9. The process according to claim 3 wherein said fluent polymeric material used to form the bead is an elastomer having electrically conductive particle fillers. 10. The process in accordance with claim 2 wherein said substrate is mounted on a support so that said extrusion head and said substrate can be moved with respect to each other along XYZ axis during said forming step. 11. A process of forming an electrically conductive shielding gasket having a cross sectional area of from about 0.0002 in.sup.2 to about 0.01563 in.sup.2 by extruding fluent polymeric material having electrically conductive particles therein through an extrusion head having an extrusion orifice with the use of air pressure variation applied to a surface of said fluent polymeric material within said extrusion head said process comprising: selecting said fluent polymeric material having a viscosity between 100,000 and 10,000,000 centipoise and positioning said fluent polymeric material on a first side of said extrusion orifice, extruding said fluent polymeric material from said extrusion head by applying gas pressure thereto to cause a bead of said fluent polymeric material to be extruded onto a substrate while moving said substrate with respect to said extrusion head at a speed of from 0.5 in/sec to 6.0 in/sec said bead being formed having an accuracy of about .+-.0.002 in., and, varying said air from a positive gauge pressure to a negative gauge pressure, on said fluent polymeric material to alternately start and stop the bead being extruded. 12. The process in accordance with claim 11 wherein said fluent polymeric material is compressible, and heating said bead to cure said fluent polymeric material and adhere said bead to said substrate and form an EMI shielding gasket having good mechanical and electrical properties. 13. The process in accordance with claim 11 wherein said fluent polymeric material used to form the bead is an elastomer having electrically conductive particle fillers. 14. A process for forming a bead of fluent polymeric material carrying electrically conductive particles on a substrate, which bead acts to provide an EMI shielding gasket, said fluent polymeric material being extruded from an extruder head through an orifice by exerting air pressure on the fluent polymeric material, said process comprising the steps of: providing at least first and second containers holding, respectively, first and second components of the fluent polymeric material, each of said containers being coupled in fluid communication with the extrusion head via a conduit; admixing within the conduit a portion of the first and second components from the first and second containers to form the fluent polymeric material; delivering the fluent polymeric material through the conduit to the extrusion head; and supplying air pressure on a surface of the fluent polymeric material to cause the fluent polymeric material to flow out the extrusion head; and moving one of the extrusion head or substrate relative to the other forming a bead of said polymeric material on said substrate. 