A sterile drape with integrated sterile adaptor, a telerobotic surgical system, and method of use are provided for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system to maintain a sterile barrier between the sterile surgical field and the non-sterile robotic system while also providing an interface for transferring mechanical and electrical energy and signals.
Claims We claim: 1. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: a flexible exterior surface adapted to be positioned adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; a flexible interior surface fanning a cavity adapted to receive a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system, the manipulator arm including a spring loaded input; and a sterile adaptor including: a housing; a retractor plate assembly having a top retractor plate and a bottom retractor plate, the retractor plate assembly movably disposed relative to the housing; and a disc captured by the top retractor plate and the bottom retractor plate, the disc having a first rotatable surface adapted to engage the spring loaded input of the manipulator arm and a second rotatable surface adapted to engage a surgical instrument in the sterile field. 2. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface and the interior surface of the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 3. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface and the interior surface of the drape is couplable to a second drape portion. 4. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the sterile adaptor is Adapted to engage the surgical instrument selected from the group consisting of articulated Tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catherters, and suction orifices. 5. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the sterile adaptor includes an electrical contact for interfacing with an electrical contact on the manipulator arm and with an electrical contact on the surgical instrument. 6. The sterile drape of claim 5, wherein the electrical contact of the sterile adaptor is insert molded into a housing of the sterile adaptor. 7. The sterile drape of claim 1, wherein the disc includes apertures and teeth for engaging the manipulator arm and the sterile instrument. 8. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field, wherein the manipulator arm includes a spring loaded input; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape over the manipulator arm, the sterile drape including a sterile adaptor having: a housing; a retractor plate assembly having a top retractor plate and a bottom retractor plate, the retractor plate assembly movably disposed relative to the housing; and a disc captured by the top retractor plate and the bottom retractor plate, the disc having a first rotatable surface adapted to engage the spring loaded input of the manipulator arm and a second rotatable surface adapted to engage an input of the surgical instrument. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the manipulator arm is a patient side manipulator arm or an endoscope camera manipulator arm. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, and polycarbonate. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein the sterile adaptor includes an electrical contact for interfacing with an electrical contact on the manipulator arm and with an electrical contact on the surgical instrument. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the electrical contact of the sterile adaptor is insert molded into a housing of the sterile adaptor. 14. The system of claim 8, wherein the disc includes apertures and teeth for engaging the manipulator arm and the sterile instrument. 15. The system of claim 8, wherein the manipulator arm includes an adaptor receiving portion that has a plurality of spring loaded inputs for engaging the adaptor. 16. A method of coupling a surgical instrument to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: providing a sterile drape including: an exterior surface adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; an interior surface forming a cavity for receiving a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system, the manipulator arm including a spring loaded input; and a sterile adaptor for interfacing between the manipulator arm in the non-sterile field and a surgical instrument in the sterile field, the sterile adaptor including: a housing; a retractor plate assembly having a top retractor plate and a bottom retractor plate, the retractor plate assembly movably disposed relative to the housing; and a disc captured by the top retractor plate and the bottom retractor plate; positioning the sterile drape over the manipulator arm; engaging a first rotatable surface of the disc of the sterile adaptor with the spring loaded input of the manipulator arm; and engaging a second rotatable surface of the disc of the sterile adaptor with the surgical instrument. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein engaging the adaptor with the surgical instrument includes installing the instrument over the adaptor and engaging a disc of the adaptor with a pin of the instrument. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising fully covering the manipulator arm with the sterile drape. 