A robot system allows an operator to connect a peripheral to a robot controller without entering the operation range of a movable robot assembly. The robot controller has a data communication interface therein which is connected through a connector cable to a relay that is mounted on a safety cage. The relay has a connector for connecting a data communication cable to which a transmitter/receiver is connected. A peripheral such as a programmable logic controller or a personal computer is connected to the transmitter/receiver through a data communication cable. When the data communication cable connected to the transmitter/receiver is connected to the relay, the robot controller is connected to a network. The robot controller can easily be connected to the peripheral by connecting the data communication cable to the relay.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system comprising: a movable robot assembly movable within an operation range; a robot controller integrally connected to said movable robot assembly; a peripheral device disposed outside of said operation range; a data communication cable connected to said peripheral device for data communications with said robot controller; a connector cable connected to said robot controller for data communications with said peripheral device; and a relay disposed outside of said operation range and having a connector for interconnecting said data communication cable and said connector cable. 2. A robot system according to claim 1, further comprising a safety cage surrounding said operation range, said relay being mounted on an outer surface of said safety cage. 3. A robot system according to claim 1, further comprising a transmitter/receiver connected to said data communication cable for connection to said peripheral device or said robot controller. 4. A robot system according to claim 1, wherein said connector cable comprises a cable connected to said relay for said robot controller to effect data communications through Ethernet. 5. A robot system according to claim 1, wherein said connector cable comprises a cable connected to said relay for said robot controller to effect data communications according to RS-232C. 6. A robot system according to claim 1, wherein said peripheral device comprises a personal computer. 7. A robot system according to claim 1, wherein said peripheral device comprises a programmable logic controller. 