A rotary seal is located in a gap between an inner surface and an outer surface. A radial bearing allows the inner and outer surfaces to rotate relative to each other. A radial barrier includes a plurality of annular outward-pointing flanges attached to the inner surface interleaved with a plurality of annular inward-pointing flanges attached to the outer surface. The flanges may be angled and have an upturned lip located at an inner edge of each flange. The radial seal may include a magnet. A robotic arm has a first housing with a top surface and an aperture therein. A shaft extends up through the aperture, and there is a gap between the shaft and an inner edge of the aperture. A splash guard may extend over said gap, and an indentation in said top surface may at least partially surround the gap.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radial seal comprising: an inner surface; an outer surface, the inner and outer surfaces separated by a gap; a radial bearing located in the gap for allowing the inner and outer surfaces to rotate relative to each other; and a radial barrier located in said gap, the barrier including a plurality of angled annular outward-pointing flanges attached to the inner surface interleaved with a plurality of annular inward-pointing flanges attached to said outer surface, each of said flanges having an upturned lip at an inner edge thereof. 2. The radial seal of claim 1 wherein the flange located nearest the radial bearing is angled downwardly. 3. The radial seal of claim 2 wherein the flanges other than the flange located nearest the radial bearing are angled upwardly. 4. The radial seal of claim 1 further comprising a magnet located in the gap. 5. A radial seal comprising: an inner surface; an outer surface, the inner and outer surfaces separated by a gap; a radial bearing located in the gap for allowing the inner and outer surfaces to rotate relative to each other; a magnet located in the gap; and a radial barrier located in the gap, the barrier including a plurality of annular outward-pointing flanges attached to the inner surface interleaved with a plurality of annular inward-pointing flanges attached to the outer surface. 6. The radial seal of claim 5 wherein the magnet is attached to a flange. 7. A robotic arm comprising: a housing having a top surface with an aperture therein and an indentation at least partially surrounding the aperture; a shaft extending up through the aperture, there being a gap between the shaft and the housing; a radial bearing located in the gap for allowing the shaft to rotate relative to the housing; and a radial barrier located in the gap, the barrier including a plurality of annular outward-pointing flanges attached to the shaft interleaved with a plurality of annular inward-pointing flanges attached to the housing. 8. The robotic arm of claim 7 further comprising a splash guard connected to the shaft and extending over the aperture. 9. A robotic arm comprising: a housing having a top surface with an aperture therein a shaft extending up through the aperture, there being a gap between the shaft and the housing; a splash guard connected to the shaft and extending over the aperture; a radial bearing located in the gap for allowing the shaft to rotate relative to the housing; a radial barrier located in the gap, the barrier including a plurality of annular outward-pointing flanges attached to the shaft interleaved with a plurality of annular inward-pointing flanges attached to the housing. 