A robotic assembly is provided that simulates the size, appearance and movement of a human torso. The torso includes a unique combination of high speed rotary and linear actuators arranged in a geometry that enables anatomically correct human-like movement, and which provides sufficient internal room and mounting surfaces for the actuators and related equipment such as hydraulic or pneumatic lines, electronic control circuits, valves, and audio playback devices. A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides up to nine degrees of freedom. The upper torso includes a pair of rotary arm actuators ("rotacs") for rotating arms up to 200 degrees. The rotacs are pivotally attached to a centrally located mounting structure for up-and-down motion (shoulder shrugging) and for forward-and-back motion (shoulder forward). Movement of each rotac for shrugging and shoulder forward is driven by a pair of linear actuators which are attached between the centrally located mounting structure and the output end of each rotac, with one located at the back (for driving the rotac forward-and-back) and one located above the rotac (for lifting and lowering the output shaft of the rotac). The rotary and linear actuators which move the arms and shoulders can be independently controlled to enable the left arm/shoulder to move independently of the right, or can be ganged together to enable the left and right shoulder/arm to be moved in concert. The lower torso potion of the assembly includes a torso twist rotac which is attached to a base (to which could be connected a leg assembly) such that the output shaft extends vertically upwards. The output shaft of a second rotac is rigidly mounted to the output shaft of the torso twist rotac so that it is held in a substantially horizontal position, thus enabling the housing of the second rotac to rotate about its horizontal output shaft, thus providing a torso sidebend function. The housing of the centrally located mounting structure is pivotally connected to a pair of legs extending away from the housing of the second rotac, and a linear actuator is used to link the centrally located mounting structure to the second rotac-linking the upper and lower torso and providing the torso forebend function.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic torso which simulates the appearance and size of a human torso, having an outer shell and an inner structure comprising: a base; and a first rotary actuator mounted to said base, said rotary actuator having a housing with an inner wall defining a generally cylindrical housing chamber of circular cross section having a longitudinal axis, a unitary, self-lubricating rotor having a hub defining at least one circular arc surface with at least one radially outwardly extending vane extending from said hub and fitting closely within, and adapted to rotate about the axis of said housing chamber, first and second end plates, each attached to said housing, housing chamber dividing means equal in number to the number of said vanes and stationary with respect to said housing and said end plates, and, an output shaft coupled to said rotor and extending through at least one of said end plates. said first rotary actuator oriented on said base so that said output shaft is substantially vertical for rotating the torso to the left and to the right. 2. The robotic torso of claim 1 additionally comprising a second rotary actuator, substantially similar to said first rotary actuator, said second rotary actuator having a housing with a front surface and a bracket, said output shaft of said second rotary actuator being rigidly connected to the output shaft of said first rotary actuator such that the output shaft of the second rotary actuator is substantially horizontal, and such that the housing of said second rotary actuator will rotate to the left and right of the output shaft of the second rotary actuator. 3. The robotic torso of claim 2 additionally comprising a bilateral mounting structure having a front surface, a back surface, a top, and two spaced apart legs, each leg of the bilateral mounting structure being rotatably attached to said bracket of the second rotary actuator to permit the front surface of the bilateral mounting structure to pivot towards and away from the front surface of the second rotary actuator, and a first linear actuator attached between the front surface of the second rotary actuator and the bilateral mounting structure for rotating the legs of the bilateral mounting structure about the bracket of the second rotary actuator. 4. The robotic torso of claim 3 additionally comprising: a left plate and a right plate hinged together along a first edge with a hinge pin which is attached to the top of the bilateral mounting structure, said left and right plate each having a top surface and a second end extending away from the hinge pin to the left and right respectively; a third rotary actuator having an output shaft, said third rotary actuator pivotally attached to the second end of the left plate using a first pivot pin having a longitudinal axis which is substantially perpendicular to the top surface of the left plate, and oriented so that the output shaft extends to the left away from the bilateral mounting structure, said output shaft capable of rotating an attached left arm structure; and, a fourth rotary actuator having an output shaft, said fourth rotary actuator pivotally attached to the second end of the right plate using a second pivot pin having a longitudinal axis which is substantially perpendicular to the top surface of the right plate, and oriented so that the output shaft extends to the right away from the bilateral mounting structure, said output shaft capable of rotating an attached right arm structure. 5. The robotic torso of claim 4 additionally comprising: a mounting bracket having a back surface, said mounting bracket extending from the top of the bilateral mounting structure above the third and fourth rotary actuators; a second linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the third rotary actuator and the mounting bracket at a position above the third rotary actuator, such that when the second linear actuator is activated, the left plate will pivot about the hinge pin; and, a third linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the fourth rotary actuator and the mounting bracket at a position above the fourth rotary actuator, such that when the third linear actuator is activated, the right plate will pivot about the hinge pin. 6. The robotic torso of claim 5 additionally comprising: a fourth linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the third rotary actuator and the back surface of the bilateral mounting structure or the back surface of the mounting bracket such that when the fourth linear actuator is activated, the third rotary actuator will pivot about the first pivot pin; and, a fifth linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the fourth rotary actuator and the back surface of the bilateral mounting structure or the back surface of the mounting bracket such that when the fifth linear actuator is activated, the fourth rotary actuator will pivot about the second pivot pin. 7. The robotic torso of claim 1 wherein said first rotary actuator is capable of rotating its output shaft through an arc of up to about 90 degrees. 8. The robotic torso of claim 2 wherein said housing of said second rotary actuator is capable of rotating through an arc of up to about 90 degrees about its output shaft. 9. The robotic torso of claim 3 wherein first linear actuator can rotate said legs of said bilateral mounting structure through an arc of up to about 30 degrees. 10. The robotic torso of claim 4 wherein said output shaft of said third rotary actuator can rotate said attached left arm structure through an arc of up to about 200 degrees, and wherein said output shaft of said fourth rotary actuator can rotate said attached right arm structures through an arc of up to about 200 degrees. 11. The robotic torso of claim 5 wherein said second linear actuator can rotate said left plate about said hinge pin through an arc of up to about 15 degrees, and wherein said third linear actuator can rotate said right plate about said hinge pin through an arc of up to about 15 degrees. 12. The robotic torso of claim 6 wherein said fourth linear actuator can rotate said third rotary actuator about the first pivot pin through an arc of up to about 25 degrees, and wherein said fifth linear actuator can rotate said fourth rotary actuator about the second pivot pin through an arc of up to about 25 degrees. 13. The robotic torso of claim 6 wherein each of said linear actuators are provided with an independent means for control. 14. The robotic torso of claim 13 wherein each said independent means for control is an electrically controlled valve. 15. The robotic torso of claim 13 additionally comprising a means for controlling the second and third linear actuators together, and a means for controlling the fourth and fifth linear actuators together. 16. A robotic torso for simulating the appearance, size and movement of a human torso, and which can be used in conjunction with a leg assembly, a left and right arm assembly, and a head and neck assembly to form a partial or complete robotic human figure, said robotic torso including an outer shell and an inner structure comprising; a base; a first rotary actuator attached to said base, said rotary actuator having an output shaft oriented so as to be substantially vertical; a second rotary actuator having a housing with a front surface, an output shaft, and a mounting surface, said output shaft being rigidly connected to the output shaft of said first rotary actuator such that the output shaft of the second rotary actuator is substantially horizontal; a bilateral mounting structure having a front surface, a back surface, a top, and two spaced apart legs, each leg of the bilateral mounting structure being rotatably attached to the mounting surface of the second rotary actuator to permit the front surface of the bilateral mounting structure to pivot towards and away from the front surface of the second rotary actuator; a first linear actuator attached between the second rotary actuator and the bilateral mounting structure; a left plate and a right plate hinged together along a first edge with a hinge pin which is attached to the top of the bilateral mounting structure, said left and right plate each having a top surface and a second end extending away from the hinge to the left and right respectively; a third rotary actuator having an output shaft, said third rotary actuator pivotally attached to the second end of the left plate using a first pivot pin having a longitudinal axis which is substantially perpendicular to the top surface of the left plate, and oriented so that the output shaft extends to the left away from the bilateral mounting structure; a fourth rotary actuator having an output shaft, said fourth rotary actuator pivotally attached to the second end of the right plate using a second pivot pin having a longitudinal axis which is substantially perpendicular to the top surface of the right plate, and oriented so that the output shaft extends to the right away from the bilateral mounting structure; a mounting bracket having a back surface, said mounting bracket extending from the top of the bilateral mounting structure above the third and fourth rotary actuators; a second linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the third rotary actuator and the mounting bracket at a position above the third rotary actuator, such that when the second linear actuator is activated, the left plate will pivot about the hinge pin; a third linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the fourth rotary actuator and the mounting bracket at a position above the fourth rotary actuator, such that when the third linear actuator is activated, the right plate will pivot about the hinge pin; a fourth linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the third rotary actuator and the back surface of the bilateral mounting structure or the back surface of the mounting bracket such that when the fourth linear actuator is activated, the third rotary actuator will pivot about the first pivot pin; and, a fifth linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the fourth rotary actuator and the back surface of the bilateral mounting structure or the back surface of the mounting bracket such that when the fifth linear actuator is activated, the fourth rotary actuator will pivot about the second pivot pin. 17. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein the first, second, third and fourth rotary actuators each comprise: a housing having an inner wall defining a generally cylindrical housing chamber of circular cross section having a longitudinal axis; a unitary, self-lubricating rotor having a hub defining at least one circular arc surface with at least one radially outwardly extending vane extending from said hub and fitting closely within, and adapted to rotate about the axis of said housing chamber; first and second end plates, each attached to said housing; housing chamber dividing means equal in number to the number of said vanes and stationary with respect to said housing and said end plates; and, an output shaft coupled to said rotor and extending through at least one of said end plates. 18. The robotic torso of claim 17 wherein said output shaft is supported from said first end plate by a first bearing and from said second end plate by a second bearing. 19. The robotic torso of claim 17 wherein said rotor is a self lubricating plastic material and the surfaces of said housing and said end plates adjacent said rotor are polished metal. 20. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein each of said first, second, third, fourth and fifth linear actuators are hydraulic or pneumatic cylinders. 21. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein each of said linear actuators are provided with an independent means for control. 22. The robotic torso of claim 21 wherein each said independent means for control is an electrically controlled valve. 23. The robotic torso of claim 21 additionally comprising a means for controlling the second and third linear actuators together, and a means for controlling the fourth and fifth linear actuators together. 24. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein said output shaft of said first rotary actuator and the output shaft of said second rotary actuator can rotate up to about 90 degrees. 25. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein said output shaft of said third rotary actuator and the output shaft of said fourth rotary actuator can rotate up to about 200 degrees. 26. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein said first linear actuator can pivot said bilateral mounting structure towards and away from the front surface of the second rotary actuator through an arc of about 30 degrees. 27. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein said second and third linear actuators can pivot said left and right plates, respectively, about said hinge pin through an arc of about 15 degrees. 28. The robotic torso of claim 16 wherein said fourth and fifth linear actuators can pivot said third and fourth rotary actuators, respectively about said first and second pivot pin, through an arc of about 25 degrees. 29. A robotic torso for use in constructing a robotic figure which simulates the appearance, size and movement of a human being, the robotic torso comprising: a flexible outer torso shell, for simulating the external appearance, size and shape of a human torso, said flexible outer torso shell having a waist, a left side, a right side, a front, a back, a left shoulder and a right shoulder; an inner structure contained completely within the outer torso shell, said inner structure including a means for rotating the torso at the waist about a substantially vertical axis, up to about 45 degrees to the left side and up to about 45 degrees to the right side; a means for rotating the torso at the waist about a substantially horizontal axis passing through the waist from the front to the back, up to about 45 degrees to the left side and up to about 45 degrees to the right side; a means for rotating the torso forward and back at the waist, about a substantially horizontal axis passing through the waist from the left side to the right side, up to about 20 degrees from vertical to the front and up to about 10 degrees from vertical to the back; a means for rotating a left arm attached to the left shoulder about a substantially horizontal axis passing through the shoulder from the left side to the right side up to about 200 degrees; a means for rotating a right arm attached to the right shoulder about a substantially horizontal axis passing through the right shoulder from the left side to the right side up to about 200 degrees; a means for vertically raising the left shoulder and right shoulder to provide a shrugging motion; and, a means for moving the left shoulder and right shoulder horizontally forward or back. 30. The robotic torso of claim 29 wherein the means for rotating the torso at the waist about a vertical axis includes a base and a first rotary actuator attached to said base, said rotary actuator having an output shaft oriented so as to be substantially vertical. 31. The robotic torso of claim 29 wherein the means for rotating the torso at the waist about a horizontal axis passing from the front to the back includes a second rotary actuator having a housing with a front surface and an output shaft which is rigidly connected to the output shaft of said first rotary actuator such that the output shaft of the second rotary actuator is substantially horizontal, such that when said second rotary actuator is activated, the housing rotates about its output shaft causing the torso to bend at the waist, rotating to the left and the right about a substantially horizontal axis passing through the front and back at the waist of the torso. 32. The robotic torso of claim 29 wherein the means for rotating the torso at the waist about a substantially horizontal axis passing through the waist from the left side to the right side includes a pivoting mount attached to a first end of a housing of the second rotary actuator so as to pivot about a substantially horizontal axis passing from left to right through the waist of the torso, a first linear actuator attached between said pivoting mount and said housing of said second rotary actuator, such that when said first linear actuator is activated, the torso will be driven forward or back in a bowing motion. 33. The robotic torso of claim 32 wherein the means for rotating a left arm includes a third rotary actuator having a housing with a first end and a second end and an output shaft extending out from said second end, said third rotary actuator pivotally attached at the first end to the pivoting mount so that said output shaft of third rotary actuator extends away from the torso, said third rotary actuator being attached to pivot about a substantially vertical axis passing from a top of the left shoulder through the bottom, and about a horizontal axis passing through the first end from the front of the torso to the back, thus enabling the housing of said third rotary actuator to move towards the front and back about a substantially vertical axis and up and down about a substantially horizontal axis passing from front to back, and enabling the output shaft of the third rotary actuator to rotate in said housing. 34. The robotic torso of claim 33 wherein the means for rotating a right arm includes a fourth rotary actuator having a housing with a first end and a second end and an output shaft extending out from said second end, said fourth rotary actuator pivotally attached at the first end to the pivoting mount so that said output shaft of said fourth rotary actuator extends away from the torso, said fourth rotary actuator being attached to pivot about a substantially vertical axis passing from a top of the right shoulder through the bottom, and about a horizontal axis passing through the first end from the front of the torso to the back, thus enabling the housing of said fourth rotary actuator to move towards the front and back about a substantially vertical axis and up and down about a substantially horizontal axis passing from front to back, and enabling the output shaft of the fourth rotary actuator to rotate in said housing. 35. The robotic torso of claim 34 wherein said means for vertically raising the left shoulder and right shoulder to provide a shrugging motion includes a mounting bracket having a back surface, said mounting bracket extending from the top of the bilateral mounting structure above the third and fourth rotary actuators, a second linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the third rotary actuator and the mounting bracket at a position above the third rotary actuator, such that when the second linear actuator is activated, the left plate will pivot about the hinge pin, and a third linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the fourth rotary actuator and the mounting bracket at a position above the fourth rotary actuator, such that when the third linear actuator is activated, the right plate will pivot about the hinge pin. 36. The robotic torso of claim 35 wherein said means for moving the left shoulder and right shoulder forward or back includes a fourth linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the third rotary actuator and the back surface of the bilateral mounting structure or the back surface of the mounting bracket, such that when the fourth linear actuator is activated, the third rotary actuator will pivot about the first pivot pin, and a fifth linear actuator attached between the output shaft end of the fourth rotary actuator and the back surface of the bilateral mounting structure or the back surface of the mounting bracket, such that when the fifth linear actuator is activated the fourth rotary actuator will pivot about the second pivot pin. 