An apparatus for automatically forming a plurality of needle-suture assemblies out of a plurality of unsorted needles and an indefinite length strand of suture material, and, automatically positioning them within a package tray, comprises a first machine located at a first location for sorting a plurality of randomly oriented needles and orienting each needle for automatic handling at a first predetermined location, a second machine located at a second predetermined location for automatically drawing and cutting an indefinite length strand of suture material and automatically inserting a free end thereof into a suture receiving opening of the needle, and swaging the needle about the sutures to form a needle suture assembly, and a first indexing device for sequentially receiving individual oriented needles at the first location and transporting each of the needles from the first location to the second location to form the needle-suture assemblies. A second indexing device is provided for registering an empty package tray at a third location for sequentially receiving one or more of the needle-suture assemblies from the first indexing device. A control system computer enables the first indexing device to sequentially transport the needle-suture assemblies from the second location to the third location, and enables the sequential insertion of the needle-suture assemblies to the package tray while registered at the third location.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An automated system for attaching suture material to a suture receiving opening formed in a surgical needle, and for packaging the suture material and surgical needle attached thereto, said system comprising: (a) a first means located at a first location for sorting a plurality of randomly oriented needles and orienting each needle of said plurality of needles for automatic handling at a first predetermined location; (b) a second means located at a second predetermined location for automatically drawing and cutting an indefinite length strand of said suture material and automatically inserting a free end thereof into the suture receiving opening of a needle and swaging the needle about the suture material to form a needle-suture assembly; (c) a first indexing means for sequentially receiving individual oriented needles at said first location and sequentially transporting said oriented needles from said first location to said second location; (d) second indexing means for registering a package tray at a third location for sequentially receiving a plurality of needle-suture assemblies from said first indexing means; and (e) a control means for enabling said first indexing means to sequentially transport a plurality of needle-suture assemblies from said second location to said third location, and enabling the sequential insertion of said needle-suture assemblies into said package tray while registered at said third location, whereby unsorted needles and an indefinite length of suture material are automatically formed into a plurality of needle-suture assemblies, and then positioned within said package tray at said third location. 2. The automated system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first indexing means includes multi-axis gripper means for sequentially receiving and transporting each oriented needle in a predetermined orientation, said control system enabling said multi-axis gripper means to move between a first retracted position and a second extended position with respect to said first indexing means. 3. The automated system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said multi-axis gripper means includes a plurality of pins for engaging a said needle, one of said plurality of pins responsive to said control means to move between a first engaged position enabling said multi-axis gripper means to grip a respective said surgical needle in a precisely oriented position, and a second non-engaged position for relaxing the grip on said respective surgical needle. 4. The automated system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said first indexing means transports said respective needle to said second location with said multi-axis gripping means engaging said respective needle in said oriented position. 5. The automated system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second means located at said second predetermined location includes: (a) a drawing frame, said frame having a longitudinal guide member and defining a drawing axis extending parallel thereto; (b) means for feeding a flexible indefinite length strand of said suture material to said drawing axis for drawing and cutting; (c) first and second gripping means for gripping said indefinite length suture strand and drawing it along said drawing axis, said first gripping means mounted for reciprocatory movement on said longitudinal guide member; (d) means for cutting said indefinite length of suture strand; and (e) said second gripping means mounted for reciprocatory movement on a second longitudinal guide member and movable to a start position along said drawing axis and below said cutting means, while said first drawing means is drawing said indefinite length suture strand over a long stroke to an insertion zone located a predetermined distance beyond said cutting means, whereby said indefinite length suture strand is inserted within said suture receiving opening of a needle and cut to a predetermined length by said cutting means after said second gripping means has gripped said indefinite length suture strand at said start position. 6. The automated system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said feeding means further comprises first and second drive motors for said first and second gripping means, respectively. 7. The automated system as claimed in claim 6 wherein said control means further includes at least one sensor means located on said drawing frame for verifying the position of said first and second gripping means along their respective guide member and for generating a signal for said control means. 8. The automated system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said control means enables said first and second drive motors to reciprocate said first and second gripping means in response to said control signal. 9. The automated system as claimed in claim 8 wherein each of said first and second gripping means further include pneumatically operated retractable gripping elements having a first engaged position for gripping said length of suture strand, and a second retracted position, said control means enabling one of said first and second gripping means to traverse the drawing axis with its gripping elements in said engaged position, while simultaneously enabling the other of said first and second gripping means to reciprocate along said drawing axis with its gripping elements retracted to avoid mechanical interference therebetween. 10. An automated system as claimed in claim 9 further comprising a moveable carrier mounted for selective movement along said drawing axis, said movable carrier having said cutting means mounted thereon and further including means for stiffening a portion of said indefinite length suture strand while under tension at a stiffening zone defined adjacent with said start position, said control means enabling said stiffening means to form said stiffened portion of said suture strand after one of said first and second gripping means reciprocates to said start position. 11. The automated system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said stiffened portion of said suture strand is advanced to said start position when one of said first and second gripping means advances for a short stroke distance, said control means enabling said one of said first and second gripping means to grip said stiffened portion of said suture strand at said start position prior to cutting thereof. 12. The automated system as claimed in claim 11 wherein said control means enables said cutting means to cut said suture strand at said start position to create a suture strand of definite length gripped by one of said first and second gripping means and a suture strand of indefinite length having a stiffened tip portion thereof gripped by the other of said first and second gripping means. 13. The automated system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said second means includes means for swaging, said second means including first and second swaging dies, said first swaging die having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, said control means enabling said second swaging die to be reciprocally positioned next to said first swaging die to form a swage die opening for receiving a needle. 14. The automated system as claimed in claim 13 wherein said control means enables said first indexing means to position said suture receiving opening of a needle in said swage die opening. 15. The automated system as claimed in claim 14 wherein said means for swaging further includes an alignment guide means positioned between a free end of said indefinite length suture strand and said suture receiving end of a needle, said alignment guide means for directing said free end of the suture strand into the suture receiving opening of a needle positioned in said swage die opening. 16. The automated system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said control means enables a first drive motor to advance said one of said first and second gripping means along said suture drawing axis for a short stroke distance to insert said free end of the suture strand through said alignment guide means and into the suture receiving opening of a needle positioned in said swage die opening. 17. The automated system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said cutting means is a retractable cutter for cutting said indefinite length strand of suture material to definite length while said strand is suspended, said retractable cutter comprising: (a) a stationary guide means, said guide means positioned adjacent said indefinite length strand of suture material to be cut, said strand defining a first axis; (b) an actuator mounted on said guide for providing at least reciprocal movement along a second axis; (c) a pivotal locating arm for positioning said indefinite length strand for cutting, said arm having a first end pivotally mounted along said second axis for pivoting from a first retracted position to a second strand engaging position in response to movement of said actuator; (d) a cutting blade mounted for a least reciprocal movement across said first axis defined by said indefinite length strand of suture material, said cutting blade responsive to said reciprocating actuator to move from a first retracted position to a second cutting position; whereby said control means enables said actuator to position said indefinite length strand with said pivotal arm and then cut said strand with said cutting blade in a single action. 18. The automated system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second means includes a means for swaging, said swaging means including first and second swaging dies, said first swaging die having an end thereof defining a portion of a swage die opening, and said second swaging die having an end thereof defining another portion of said swage die opening, said control means enabling said second swaging die to be reciprocally positioned next to said first swaging die to form a swage die opening for receiving a needle. 19. The automated system as claimed in claim 18 wherein said first indexing means includes a multi-axis gripper means in a retracted position prior to positioning a surgical needle within said swage die opening, said control means enabling said first indexing means to extend said multi-axis gripper means toward said swage die opening to position said suture receiving opening of a needle within said swage die opening. 20. The automated system as claimed in claim 19 wherein said swaging means includes first and second drive means, said first drive means being responsive to said control means to open said first swaging die for placement of said suture receiving opening of a needle within said swage die opening. 21. The automated system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said swaging dies are resiliently biased into engagement to grip the suture receiving end of a needle prior to swaging thereof. 22. The automated system as claimed in claim 21 wherein said control means relaxes said multi-axis gripper to a non-engaging position after said suture receiving opening of a needle is positioned within said swage die opening. 23. The automated system as claimed in claim 22 wherein first swaging die is fixed and said second drive means includes a swage air cylinder for supplying air pressure to move said second swaging die toward said first swaging die to swage said needle while gripped therebetween. 24. The automated system as claimed in claim 18 wherein said swaging means further includes means for adjusting the position of said first swaging die to adjust the amount of swage die travel applied to said surgical needles. 25. The automated system as claimed in claim 24 wherein said first swaging die includes a wedge follower located at one end thereof, said means for adjusting the position of said first fixed swaging die including a wedge assembly positioned to move transverse to said wedge follower to laterally move said wedge follower and said first swaging die in accordance with transverse movement of said wedge assembly. 26. The automated system as claimed in claim 25 wherein said swaging means further includes a servomotor means for precisely controlling transverse movement of said wedge assembly, said servomotor means for rotating a swage adjust screw of a predetermined pitch, said rotation of said swage adjust screw being translated into linear motion of said wedge assembly. 27. The automated system as claimed in claim 26 wherein said servomotor means is responsive to said control means to enable controlled rotation of said swage adjust screw and proper positioning of said first swaging die. 28. The automated system as claimed in claim 24 further including a means for automatically testing the swage bond of a needle-suture assembly prior to insertion in said testing package tray, said means including a support means for supporting said needle-suture assembly. 29. The automated system as claimed in claim 28 wherein said first indexing means includes a multi-axis gripper means in a retracted position prior to positioning said needle and suture assembly at said support means, said control means enabling said indexing means to extend said multi-axis gripper means toward said support means to position said needle-suture assembly thereon. 30. The automated system as claimed in claim 29 wherein said means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle-suture assembly further includes gripping means responsive to said control means for positively gripping the suture strand of said suture material at a first position below said support means, said gripping means having a means connected thereto for applying a positive downward force of predetermined value to said suture strand while the needles of said needle-suture assembly is supported by said support means. 31. The automated system as claimed in claim 30 wherein said means for automatically testing the swage bond of said needle-suture assembly further includes means for releasably maintaining said gripping means at said first position prior to applying said positive downward force, said means for maintaining said gripping means at said first position including air cylinder means responsive to said control means for providing air pressure to vertically position said gripping means at said first position prior to gripping said suture, and to release said gripping means from its first position after gripping said suture to apply said positive downward force of predetermined value to said suture strand. 32. The automated system as claimed in claim 31 wherein said means for automatically testing the strength of said swage bond of said needle-suture assembly further includes means for measuring the value of said positive downward force applied to said suture strand. 33. The automated system as claimed in claim 32 wherein said measuring means includes a piezoelectric transducer for measuring the deflection of said support means when said positive downward force is applied to said suture strand. 34. The automated system as claimed in claim 32 wherein said control means includes means for comparing said measured value of said applied positive downward force with a predetermined lower failure threshold value and a predetermined upper failure threshold value, said control means generating a test fail signal when said measured value of said positive force is above said upper failure threshold value or below said lower failure threshold value. 35. The automated system as claimed in claim 32 wherein said control means generates a first signal for increasing swage deformation and a second signal for decreasing swage deformation based upon said measured value of said positive force, said means for adjusting the position of said first swaging die responsive to said first signal to adjust said first swaging die to decrease swage die travel applied to a surgical needle, and, responsive to said second signal to adjust said first swaging die to increase swage die travel applied to a surgical needle. 36. The automated system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said package tray includes predetermined needle-clamping locations for receiving said needle-suture assemblies. 37. The automated system as claimed in claim 36 wherein said second indexing means includes support plate for supporting said package tray. 38. The automated system as claimed in claim 37 further including a means responsive to said control means for mounting said package tray on said support plate indexed at a home position, said means including a vacuum gripper means for gripping said package tray. 39. The automated system as claimed in claim 37 wherein said control means includes a tray-detecting means located proximate said support plate and package tray and mounting a sensor for detecting the presence of a package tray on said support plate, said control means generating an error signal to indicate the absence of said tray on said support plate. 40. The automated system as claimed in claim 37 further including means responsive to said control means for imparting incrementally vertically registering movements to said support plate at said third location to sequentially register said package tray in synchronism with said transfer of said needle-suture assemblies thereto. 41. The automated system as claimed in claim 40 wherein said first indexing means includes multi-axis gripper means in a retracted position prior to positioning a needle-suture assembly within one of said predetermined needle-clamping locations, said control means enabling said first indexing means to extend said multi-axis gripper means toward said package tray to deposit a needle-suture assembly into one of said predetermined needle-clamping locations of said package tray, each of said needle-suture assemblies having a definite length of suture strand depending therefrom. 42. The automated system as claimed in claim 41 wherein said control means enables said means for imparting incrementally vertical movements to said support plate to return said support plate and said package tray mounted thereon to a home position. 43. The automated system as claimed in claim 37 further including a means responsive to said control means for disengaging said suture package containing said needle-suture assemblies from said package tray support plate, said means for disengaging said suture package comprising a pivotable gripper arrangement for engaging and conveying said package tray to a storage device. 44. The automated system as claimed in claim 43, wherein said means for disengaging said suture package includes means for rejecting said package in response to an error signal. 45. The automated system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said package tray includes a peripheral channel for receiving a plurality of suture strands of said suture material depending from said needle-suture assemblies, said system further including means for automatically winding said plurality of suture strands into said peripheral channel of said package tray. 46. The automated system as claimed in claim 45 wherein said control means further includes a needle-detecting means comprising means mounting a plurality of sensors reciprocable towards and away from said package tray containing said needle-suture assemblies to enable verification of the presence and positioning of an appropriate quantity of needles in said tray, said control means generating an error signal to indicate the absence of a needle-suture assembly on said package 47. The automated system as claimed in claim 45 wherein said winding means comprises: (a) means responsive to said control means for gathering said depending suture strands into a bundle and imparting tension thereto; (b) drive means responsive to said control means for imparting rotational movement to said support plate and said package tray about an axis extending normal to the plane of said support plate and tray; and (c) means operatively associated with said suture strand gathering means for winding said bundle into said peripheral tray channel. 48. The automated system as claimed in claim 47 wherein said means for gathering said depending suture strands comprises a vacuum-generating means located below said package tray for imparting a controlled amount of tension to said depending suture strands. 49. The automated system as claimed in claim 48 wherein said second indexing means further comprises at least one tool nest that includes a housing, a cam plate rotatably mounted on the one end of said housing facing a workstation, said support plate being fastened to said cam plate so as to be secured against rotation relative to said cam plate, said support plate including a vertically oriented platform having said package tray mounted in surface-contacting relationship thereon. 50. The automated system as claimed in claim 49 wherein said control means enables said drive means to impart a predetermined controlled amount of rotation to said support plate and package tray during the winding of said sutures into said peripheral tray channel. 51. The automated system as claimed in claim 50 wherein said suture winding means comprises a stylus arrangement for contacting said tensioned and bundled suture strands or guiding said strands into said peripheral tray channel to facilitate winding of said sutures into said tray during rotation of said tray on said support plate. 52. The automated system as claimed in claim 51 wherein said stylus arrangement comprises: stylus legs contacting said sutures; a piston rod having one end mounting said stylus legs; a stationary cylinder mounting said piston rod for reciprocatory motion therein to enable said stylus legs to selectively engage into and follow said peripheral tray channel during rotation of said tray, wherein said stationary cylinder includes means responsive to said control means for providing pressure axially therein to extend said piston rod from said stationary cylinder to enable contact with said sutures, and to retract said piston rod into said stationary cylinder. 53. The automated system as claimed in claim 52 wherein said stylus arrangement further includes cam follower means mounted on said piston rod proximate-said stylus legs, said cam plate having a peripheral camming surface contacted by said cam follower means responsive to axial pressure exerted against said piston rod by pressurized air in said cylinder. 54. The automated system as claimed in claim 52 wherein said tray includes a plurality of resilient cantilevered fingers extending over said peripheral channel for protectively maintaining the sutures in said channel, said control system enabling said stylus legs to engage beneath successive cantilevered fingers for raising said fingers during rotation of said tray and support plate and continually guiding therebeneath and biasing said bundle of sutures into and towards the bottom of said peripheral channel. 55. The automated system as claimed in claim 47 wherein said means for automatically winding said sutures further includes restraint means for contacting an exposed surface of said tray on said support plate, said restraint means operatively connected to said drive means during rotation of said tray so as to inhibit said tray from being displaced from said support plate, said restraint means including an axially shiftable restraint plate contactable with said tray and being rotatable therewith, wherein said control means enables said restraint plate to be in a retracted inoperative position while said support plate and said tray are in a non-rotating condition, and enables said restraint plate to extend to an operative position when said support plate and said package tray are rotating. 56. The automated system as claimed in claim 1 further including means for applying a cover to said tray to form a package containing said needles and attached sutures. 57. The automated system as claimed in claim 56, wherein said means for applying said cover on said tray comprises a pivotable arm having grippers for successively obtaining an individual cover from a supply of covers; and means responsive to said control means for pivoting said grippers into alignment with the tray on said support plate and extending said grippers to position said cover on said tray and releasing said cover and withdrawing said grippers. 