An apparatus which securely grasps a wide range of three dimensional objects while relaying digital data about the surface grasped using pneumatically actuated mechanical probes for such grasping and optomechanical encoding for such relaying of data. Such optomechanical encoding employs encoder tubes with columns of patterned slots and holes to selectively transmit light through synthetic plastic fibers. A process of constructing the portion of the apparatus where the optomechanical encoding producing such data occurs which comprises continuously looping the synthetic plastic fibers necessary for light transmission, injecting an adhesive and sealant to enable pneumatic operation of the apparatus, and cutting the adhesive and sealant and synthetic plastic fibers in a circular pattern to allow the passage of the encoder tubes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects comprising: a. a plurality of probe subassemblies for contacting and gripping said objects; b. a bearing plate having a plurality of holes which retain said probe subassemblies in an initially retracted position, when said bearing plate first contacts an object and through which holes said probe subassemblies pass to contact and grip said object after said bearing plate contacts said object; c. a finger housing adapted to house a portion of the length of each of said probe subassemblies in said initially retracted position and through which each of said probe subassemblies can pass to contact and grip said object; d. a sensor array adapted to permit a portion of the length of each of said probe subassemblies to pass through said sensor array; e. a plurality of photodetection circuits adapted to convert displacements of said probe subassemblies to optical signals; and f. a communications hardware circuit comprising a plurality of said photodetection circuits and receiving means, decoding means, and transmitting means for gathering and storing data from said sensor in the form of digital signals. 2. A sensor according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of probe subassemblies are disposed in a two-dimensional array. 3. A sensor according to claim 2, wherein said two-dimensional array has an equal number of rows and columns. 4. A sensor according to claim 3, wherein each one of said probe subassemblies comprise: a. a probe; b. a retainer tube which is immovably attached to one end of said probe; and c. an encoder tube which is immovably attached to the end of said retainer tube not attached to said probe. 5. A sensor according to claim 4, wherein said probe is a highly polished, precision ground, heat-treated alloy steel pin with a grooved stem at one end. 6. A sensor according to claim 5, wherein said retainer tube is square, thereby ensuring that each one of said probe subassemblies is restricted to axial sliding motion without any rotation, and wherein said retainer tube is crimped downwards into said grooved stem. 7. A sensor according to claim 6, wherein said encoder tube has patterns of slots and holes arranged in columns along the length of said tube cut through said tube. 8. A sensor according to claim 7, wherein said patterns of slots and holes in said encoder tube are arranged in said columns such that there are four of said columns and such that sixteen 4-bit signals are produced as the output of said encoder tube. 9. A sensor according to claim 8, wherein said patterns of slots and holes are arranged such that only one bit in said signals is permitted to change at any given transition point. 10. A sensor according to claim 8, wherein each one of said probe subassemblies further comprise a compression spring disposed about said probe's circumference and along a portion of said probe's length. 11. A sensor according to claim 10, wherein said probe subassemblies are extended pneumatically to contact and grip said objects. 12. A sensor according to claim 11, wherein said bearing plate is made of stainless steel. 13. A sensor according to claim 12, wherein said holes in said bearing plate through which said probe subassemblies pass are counterbored to seat said compression springs and said holes in said bearing plate are precision machined to assure a sufficient clearance between said holes and said probes to provide a sliding fit, yet eliminate any need for seals inside said holes. 14. A sensor according to claim 13, wherein said bearing plate is connected by dowel pins to said finger housing. 15. A sensor according to claim 14, wherein said finger housing is aluminum. 16. A sensor according to claim 15, wherein said sensor array permits said encoder tube to pass through said sensor array. 17. A sensor according to claim 16, wherein said sensor array further comprises inner guide tubes disposed so that each one of said encoder tubes passes outside of the outer radius of one of said inner guide tubes. 18. A sensor according to claim 17, wherein said sensor array further comprises: a. a plate; b. a guide block; and c. a bottom cap. 19. A sensor according to claim 18, wherein said plate is stainless steel. 20. A sensor according to claim 19, wherein said guide block is aluminum. 21. A sensor according to claim 20, wherein said bottom cap is aluminum. 22. A sensor according to claim 21, wherein said photodetection circuit comprises: a. an emitter containing an emitter circuit; b. a transmit fiber transmitting optical signals from said emitter circuit; c. a photodetector containing a detector circuit; and d. a receive fiber receiving optical signals from said transmit fiber and conducting said optical signals to said detector circuit. 23. A sensor according to claim 22, wherein said plate and said guide block each have a set of two corresponding overlapping two-dimensional arrays of holes, one of said arrays to contain said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers and the other of said arrays to contain said receive fibers and wherein said array containing said receive fibers is disposed such that each of said holes in said array containing said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers is surrounded by four adjacent diagonally located holes of said array containing said receive fibers. 24. A sensor according to claim 23, wherein said plate has a two-dimensional array of holes for said emitters corresponding in total number of holes to said two-dimensional array of said probe subassemblies and wherein said plate has four holes for four of said photodetectors. 25. A sensor according to claim 24, wherein said emitter circuit comprises a GAAlAs infrared light emitting diode (IRED) emitting at a peak wavelength of 880 nm. 26. A sensor according to claim 25, wherein said transmit fiber and said receive fiber are composed of a synthetic plastic comprising a high purity polymethyl methacrylate core and special fluorinated polymer cladding, thereby allowing extremely small bend radii. 27. A sensor according to claim 26, wherein said transmit fiber and said receive fiber are 0.250 millimeter in diameter, thereby allowing packaging of said fibers into small volumes. 28. A sensor according to claim 27, wherein said receiving means of said communications hardware circuit comprise optocouplers and said decoding means of said communications hardware circuit comprise decoders. 29. A sensor according to claim 28, wherein said IRED included in said emitter circuit emits infrared light which is transmitted by four of said transmit fibers. 30. A sensor according to claim 29, wherein said four of said transmit fibers pass through one of the holes in said array containing said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers, said four of said transmit fibers being disposed inside one of said inner guide tubes. 31. A sensor according to claim 30, wherein said four of said transmit fibers are so aligned that infrared light passing from their ends other than the ends closest to said IRED is transmitted to four of said receive fibers contained within the four of the holes in said array containing said receive fibers which are adjacent and diagonally located with respect to said one of the holes in said array containing said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers through which said four of said transmit fibers pass. 32. A sensor according to claim 31, wherein each one of said four of said receive fibers conduct infrared light to a different photodetector of said four of said photodetectors from the three photodetectors activated by the other three of said four of said receive fibers. 33. A sensor according to claim 32, wherein said detector circuit includes an operational amplifier of sufficient gain for said detector circuit to successfully detect said infrared light from said receive fiber. 34. A sensor according to claim 33, wherein said communications hardware circuit utilizes said optocouplers and said decoders to receive and decode, respectively, row and column addresses energizing a particular one of said emitters, said emitters being disposed in a two-dimensional array. 35. A sensor according to claim 34, wherein said encoder tube has said four of said columns of said patterns of slots and holes so disposed in said encoder tube as to selectively transmit or block the transmission of infrared light from four of said transmit fibers to four of said receive fibers. 36. A sensor according to claim 35, wherein said transmitting means of said communications hardware circuit comprise optocouplers. 37. A process for constructing a sensor array comprising: a. temporarily fastening a guide block to a plate from below said plate and temporarily fastening said plate to a special assembly fixture from above said plate; b. pressing inner guide tubes into place in a two-dimensional array of holes in said plate and said guide block; c. removing by grinding the flared ends of said inner guide tubes produced by said pressing operation; d. cutting diagonal slits across the top of said guide block, said slits intersecting an array of holes to contain said inner guide tubes a plurality of transmit fibers and an array of holes to contain receive fibers; e. deburring to remove any sharp edges in said slits; f. removing the combination of said plate and said guide block from said special assembly fixture; g. separating said guide block from said plate while not separating said inner guide tubes from said plate; h. milling a top face of said guide block to decrease the depth of said slits; i. enlarging said array of holes in said guide block to contain said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers; j. reattaching said guide block to said plate from below said plate; k. temporarily attaching a first top cap to said plate from above said plate; l. continuously looping a single optical fiber between said array of holes to contain said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers and said array of holes to contain said receive fibers, such that said fiber lies in said slits; m. attaching a second top cap to said guide block and a bottom cap to said plate; n. injecting an adhesive and sealing means through said bottom cap to fill all the cavities in said sensor array; o. detaching said first and second top caps from said plate and said guide block; p. removing by grinding excess adhesive and sealing means from said inner guide tubes and from holes for emitters and photodetectors; q. wet polishing the remains of said excess adhesive and sealing means on said holes for said emitters and said photodetectors; and r. cutting in a circular pattern said adhesive and sealing means and said optical fiber at each of the holes in said array of holes in said guide block and said plate to contain said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers. 38. A process according to claim 37, wherein said pressing operation is accomplished with a special insertion tool. 39. A process according to claim 38, wherein said single optical fiber utilized in said looping operation is comprised of a synthetic plastic comprising a high purity polymethyl methacrylate core and special fluorinated polymer cladding. 40. A process according to claim 39, wherein said injection operation employs a ram system and mixing nozzle. 41. A process according to claim 40, wherein said adhesive and sealing means is a two component sealant, formulated in a black color, and able to cure at room temperature in 24 hours. 42. A process according to claim 41, wherein said adhesive and sealing means is low viscosity and comprises a polysulfide and epoxy mixture. 43. A process according to claim 42, wherein said cutting operation is performed such that said circular pattern produced provides a passage for the movement of said encoder tube. 