An automotive vehicle body and headliner assembly and locating method. The headliner has two locating holes. The body includes a pair of bodyside assemblies each with a door opening having a peripheral flange, a pair of A-pillar assemblies each having a reinforcement with a visor hole, and a roof assembly including a roof outer panel and front and rear roof headers longitudinally spaced along the roof outer panel. The A-pillar assemblies and bodyside assemblies are secured to the roof assembly. Locators are provided on the body for locating the headliner with respect to the body. The locators are located laterally on the body relative to one of the bodyside assemblies. The locators are alignable with the locating holes in the headliner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automotive body and headliner assembly, comprising: a headliner having first and second locating holes therethrough; and a vehicle body including a roof assembly having a roof outer panel and front and rear roof headers spaced longitudinally along the outer panel, a pair of bodyside assemblies each having a door opening with a peripheral flange, a pair of A-pillar assemblies, said A-pillar assemblies and bodyside assemblies being secured to said roof assembly, and said roof assembly defining the top of a windshield opening; and locating means comprising a 2-way locator and a 4-way locator provided on the body for locating the headliner with respect to the body, said locating means being alignable with the locating holes in the headliner. 2. An automotive body and headliner assembly according to claim 1, wherein the A-pillar assemblies include a reinforcement for mounting a visor and the locating means comprises said body having third and fourth locating holes therein, the third and fourth holes being spaced from said reinforcements. 3. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 2, wherein the first hole is a four-way locator alignable with the third hole, the second hole is a two-way locator alignable with the fourth hole. 4. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 3, wherein the first hole comprises an aperture in the headliner sized to locate the headliner in two axes using a first trim attachment. 5. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 4, wherein the second hole comprises a slot in the headliner sized to locate the headliner in one axis using a second trim attachment. 6. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 5, wherein the first trim attachment comprises a visor bracket and the second trim attachment comprises a push pin. 7. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 2, wherein the third hole is provided in the front roof header and the fourth hole is provided in the rear roof header. 8. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 7, further comprising the front and rear roof headers each having a pair of header locating holes, said header locating holes being spaced from the third and fourth locating holes, each header being located in a fixture during assembly of the body, the fixture locating each of the headers, respectively, relative to the one of said bodyside door openings using the header locating holes. 9. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 2, wherein the third and fourth holes are provided in one of said bodyside assemblies. 10. The body and headliner assembly according to claim 2, wherein the body further comprises: a first and second roof bow, each roof bow having a pair of roof bow locating holes formed therein for locating each of the roof bows, respectively, relative to the bodyside door opening using the bow locating holes prior to securing the bows to the body. 11. An automotive body and headliner assembly, comprising: a headliner having a first locating hole with a generally round shape acting as a 4-way locator and a second locating hole with a oblong shape having parallel sides acting as a 2-way locator, said second hole being spaced from said first hole; a vehicle body including a roof assembly having a roof outer panel and front and rear roof headers spaced longitudinally along the outer panel, a pair of bodyside assemblies each having a door opening with a peripheral flange, a pair of A-pillar assemblies, said A-pillar assemblies and bodyside assemblies being secured to said roof assembly, and said roof assembly defining the top of a windshield opening, wherein one of said bodyside assemblies has a locating surface provided on the peripheral flange of the body opening and said front and rear roof headers are located laterally relative thereto and each of said front and rear headers has a locating hole provided therein in registration with the headliner locating holes for locating the headliner to the body. 