The present invention concerns an apparatus for automatic processing at least one biological sample accommodated on a carrier member, such as a slide by applying a predetermined amount of reagents in a predetermined sequence according to a processing protocol, said apparatus comprising; a housing frame; at least one processing section for accommodating at least one slide, the at least one processing section is provided within the housing; a hood cover protecting the at least one processing section in said housing; wherein the hood cover completely encloses the processing section defining an interior space; and wherein the apparatus further comprises climate control device provided to control the environment within the interior space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automatic processing of at least one biological sample accommodated on at least one slide, comprising: a housing frame; at least one slide; a plurality of drawers within the housing, each drawer comprising a respective carrier rack for supporting the at least one slide; a robotic reagent dispensing head within the housing that performs ongoing robotic processing, including dispensing of reagents, at least one sample processing section within the housing for accommodating at least one of the plurality of drawers; a cover for protecting said at least one sample processing section in said housing, said cover enclosing the sample processing section and defining an interior space between the housing and the cover; at least one climate control device for controlling the environment within said interior space defined by the cover; a sensor device for providing feedback signals to the climate control device; and a data processing device configured to control the at least one climate control device, wherein the data processing device comprises a processing protocol including instructions to apply a predetermined amount of reagents to in a predetermined sequence on the at least one slide, wherein a first drawer is configured to permit a first sample accommodated in the first drawer, for which the processing is completed, to be removed from the apparatus without opening the cover or interrupting the ongoing robotic processing of a second sample in a second drawer, and wherein the second drawer is configured to permit the second sample accommodated in the second drawer, to be inserted into the apparatus without opening the cover or interrupting the dispensing of reagents onto the first sample, in the first drawer, with the robotic reagent dispensing head. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the sensor device is adapted to sense at least one climate parameter from the group consisting of temperature, pressure, humidity, airspeed and the presence of toxic elements in fume. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the sensor device comprises internal sensors located inside the interior space. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an air inlet/outlet manifold, wherein the sensor device comprises external sensors located at or inside the air inlet/outlet manifold, in a laboratory facility accommodating the apparatus, or outside a building accommodating the laboratory. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cover comprises at least one openable hood pivotably attached to the housing frame. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cover is integral with the housing frame. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cover comprises a plurality of covers arranged to cover a plurality of sections of the apparatus, wherein the plurality of sections includes the at least one sample processing section. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein a plurality of interior spaces of the apparatus is defined by said plurality of covers, each interior space being defined as the volume located between the cover and the housing and each interior space including at least one section comprising at least one sample on the at least one slide and/or at least one section comprising at least one reagent in a container. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the at least one climate control device controls the climate of the at least one biological sample on the at least one slide in each interior space according to the processing protocol defined for that particular sample. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the sensor device comprises internal sensors and external sensors, and wherein the at least one climate control device receives input signals from the internal and/or external sensors and controls the climate in each interior space according to the input signals. 11. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the data processing device data processing device comprises a computer. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one climate control device includes pressure control device for controlling at least the pressure and configured to provide a slight sub-pressure within the interior space. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one climate control device includes a pressure control device for controlling at least the pressure and configured to provide a slightly higher pressure within the interior space. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one climate control device includes a humidity controller within the interior space. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one climate control device includes a temperature control device for controlling the ambient temperature of the air within the interior space. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the climate control device comprises a ventilation system with an exhaustion device having a plurality of ducts for exchanging the air in the interior space with a manifold in the housing frame. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the ventilation system comprises a centrifugal blower in an air inlet opening in the manifold of the housing frame through which air may be exchanged. 18. An apparatus according to claim 17, further comprising at least one air manipulation device with the air inlet opening for adapting the air temperature, pressure, air flow rate, and humidity of the inflowing air into the apparatus. 19. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the climate control device comprises an exhaustion device with an outlet for removing fumes from the interior space. 20. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the climate control device is a device for recycling air for humidity, temperature, and toxic control, a device for removing toxic elements from the air to be recycled, a device for supplying humidity to the air to be recycled, or a heater/cooling device for controlling the temperature of the air to be recycled. 21. An apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the device configured to recycle air comprises a filter capable of cleaning and/or humidifying the air. 22. An apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the outlet is positioned below a level in which the at least one slide is accommodated and said exhaustion device is adapted to draw air through the outlet. 23. An apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the outlet is positioned above a level in which the at least one slide is accommodated and said exhaustion device is adapted to draw air through the outlet. 24. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said cover is provided with at least one seal element to provide an air tight seal between the cover means and the housing. 25. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the housing frame comprises at least one air inlet opening adapted to supply air into the interior space, and wherein the climate control device comprises an air manipulation device configured to adapt the inflowing air with predetermined characteristics, the air manipulation device being provided in the at least one air inlet opening. 26. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said air manipulation device comprises a humid filter device adapted to draw inflowing air through the humid filter device and provide high and uniform humidity in the chamber. 27. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the air manipulation device sprays water droplets or has a water surface and thereby controls humidity. 28. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the air manipulation device comprises an air recycling device with filters, the recycled air being drawn through the filters to remove fumes and adjust the humidity. 29. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the air manipulation device controls the humidity to never be below a predetermined level, to prevent drying out of the sample. 30. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the air manipulation device comprises an air additive supply device in the at least one air inlet opening, the air additive supply device adding disinfectants, UV protectants or other compounds to the inlet air to prevent microbial growth or discolouring. 31. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the air manipulation device comprises an air additive supply device in the at least one air inlet opening, the air additive supply device adding fluids from the group consisting of reagents, neutral gas, oxygen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, water droplets, and formamide. 32. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the sensor device registers one or more parameters of the air in interior space of the apparatus, said sensor device being arranged in a vicinity of the cover and/or in a vicinity of the at least one slide on the carrier rack. 33. An apparatus for automatic staining of at least one biological sample accommodated on at least one slide, comprising: a housing frame; at least one slide; a plurality of drawers within the housing, each drawer comprising a respective carrier rack for supporting the at least one slide; a robotic reagent dispensing head within the housing that performs ongoing robotic processing, including dispensing of reagents, at least one staining section within the housing configured to accommodate at least one of the plurality of drawers; a cover for protecting said at least one staining section in said housing, said cover enclosing the staining section and defining an interior space between the housing and the cover; at least one climate control device configured to control the environment within said interior space defined by the cover; a sensor device providing feedback signals to the climate control device; and a data processing device configured to control the at least one climate control device, wherein the data processing device comprises a processing protocol including instructions to apply a predetermined amount of reagents to in a predetermined sequence on the at least one slide, wherein a first drawer is configured to permit a first sample accommodated in the first drawer, for which the processing is completed, to be removed from the apparatus without opening the cover or interrupting the ongoing robotic processing of a second sample in a second drawer, and wherein the second drawer is configured to permit the second sample accommodated in the second drawer, to be inserted into the apparatus without opening the cover or interrupting the dispensing of reagents onto the first sample, in the first drawer, with the robotic reagent dispensing head. 34. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the sensor device is adapted to sense at least one climate parameter from the group consisting of temperature, pressure, humidity, airspeed and the presence of toxic elements in fume. 35. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the sensor device comprises internal sensors located inside the interior space. 36. An apparatus according to claim 33 further comprising an air inlet/outlet manifold, wherein the sensor device comprises external sensors located at or inside the air inlet/outlet manifold, in a laboratory facility, accommodating the apparatus, or outside a building accommodating the laboratory. 37. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the cover comprises at least one openable hood pivotably attached to the housing frame. 38. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the cover is integral with the housing frame. 39. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the cover comprises a plurality of covers arranged to cover a plurality of sections of the apparatus, wherein the plurality of sections includes the at least one staining section. 40. An apparatus according to claim 39, wherein a plurality of interior spaces of the apparatus is defined by said plurality of covers, each interior space being defined as the volume located between the cover and the housing, and each interior space including at least one section comprising at least one sample on the at least one slide and/or at least one section comprising at least one reagent in a container. 41. An apparatus according to claim 40, wherein the at least one climate control device controls the climate of the at least one biological sample on the at least one slide in each interior space according to the processing protocol defined for that particular sample. 42. An apparatus according to claim 41, wherein the sensor device comprises internal sensors and external sensors, and wherein the at least one climate control device receives input signals from the internal and/or external sensors and controls the climate in each interior space according to the input signals. 43. An apparatus according to claim 40, wherein the data processing device data processing device comprises a computer. 44. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the at least one climate control device includes a pressure control device for controlling at least the pressure and configured to provide a slight sub-pressure within the interior space. 45. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the at least one climate control device includes a pressure control device for controlling at least the pressure and configured to provide a slightly higher pressure within the interior space. 46. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the at least one climate control device includes a humidity controller within the interior space. 47. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the at least one climate control, device includes a temperature control device for controlling the ambient, temperature of the air within the interior space. 48. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the climate control device comprises a ventilation system with an exhaustion device having a plurality of ducts for exchanging the air in the interior space with a manifold in the housing frame. 49. An apparatus according to claim 48, wherein the ventilation system comprises a centrifugal blower in an air inlet opening in the manifold of the housing frame through which air may be exchanged. 50. An apparatus according to claim 49, further comprising at least one air manipulation device with the air inlet opening for adapting the air temperature, pressure, air flow rate, and humidity of the inflowing air into the apparatus. 51. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the climate control device comprises an exhaustion device with an outlet capable, of removing fumes from the interior space. 52. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the climate control device is a device capable of recycling air for humidity, temperature; and toxic control, a device capable of removing toxic elements from the air to be recycled, a device capable of supplying humidity to the air to be recycled, or a heater/cooling device capable of controlling the temperature of the air to be recycled. 53. An apparatus according to claim 52, wherein the device configured to recycle air comprises a filter capable of cleaning and/or humidifying the air. 54. An apparatus according to claim 51, wherein the outlet is positioned below a level in which the at least one slide is accommodated and said exhaustion device is adapted to draw air through the outlet. 55. An apparatus according to claim 51, wherein the outlet is positioned above a level in which the at least one slide is accommodated and said exhaustion device is adapted to draw air through the outlet. 56. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein said cover is provided with at least one seal element to provide an air tight seal between the cover means and the housing. 57. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the housing frame comprises at least one air inlet opening adapted to supply air into the interior space, and wherein the climate control device comprises an air manipulation device configured to adapt the inflowing air with predetermined characteristics, the air manipulation device being provided in the at least one air inlet opening. 58. An apparatus according to claim 57, wherein said air manipulation device comprises a humid filter device adapted to draw inflowing air through the humid filter device and provide high and uniform humidity in the chamber. 59. An apparatus according to claim 57, wherein the air manipulation device sprays water droplets or has a water surface and thereby controls humidity. 60. An apparatus according to claim 57, wherein the air manipulation device comprises an air recycling device with filters, the recycled air being drawn through the filters to remove fumes and adjust the humidity. 61. An apparatus according to claim 57, wherein the air manipulation device controls the humidity to never be below a predetermined level, to prevent drying out of the sample. 62. An apparatus according to claim 57, wherein the air manipulation device comprises an air additive supply device in the at least one air inlet opening, the air additive supply device adding disinfectants, UV protectants or other compounds to the inlet air to prevent microbial growth or discolouring. 63. An apparatus according to claim 57, wherein the air manipulation device comprises an air additive supply device in the at least one air inlet opening, the air additive supply device adding fluids from the group consisting of reagents, neutral gas, oxygen, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, water droplets, and formamide. 64. An apparatus according to claim 33, wherein the sensor device registers one or more parameters of the air in interior space of the apparatus, said sensor device being arranged in a vicinity of the cover and/or in a vicinity of the at least one slide on the carrier rack. 