An optical surface scanner for semiconductor wafers and like substrates having one channel with a detector receiving collected scattered light and another channel with a detector receiving reflected light. The scattered light signal is indicative of surface haze, particle count and size, while the reflected light signals are indicative of film thickness and/or surface properties as in the case of an opaque or absorbing layer. The latter signal may be used to correct the particle count and size determination and may also be used simultaneously for thin film measurement. The reflectivity or thin film measurement signals may be used to characterize a film layer controller to improve the accuracy of the deposited thickness of the layer.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for surface inspection comprising, a focused scanning beam illuminating a spot on a specularly reflective wafer having a film layer and light scattering elements thereon, means for providing relative motion between the beam and the wafer, a first detector positioned to intercept scattered light from said light scattering elements and producing an electrical signal representing scattering, a second detector positioned to intercept specularly reflected light from said film layer and producing an electrical signal representing reflectivity of the film layer in response to said specularly reflected light, means for logging the position of the beam on the wafer during scanning, means for determining, at said spot, the thickness of said film, using detected reflected light, and the presence of scattering elements, using detected scattered light, said determining means including means for producing a first electrical signal from light received by the first detector, and means for producing a second electrical signal from light received by the second detector, means for mapping the signals representing light scattering and reflectivity as a function of the position of the beam, and means for adjusting scattered light information carried by the first electrical signal using the second electrical signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said spot is scanned over the entire surface of the wafer. 3. Optical apparatus for inspection of reflective articles comprising, means for directing a focused scanning beam onto a reflective surface having a film coating thereon, the beam impinging on the surface at a spot, means for directing light reflected from said spot to a first detector, means for directing light scattered from said spot to a second detector, means for simultaneously determining, at said spot, the thickness of said film, using detected reflected light, and the presence of scattering elements, using detected scattered light, said determining means including means for producing a first electrical signal from light received by the first detector, representing reflected light, and means for producing a second electrical signal from light received by the second detector, representing scattered light information, and means for adjusting scattered light information carried by the second electrical signal using the first electrical signal. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for directing a scanning beam onto a reflective surface comprises beam polarizing means for producing S, P and circular beam polarizations. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for directing a scanning beam onto a reflective surface comprises a telecentric optical member. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for collecting light scattered from said surface comprises a Fresnel lens and a reflective focussing optical member. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for collecting light scattered from said surface comprises a reflective focussing optical member and a longitudinal slit in a light randomizer interposed between the reflective member and a light sensitive input area of the second detector. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said light randomizer comprises a tube having opposed ends with said longitudinal slit at one end and an opposite end matching in area the input area of the second detector. 9. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for directing light reflected from said surface to a first detector is at an angle greater than thirty degrees to said means for collecting light scattered from said surface to a second detector. 10. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein a reflective article to be inspected is mounted on a robotic arm for motion in at least one direction. 11. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said means for directing a scanning beam onto said reflective surface to be inspected comprises first and second lasers having different wavelengths. 12. A method of inspecting substrates having thin film coatings comprising, directing a focused beam of light toward a substrate having a film coating, the beam impinging on the substrate at a spot, measuring light scattered from said substrate, at said spot, with a first detector, measuring light reflected from said substrate, at said spot, with a second detector, determining, at said spot, the thickness of said film coating, using the measured reflected light, and the presence of scattering elements, using the measured scattered light, producing a first electrical signal from light received by the first detector, producing a second electrical signal from light received by the second detector, adjusting scattered light information carried by the first electrical signal using the second electrical signal, and determining the uniformity of said film coating using the measured reflected light from a plurality of spots. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the determining of uniformity of said film coating comprises using the measured reflected light in comparison with previously measured values. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the determining of uniformity of said film coating comprises determining the thickness of said film coating where said coating is transparent. 15. The method of claim 12 further defined by correcting the measurement of said light scattered from the substrate based upon the measurement of reflected light. 16. The method of claim 12 further defined by making said scattered and reflected light measurement at the same location. 17. The method of claim 16 further defined by repeatedly making said measurements at a plurality of locations on a wafer. 18. The method of claim 12 further defined by visually displaying scattered light and film thickness measurements on a map of said substrate. 19. The method of claim 12 further defined wherein said beam of light has a single wavelength. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein said beam of light has more than one wavelength. 21. The method of claim 12 further defined by displaying a map of film topography based on said uniformity determination. 22. The method of claim 21 further defined by displaying a map of light scattering elements on the substrate. 23. The method of claim 12 further defined by displaying a single map of film topography based on said uniformity determination and light scattering elements on the substrate. 24. The method of claim 12 further defined by subsequently adjusting a film deposition process based upon said determinations. 