Apparatus for providing self-regulated gas flow between a wafer and a wafer support surface of a wafer support in a semiconductor wafer processing system. The apparatus consists of a gas inlet port extending through the wafer support for supplying gas to the wafer support surface and a plurality of exhaust ports, extending from the support surface through the wafer support, for exhausting the gas from the support surface, where the plurality of exhaust ports maintain a uniform backside gas pressure between the wafer and the wafer support surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for controlling backside gas pressure for a gas flowing between a wafer and a wafer support surface of a wafer support in a semiconductor wafer processing chamber comprising: a gas inlet port extending through the wafer support for supplying gas to the wafer support surface; and a plurality of exhaust ports, extending from the support surface through the wafer support, for exhausting the gas from the support surface into the chamber where the plurality of exhaust ports maintain a uniform backside gas pressure between the wafer and the wafer support surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of exhaust ports extend from the support surface to a sidewall of the wafer support and are uniformly distributed proximate the periphery of the wafer support surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said wafer support further comprises a pedestal and an electrostatic chuck, where the electrostatic chuck contains said wafer support surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the electrostatic chuck is bipolar. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the support surface of the wafer support comprises a plurality of gas distribution grooves. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the grooves are "T" shaped. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein branches of each "T" shaped groove extend approximately one fourth of a circumference of the wafer support. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the plurality of grooves is four. 9. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein there are fours grooves that are "T" shaped and branches of each "T" shaped groove extend approximately one fourth of a circumference of the wafer support, where an end of each branch contains an exhaust port. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the diameter of each of the plurality of exhaust ports is about 1.6 mm. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the number of exhaust ports is eight. 12. Apparatus for providing self-regulated gas flow between a wafer and a wafer support surface of a wafer support in a semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: a pedestal with a top surface and a sidewall; an electrostatic chuck adhered to the top surface of the pedestal, the electrostatic chuck having grooves in a wafer support surface; a gas inlet port extending through the pedestal and electrostatic chuck for supplying gas to the grooves; and a plurality of exhaust ports connecting a groove to the sidewall by extending through the pedestal for directing the flow of gas away from the wafer support surface. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the plurality of exhaust ports are uniformly distributed proximate the periphery of the wafer support surface. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein there are fours grooves that are "T" shaped and branches of each "T" shaped groove extend approximately one fourth of a circumference of the wafer support, where an end of each branch contains an exhaust port. 