In a robotic arrangement an elongate telescope(10) is provided adapted to be inserted into a patient(6). A drive arm(8) is connected to the telescope and means(7) are provided to rotate the drive arm about a substantially vertical axis. Drive means are provided associated with the drive arm(8) to adjust the angle of inclination of the cannula. This may comprise means to adjust the angle of inclination of the drive arm(8) itself.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A goniometric robotic arrangement, the arrangement comprising: an elongate telescope adapted to be inserted into the abdomen of a patient, a drive arm, the drive arm having a first part connected to means adapted to rotate the drive arm about a substantially vertical axis, the drive arm having a second part, spaced apart from the first part, which is rotated about said axis at a distance from the axis, connecting means comprising a loose articulation connecting said second part of the drive arm to the telescope, and drive means associated with the drive arm to adjust the angle of inclination of the drive arm and thus to adjust the angle of inclination of the telescope. 2. An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein the drive arm has an initial inclined position. 3. An arrangement according to claim 2 wherein the means adapted to adjust the angle of inclination of the drive arm comprise a crown wheel-and-pinion device. 4. An arrangement according to claim 3 wherein the crown wheel-and-pinion device is driven by a low torque motor. 5. An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein a carriage is provided which is movable along the drive arm, the carriage comprising said connecting means and being connected to the telescope, said drive means being adapted to move the carriage along the drive arm to effect the adjustment of the angle of inclination of the drive arm and thus to adjust the angle of inclination of the telescope. 6. An arrangement according to claim 5, wherein said means adapted to rotate the drive arm are supported by a horizontal support arm. 7. An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein the means adapted to rotate the drive arm are supported by support means, further drive means being provided to drive the support means in a vertical direction. 8. An arrangement according to claim 7 wherein the means adapted to drive the support means vertically comprise a hydraulic mechanism. 9. An arrangement according to claim 7 wherein the means adapted to drive the support means vertically comprise a recirculating ball drive. 10. A mechanism according to claim 9 wherein the recirculating ball drive is driven by a low torque motor. 11. An arrangement according to claim 7 wherein the support means comprises a substantially horizontally extending support beam, supported by an elongate substantially vertical support member, the said drive means being adapted to drive the support member. 12. An arrangement according to claim 11 wherein the support member is received within a housing, the housing being mounted on casters or the like. 13. An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein the means adapted to rotate the drive arm comprise a motor contained within a motor housing, a substantially vertical drive shaft driven by the motor being connected to one end of the drive arm. 14. An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein the telescope is associated with a camera provided at the upper end of the telescope. 15. An arrangement according to claim 14 wherein the lower end of the telescope is optically cranked. 16. An arrangement according to claim 15 wherein means are provided to rotate at least the lower end of the telescope relative to the axis of the telescope. 17. An arrangement according to claim 1 wherein the arrangement is provided with two light sources generating intersecting beams of light, the arrangement being such that the intersecting beams of light are adjusted to intersect at a position a predetermined distance beneath the upper end of the drive arm. 18. A goniometric robotic arrangement, the arrangement comprising: an elongated telescope adapted to be inserted into the abdomen of a patient; a drive arm connected to means adapted to rotate the drive arm about a substantially vertical axis; connecting means connecting the drive arm to the telescope; drive means associated with the drive arm to adjust the angle of inclination of the telescope; and a carriage moveable along the drive arm, the carriage comprising said connecting means and being connected to the telescope, said drive means being adapted to move the carriage along the drive arm to effect the adjustment of the angle of inclination of the drive arm and thus to adjust the angle of inclination of the telescope. 19. A goniometric robotic arrangement, the arrangement comprising: an elongated telescope adapted to be inserted into the abdomen of a patient; a drive arm connected to means adapted to rotate the drive arm about a substantially vertical axis; connecting means connecting the drive arm to the telescope; drive means associated with the drive arm to adjust the angle of inclination of the telescope; and two light sources generating intersecting beams of light, the arrangement being such that the intersecting beams of light are adjusted to intersect at a position a predetermined distance beneath the upper end of the drive arm. 