A method and apparatus for processing and assembling a plurality of small parts weighing under five pounds using a robot employing a rotatable pallet for holding an array of small parts. Said rotatable pallet being held in place on the robot wrist head, which moves the pallet through a plurality of stationary work-stations located within the operating envelope of the robot, and rotates the pallet at each work-station to index the pallet and to present it to the work-station for an operation on a specific part or parts. Said robot participates in the work-station tasks by moving the rotatable pallet in the X, Y, and Z directions as needed. Movable data pins are used to indicate conditions of individual parts in nests, and of the pallet taken as a whole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rotatable pallet for retaining a plurality of work-pieces and to be used in conjunction with an automated robot assembly apparatus, the rotatable pallet comprising: a. a disk having an upper surface, a lower surface and a plurality of nests located on the upper surface for retaining said plurality of work-pieces; b. a hole in said disk for insertion of a dowel pin affixed to an end effector on said robot; and c. a plurality of spiral expanding pins carried on said disk and located adjacent to said plurality of nests respectively for indicating conditions of said plurality of nests, such that when each end of the plurality of spiral expanding pins is flush with said upper surface of said disk, this indicates an acceptable work piece and when each of the other end of the plurality of spiral expanding pins is flush with said lower surface of said disk, this indicates a defective work piece. 2. The rotatable pallet accordance with claim 1 wherein said disk is generally a circular shape. 3. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 1 wherein said disk is generally a non-circular shape. 4. A rotatable pallet for retaining at least one work-piece and to be used in conjunction with an automated robot assembly apparatus, the rotatable pallet comprising: a. a disk having an upper surface, a lower surface and at least one nest for retaining said at least one work-piece; b. a hole in said rotatable pallet for insertion of a pin affixed to an end effector on said robot; and c. at least one movable pin carried on said disk and located adjacent to said at least one nest for indicating a condition of said at least one nest. 5. The rotatable pallet accordance with claim 4 wherein said disk is generally a circular shape. 6. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 4 wherein said disk is generally a non-circular shape. 7. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 4 wherein said at least one movable pin is movable in a down direction such that when one end of said movable pin is flush with said upper surface of said disk, this indicates an acceptable work piece and when the other end of the movable pin is moved upwardly and is flush with said lower surface of said disk, this indicates a defective work piece. 8. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 4 wherein said at least one movable pin is movable in a down direction such that when one end of said movable pin is flush with said upper surface of said disk, this indicates a defective work piece and when the other end of the movable pin is moved upwardly and is flush with said lower surface of said disk, this indicates an acceptable work piece. 9. A rotatable pallet for retaining at least one work-piece, the rotatable pallet comprising: a. a disk having at least one nest for retaining said at least one work-piece; and b. at least one pin movably carried on said disk and located adjacent to said at least one nest for identifying a condition of said at least one nest. 10. The rotatable pallet accordance with claim 9 wherein said disk is generally a circular shape. 11. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 9 wherein said disk is generally a non-circular shape. 12. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 9 wherein said at least one pin is moved in a down direction to indicate an acceptable work piece and when said at least one pin is moved an upward direction, this indicates a defective work piece. 13. The rotatable pallet in accordance with claim 9 wherein said at least one pin is moved in a down direction to indicate a defective work piece and when said at least one pin is moved in a up direction, this indicates an acceptable work piece. 