The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assisting a surgeon in positioning a surgical instrument relative to a target position, the system comprising: means for manipulating the position of a surgical instrument; means for sensing the position of the surgical instrument; means for determining a path from a sensed position of the surgical instrument to the target position, wherein the means for determining a path includes means for sensing the position of the target position; means for audibly signaling deviation of the position of the surgical instrument from the path. 2. A system as in claim 1 further comprising means for visually signaling deviation of the position of the surgical instrument from the path. 3. A system as in claim 1 wherein the means for sensing includes a light beacon. 4. A system as in claim 1 wherein the means for audibly signaling includes means for automatically signaling different audio signals based upon different sensed positions of the surgical instrument relative to the path. 5. A method of assisting a surgeon in positioning a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body during surgery comprising steps of: connecting beacons to the patient; providing a passive manipulator for moving the surgical instrument; connecting the surgical instrument to the manipulator; connecting beacons to the manipulator; determining the positions of the beacons on the patient relative to a portion of the patient's body; sensing movement of the beacons on the manipulator relative to the beacons on the patient and thus, sensing the movement of the manipulator relative to the portion of the patient's body; and indicating to the surgeon position of the surgical instrument. 