A robot with a base, a first link connected to the base by a shoulder joint, and a second link connected to the first link by an elbow joint. A shoulder motor drives the shoulder joint, and an elbow motor drives the elbow joint. An upper elbow pulley is coupled to the first link. An end effector pulley coupled to the upper elbow pulley, and a dual-bladed end effector driven by the end effector pulley. The diameter of the upper elbow pulley and the diameter of the end effector pulley are related by a 1:2 ratio. Ferro-fluid seals are used to seal each joint. A static seal joins the seams of the links. Each arm link has a particle filter. The robot can communicate electrical signals through the revolute joints with a conductive slip-ring assembly. Alternately, the joint may have an inner cylinder and an outer cylinder, and a cable may be coiled between the cylinders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a base; a rotatable first link connected to the base by a shoulder joint; a rotatable second link connected to the first link by an elbow joint; an end-effector connected to the second link by a wrist joint; a shoulder motor located in the base to rotate the first link about the shoulder joint; a shoulder drive shaft extending from the shoulder motor and non-rotatably secured to the first link; an elbow motor located in the base to rotate the second link about the elbow joint; a first pulley positioned in the elbow joint and non-rotatably secured to the first link; and a second pulley positioned in the wrist joint, the second pulley secured to the end effector and coupled to the first pulley by a first drive band, wherein a diameter of the first pulley and a diameter of the second pulley are related by a 1:2 ratio so that the end effector is constrained to maintain a radial alignment with respect to the shoulder joint; a third pulley positioned in the shoulder joint; an elbow drive shaft extending from the elbow motor and secured to the third pulley; and a fourth pulley positioned in the elbow joint and secured to the second link, the fourth pulley directly coupled to the third pulley by a second drive band and driven thereby. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the third and fourth pulleys have equal diameters. 3. The robot of claim 2, wherein each joint is sealed by a fluid seal. 4. The robot of claim 3, wherein each fluid seal is a ferro-fluid seal. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the elbow motor and shoulder motor are concentrically mounted in a base housing. 6. The robot of claim 5, further comprising a slip-ring assembly for communicating signals from within the housing to the first link. 7. The robot of claim 6, wherein the slip-ring assembly comprises a static member affixed to the housing and a moving member affixed to the first link, whereby the first link may rotate about the housing. 