The present invention relates to a computer aided design and manufacturing system. The system comprises a platform suspended by means of three pairs of supportive legs which are coupled at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three universal joints, each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair. The two legs of each pair extend from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in an overhead mounting where each leg is drivingly engaged by a respective gimbal-mounted electric motor arranged to move the leg in its own longitudinal direction. The platform position and orientation can be controlled by appropriate operation of the six leg drive motors. A rotary indexing stage is mounted on the platform for rotation in the plane of the platform under control of a further electric motor and serves as a mounting for a stage providing for pivotal movement in a plane perpendicular to the plane of rotation of the indexing stage, such pivotal movement being effected under the control of yet a further electric motor. Mounted on the pivotal stage is a rotary tool holder arranged to be driven by yet another electric motor. The various electric motors are precisely positionable under computer control for effecting automatic manufacture of an object by cutting the object out of a block of material by means of a tool held in the tool holder.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical movement system for locating an effector relative to an object, said system comprising: a mounting; a base for further movement, said base being mounted for movement in translation and rotation relative to said mounting by means of a plurality of legs extending between the mounting and the base, means to adjustably control the length of the legs wherein the effective length of said legs is controllably adjustable for determining the orientation of the base relative to the mounting and the connection of the legs to the mounting and to the base being such as to accommodate changes in the angular orientation of the legs consequential to adjustment of their effective length; and means coupled to said base and providing for movement of an object mounted on said base additional to the base movement arising out of movements of the legs; said additional movement providing means comprises first controllably adjustable means providing for a first degree of movement relative to the base, and second controllably adjustable means mounted on said first controllably adjustable means and providing for a different degree of movement relative to said base to that provided by the first controllably adjustable means. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base for further movement comprises a platform having three pairs of supportive legs coupled thereto at triangularly spaced-apart locations by means of three universal joints each of which couples to one end of each of the two legs of a respective pair, and the two legs of each pair extend from their respective universal joint in divergent directions to spaced-apart locations in said mounting whereat each leg is drivingly engaged by controllable leg drive means for moving the leg in its own longitudinal direction, the leg drive means associated with each leg being mounted so as to be capable of accommodating angular movement of its respective leg. 3. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the triangularly spaced-apart locations whereat the three pairs of supportive legs couple to the platform are equilaterally spaced apart, and the locations in the mounting whereat the legs are drivingly engaged by the leg drive means are arranged in a hexagon wherein the spacing between the respective locations for the two legs of each pair of legs are uniform as between the three pairs of legs, and the spacings between the adjacent legs of different pairs of legs are uniform. 4. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the leg drive means comprise electric motors drivingly engaged with screw threads provided on the legs. 5. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the leg drive means are mounted in the mounting by universal joint means. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said universal joint mounting the leg drive means comprise gimbal means. 7. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein said universal joint means mounting the leg drive means comprise ball and socket means. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said ball and socket means mounting the leg drive means comprises a spherical ball within which is housed the leg drive means, an annular collar having an internal part-spherical surface for capturing said spherical ball, and means providing interaction between the ball and the annular collar for permitting rotational movement of the ball in the socket in all directions except about the longitudinal axis of the respective driven leg. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8 wherein at least one longitudinal groove is provided in the external surface of the spherical ball and a groove-follower is mounted in the annular collar for rotation about an axis radial to the internal part-spherical surface of the collar, the groove follower engaging in the groove so as to permit movement of the spherical ball in the annular socket in a sense such as relatively to translate the groove-follower in the groove and inhibit movement transverse to such permitted movement. 10. A system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the groove follower comprises a slider defined by a projection from a surface of a first member and an opposite surface of said first member is received within an accommodating recess in a second member mounted in said annular collar so as to define the axis of rotation of the first member, the internal surface of said recess mating with the respective surface of the first member and each surface comprising a plurality of equal-radius, axially displaced spherical portions enabling self-centering of the first member with respect to the second whilst permitting the requisite rotation of the first member. 11. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the universal joints coupled the ends of respective pairs of the legs to the platform comprise ball and socket means. 12. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the ball and socket means include magnetic means arranged to hold the ball in the socket by magnetic attraction. 13. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the ends of the legs are coupled to or together define the ball of the ball and socket means and the ends of the legs are arranged to pivot with respect to each other in a common plane, and reception of the ball in the socket provides for omnidirectional rotation of said plane. 14. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first controllably adjustable means is arranged to provide controlled rotational adjustment in a plane parallel to a plane defined by the platform. 15. A system as claimed in claim 14 wherein said first controllably adjustable means comprises a motor driven member rotatably mounted with respect to the platform. 16. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein indexing means are provided associated with said motor driven member and with the platform whereby the motor driven member may be accurately positioned at any one of a plurality of predetermined positions relative to the platform. 17. A system as claimed in claim 16 wherein one of said platform and said motor driven member is provided with a plurality of circumferentially spaced-apart elements defining predetermined positions between adjacent ones thereof, and the other of said platform and said motor driven member is provided with at least one locating member adapted to locate between adjacent ones of said elements to predetermine the relative positions of the platform and the motor driven member. 18. A system as claimed in claim 17 wherein camming means are provided for drivingly engaging the said at least one locating member and the respective elements for precisely predetermining the relative position of the platform and the motor driven member following coarse positioning of the same by means of the motor drive provided to the motor driven member. 19. A system as claimed in claim 17 wherein three said locating members are provided angularly spaced apart by 120 degrees. 20. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the motor driven member and the platform, or elements affixed thereto, comprise a plurality of radially spaced-apart annular grooves with a first set of grooves on one of the two members being complementarily shaped with respect to and engaging in a second set of grooves on the other of the two members. 21. A system as claimed in claim 20 wherein complementarily shaped surfaces of the two sets of grooves are spherical whereby the arrangement simulates a part spherical ball fitting into a part spherical socket, the grooves thereby serving to self-center the relatively rotating parts. 22. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said motor driven member is arranged to be rotatable to continuously variable positions, at least one electric motor driving the driven member via a gearing arrangement providing constant loading of the driven member, and an interface between the rotatably mounted driven member and the platform comprising bearing surfaces each formed with a plurality of radially spaced apart annular grooves and with the two sets of grooves being shaped complementarily and interengaging with each other. 23. A system as claimed in claim 20 wherein a hydrodynamic lubricant is provided between the two sets of grooves. 24. A system as claimed in claim 14 wherein said second controllably adjustable means is arranged to provide controlled rotational adjustment in a plane generally transverse to the plane defined by the platform. 25. A system as claimed in claim 24 wherein said second controllably adjustable means comprises a motor driven pivotal arrangement. 26. A system as claimed in claim 25 wherein said motor driven pivotal arrangement comprises a motor driven push-rod arrangement pivotally mounted with respect to the first controllably adjustable means, and a head member pivotally mounted with respect to said first controllably adjustable means and arranged to be controlled as regards its pivotal position by being coupled to the push-rods, said head member pivotable about a pivot axis. 27. A system as claimed in claim 26 wherein said pivotally mounted head comprises a motor adapted to provide rotational movement about an axis transverse to the pivot axis. 28. A system as claimed in claim 27 wherein said pivotally mounted head comprises a tool-holder arranged to be rotated by said motor. 29. A system as claimed in claim 28 wherein said tool-holder includes mounting means such that said tool-holder is automatically interchangeable. 30. A system as claimed in claim 29 wherein said mounting means of the tool holder is such as to enable the tool holder to be selectively clamped with respect to the motor whereby changing of the tool holder can be effected or assisted by taking advantage of forces developed by operation of preceding powered parts of the system. 31. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said plurality of legs extend from said mounting to one side of said base for further movement, and said means coupled to said base and providing for additional movement is coupled to the base on another side thereof. 32. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the mounting of one or more components of the system includes a Kelvin clamp arrangement precisely determining the position of the component in the system, said Kelvin clamp arrangement comprising three struts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three mating saddles such that the arrangement has only one settling point in 6-axis space. 33. A machine tooling apparatus comprising the system of claim 1, further comprising: means for locating a workpiece adjacent said system; means for retaining a cutting tool, wherein said cutting tool retaining means is secured to said second controllably adjustable means such that movement of said second controllably adjustable means effects movement of said cutting tool for machining a workpiece located by said workpiece locating means. 34. A machine tooling apparatus of claim 33 wherein said workpiece locating means comprises a vacuum operated workpiece retaining means which includes a labyrinth elastomeric seal adapted to underlie the workpiece and distribute the applied vacuum over a surface thereof. 35. A machine tooling apparatus of claim 33 wherein said system includes a cabinet comprising upper, central and lower sections and a means for machining, the machine tooling apparatus being arranged to effect machining operations within said central section, one of the other sections containing air blowing and swarf collection systems, and the other of the other sections containing control systems for the apparatus. 36. A system as claimed in claim 1 and including means defining an airflow passageway from said mounting and down said plurality of legs, past the controllable adjustment means associated therewith and to and through said base for further movement, and past said first and second controllably adjustable means coupled to said base. 37. A system as claimed in claim 1 claims in combination with a computer system controlling the operation of the system. 38. A system as claimed in claim 37 wherein said computer system includes computer aided design facilities enabling an operator to formulate the design of an object and is adapted to effect automatic computer aided manufacture of the designed object utilizing data generated in use of the computer aided design facilities. 39. A machine tooling apparatus comprising the system of claim 1, further comprising; means for locating a workpiece adjacent said system; means for retaining a cutting tool, wherein said cutting tool retaining means is secured to said second controllably adjustable means such that movement of said second controllably adjustable means effects movement of said cutting tool for machining the workpiece located by said workpiece locating means; a computer system for controlling the operation of the mechanical movement system; wherein said computer system includes computer aided design facilities enabling an operator to formulate the design of an object and is adapted to effect automatic computer aided manufacture of the designed object utilizing data generated in use of the computer aided design facilities; and wherein said computer aided design facilities maintain a 3-D bitmap representation of the part machined workpiece at each stage of the machining process and effect collision avoidance procedures relative to said 3-D bitmap representation to avoid collision between the cutting tool and the workpiece being machined both during machining and during movement of the cutting tool around the workpiece being machined. 40. A machine tooling apparatus comprising the system of claim 1, further comprising: means for locating a workpiece adjacent said system; means for retaining a cutting tool, wherein said cutting tool retaining means is secured to said second controllably adjustable means such that movement of said second controllably adjustable means effects movement of said cutting tool for machining a workpiece located by said workpiece locating means; a computer system for controlling the operation of the system; wherein said computer system includes computer aided design facilities enabling an operator to formulate the design of an object and is adapted to effect automatic computer aided manufacture of the designed object utilizing data generated in use of the computer aided design facilities; and wherein the computer controlled machining of the object is based upon decomposition of the volume of the workpiece which is to be machined into a regular 3-D array of cuboid cells of a size related to the dimensions of the cutting tool, the system identifying cells wholly internal to the object to be manufactured, cells wholly external to the object, and boundary cells partially occupied by the object material, and being arranged to machine out wholly external cells in a rough-cut machining process before proceeding to fine machining of the boundary cells. 41. A system as claimed in claim 39 wherein the computer system includes a database of available machining tool types and selection of the cutting tool is effected in dependence upon the said database. 42. A system providing for relative rotation between first and second members and wherein bearing surfaces of said first and second members are each formed with a plurality of radially spaced apart annular grooves, the grooves of one member being complementary to those of the other whereby the two sets of grooves interengage with each other for determining the axis of relative rotation of the two members. 43. A system providing for relative rotation between first and second members and wherein bearing surfaces of said first and second members are each formed with at least one annular groove, the grooves of one member being complementary to those of the other whereby the two sets of grooves interengage with each other for determining the axis of relative rotation of the two members, wherein said grooves include spherical surfaces such that the mating of the two members simulates the mating of a spherical member into a complementary socket. 44. A jigging system for use in calibrating a system as claimed in claim 32 which utilizes one or more Kelvin clamp mounting arrangements, said jigging system comprising: a first jig having three identical, co-planar struts angularly spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and a member defining a predetermined measuring position located equidistantly from said three struts; and a second jig having means defining three identical, co-planar mating saddles for said struts spaced apart from each other by 120 degrees and three members defining measuring positions located equidistantly between respective pairs of said saddles; the first and second jigs being adapted and arranged to simulate the respective Kelvin clamp mounting arrangement. 