A three-dimensional complex preform is made formed of various types of reinforcement fiberglass fibers with a binder at the interstices which rigidize the preform to the shape and form approximating the molded article, which can be handled and stored until a final mold is made filling the interstices with plastic and curing the plastic. Complex preforms require either specific reinforcements in the form of increased sections, specific reinforcement, or require modification or enlargement in size or increase in complexity by the attachment of one or more additional preforms. To modify an existing preform and obtain a desired shape and form, reinforcement members or additional preforms are attached by energetic stitching. Energetic stitching includes the application of an electromagnetic energy curable binder and the application of electromagnetic radiation to cure the binder. The stitching normally occurs over a restricted area defined by the contact surfaces to join two or more members and the restricted area is obtained in various forms such as by applying binders in preselect areas, or by applying the curing radiation in preselect areas or by masking the application of the binder or masking the application of the energy by controlling of the location and/or areas where the stitching is applied. Substantial modifications and flexibility in the type of resultant preform can be attained whether the preform has an add on reinforcement member or is formed by the attachment of one or more additional preforms to it to obtain a complex resultant preform.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching comprising the steps: positioning a preform having a preform attachment surface; positioning a member having a member surface to be placed in surface contact with the preform attachment surface; applying electromagnetic energy curable binder between said surfaces; bringing said surfaces together in surface contact; and applying electromagnetic energy to said binder in a manner such that the preform and member will be attached over an area less than the full surfaces where they are in contact. 2. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with the steps of claim 1: wherein the binder applied is an ultraviolet energy curable binder and an ultraviolet energy is applied from a source in a manner such that the preform and member will be attached over an area less than the full surfaces where they are in contact. 3. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with the steps of claim 2: wherein the binder is applied over only a limited area between the surfaces of the preform and the member. 4. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with the steps of claim 2: wherein the binder is applied over a limited area and the ultraviolet energy is applied over an area broader than the area to which the binder is limited. 5. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with the steps of claim 2: wherein the binder is applied to a limited area less than the surface contact between the preform and the member and ultraviolet energy is applied solely to the areas of the binder. 6. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with the steps of claim 2: wherein the binder is applied to a substantial area between the surfaces of the preform and the member and a mask is located between the source of ultraviolet energy and the binder so that the binder is cured only in areas exposed by openings in the mask leaving uncured binder for attachments. 7. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with the steps of claim 2: wherein the binder is applied and a mask is provided so that the binder contacts an area between said surfaces for only a limited area. 8. An apparatus for making complex preforms utilizing energetic stitching comprising: means positioning a preform having a preform attachment surface; means positioning a member having a member surface to be placed in surface contact with the preform surface; means applying electromagnetic energy curable binder between said surfaces; means bringing said surfaces together in surface contact; and means applying electromagnetic energy to said binder in a manner such that the preform and member will be attached over an area less than the full surfaces where they are in contact. 9. An apparatus for making complex preforms by electromagnetic stitching in accordance with claim 8: wherein said applying means applies a binder curable by ultraviolet energy, and said applying means applies an ultraviolet curing energy to the binder. 10. An apparatus for making complex preforms by electromagnetic stitching in accordance with claim 9: wherein said binder applying means applies binder over only a limited area between the surfaces. 11. An apparatus for making complex preforms by electromagnetic stitching in accordance with claim 9: wherein said energy applying means applies ultraviolet energy over an area greater than the area covered by the binder. 12. An apparatus for making complex preforms by electromagnetic stitching in accordance with claim 9: wherein said binder applying means applies binder over only a limited area between said surfaces and said energy applying means applies energy only to the area covered by said binder. 13. An apparatus for making complex preforms by electromagnetic stitching in accordance with claim 9: including a mask positioned between said energy applying means and said binder so that the binder hardens only in areas of mask openings. 14. An apparatus for making complex preforms by electromagnetic stitching in accordance with claim 9: including a mask with openings positioned between the surface and the binder applying means so that the binder is applied over only a limited area. 15. The method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching comprising the steps: supplying a first preform having an attachment surface; supplying a second preform having an attachment surface to be applied to the first attachment surface; applying electromagnetic energy curable binder between said surfaces; and applying electromagnetic energy to said binder to join said first and second preforms providing a complex joined preform. 16. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with claim 15: wherein the binder is cured over a limited area between said surfaces. 17. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching in accordance with claim 15: wherein said binder is applied over only a limited area between the surfaces. 18. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching comprising the steps: supplying a first preform; supplying a second preform to the first preform for enlarging the first preform; positioning said first and second preforms together in surface contact; applying an electromagnetic energy curable binder between said surfaces; and curing said binder in limited areas to join and enlarge the resultant preform. 19. A method of making complex preforms by energetic stitching comprising the steps: supplying a first preform; supplying a plurality of additional preforms in touching contact with at least one of said additional preforms engaging said first preform; locating an electromagnetic energy curable binder at locations of touching contact; and curing the binder between said preforms to provide a new larger complex preform. 