An electronic device includes an electronic circuit having points for introducing power supply voltage, ground return, and at least one output. A keyless device package holds the electronic circuit, and the keyless device package is subject to misorientation. Terminals, including terminals for power supply voltage, the ground return and the output, are connected to the electronic circuit and secured to the device package. The terminals are distributed on the device package so that a turning reorientation of the entire electronic device translates the terminals to each other only in a way which prevents electrical stress to the electronic circuit due to possible misorientation of the electronic device under test. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electronic device comprising: an electronic circuit having points for introducing power supply voltage, ground return and at least one output; a device package for holding the electronic circuit, the device package being subject to misorientation; and terminals, including terminals for power supply voltage, the ground return, and the output, connected to said electronic circuit and secured to said device package, said terminals distributed on said device package so that a turning reorientation of the entire electronic device translates the terminals to each other only in a way which prevents electrical stress to said electronic circuit due to possible misorientation of the electronic device under test. 2. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein said device package is keyless. 3. The electronic device of claim 1 further comprising a disable terminal and means responsive to a predetermined electrical condition at said disable terminal for causing said output to assume a state which prevents damage. 4. The electronic device of claim 3 wherein the electrical state which prevents damage comprises a floating electrical state. 5. The electronic device of claim 3 wherein the terminals for ground return and disable terminal translate only among each other. 6. The electronic device of claim 3 wherein the disabling terminal is low active. 7. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals comprise pins. 8. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals comprise contact surfaces. 9. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals are adapted for surface mounting. 10. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package is an 84 pin J-leaded package. 11. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package is a pin grid array package. 12. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals for power supply voltage are seven in number. 13. The electronic device of claim 12 wherein the terminals for ground return are seven in number. 14. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package is a dual in-line package. 15. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package is a CERQUAD pack. 16. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals are mechanically symmetric. 17. The electronic device of claim 16 wherein the terminals have quadrilateral symmetry. 18. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package is a single in-line package. 19. The electronic device of claim 18 wherein the terminals include terminals for power supply voltage and terminals for ground return. 20. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals are an odd number in total number and the terminals for power supply voltage are a smaller odd number in number. 21. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals have four possible orientations and the terminals include at least one power terminal, at least three ground terminals and at least one disable terminal. 22. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the terminals also include at least one disable terminal and have a number of possible orientations wherein the sum of the number of the terminals for ground return and the number of the one or more disable terminals is equal to or is a whole number multiple of the number of possible orientations. 23. The electronic device of claim 22 wherein the number of possible orientations is 2. 24. The electronic device of claim 22 wherein the number of possible orientations is four. 25. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the electronic circuit includes a digital signal processor. 26. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the electronic circuit includes a graphics signal processor. 27. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the electronic circuit includes a microprocessor. 28. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the electronic circuit includes a memory circuit. 29. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the electronic circuit includes an analog linear circuit. 30. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package includes an electrical connector. 31. The electronic device of claim 1 wherein the device package includes a printed circuit board. 32. An electronic device comprising: an electronic circuit having a nondestructive-disable circuit and points for introducing power supply voltage, ground return and at least one output; and a device package for holding said electronic circuit and terminals secured to said device package for disable, supply voltage, ground return and each output wherein every turning reorientation of the entire electronic device which translates the terminals to each other translates a said terminal for ground return to a said terminal for disable. 33. The electronic device of claim 32 having at least two said terminals for supply voltage which translate between themselves. 34. An electronic system comprising: an electronic device having locations for application of power supply voltage, ground return and output; a keyless device package for holding said electronic device; terminals connected to said electronic device and secured to said device package; and a circuit assembly having power supply conductors to which the terminals of the electronic device are connectable in a plurality of possible physical orientations all of which orientations connect said power supply conductors to the terminals connected to said electronic device free of damage to the device. 35. The electronic system of claim 34 wherein said circuit assembly is a printed circuit board. 36. The electronic system of claim 34 wherein at least one of the terminals secured to said device package is a disable terminal and said electronic device includes circuit means responsive to said disable terminal for nondestructively disabling said electronic device and any placement of the device on the circuit assembly other than a correct orientation aligns the disable terminal to a ground connection. 37. The electronic system of claim 34 wherein said electronic device has outputs and includes a disable terminal and circuit means responsive to a predetermined electrical condition on said disable terminal for causing all of the outputs of said device to electrically float, thereby preventing any of the outputs from driving any part of the circuit assembly. 38. The electronic system of claim 37 wherein said circuit means includes internal means for applying pull-up voltage to said disable terminal. 