A system which performs a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, possibly involving differing types of tissues and differing process steps, comprising a robotic arm, which may move the different tissue samples among the plurality of processing stations, and a processor, which may select the order, timing and location of the tissue sample. The robotic device may comprise a bench robot with rectilinear motion or a rotatable tower. The processing stations may be disposed in a set of grid locations, which comprise workstations for performing individual steps of the procedures. In response to timing information about the procedures, the processor may select the sample to be moved. The processor may examine the multiple procedures for timing conflicts and it may adjust the sequence of steps for the procedures, the timing of steps with a specified range of times, or the order of the samples in order to avoid conflicts and to minimize the total time required by the system to complete the procedures. The operator may create or edit templates for workstations, create or edit lists of process steps for procedures, monitor the progress of ongoing procedures, or override the determination of what process steps to perform.
Claims We claim: 1. In a system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, a device for coupling a robotic hand to a slide holder, comprising a first horizontal element defining a first hole adapted to be coupled with said robotic hand; a second horizontal clement disposed above said first horizontal and adapted to limit said first horizontal element from motion in a vertical direction, a defining a second hole; a third horizontal element disposed below said first horizontal element and adapted to limit said first horizontal element from motion in a vertical direction, and defining a third hole; said second hole disposed with at least some exposed area that is not exposed by said first hole, and said third hole disposed with at least some exposed area that is not exposed by said first hole, whereby said first horizontal element is capable of moving in response to coupling by said robotic hand by passing said robotic hand through said second hole and interacting with said first hole. 2. A device as in claim 1, comprising a bumper disposed above said first horizontal element. 3. A device as in claim 1, comprising a guiding member coupled to said first horizontal element, whereby small misalignments by said robotic hand cause said first horizontal element to move in response to coupling by said robotic hand. 4. A device as in claim 3, wherein said guiding member comprises a lip surrounding at least a part of said first hole. 5. A device as in claim 1, comprising means for coupling said second horizontal element to a frame. 6. A device as in claim 1, comprising means for coupling said second horizontal element to said third horizontal element, whereby said second horizontal element and said third horizontal element define a space for disposing said first horizontal element. 7. A device as in claim 1, wherein at least one of said second and third holes is substantially elliptical. 8. A device as in claim 1, wherein said first hole is substantially elliptical. 9. A device as in claim 1, wherein said first horizontal element comprises a disk. 10. A device as in claim 1, wherein said first horizontal element is substantially thinner than at least one of said second horizontal element and said third horizontal element. 11. In a system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, a device for coupling a robotic hand to a slide holder, comprising: a first horizontal element defining a first hole adapted to be coupled with said robotic hand; a second horizontal element disposed above said first horizontal and adapted to limit said first horizontal element from motion in a vertical direction, a defining a second hole; a third horizontal element disposed below said first horizontal element and adapted to limit said first horizontal element from motion in a vertical direction, and defining a third hole; said second hole disposed with at least some exposed area that is not exposed by said first hole, and said third hole disposed with at least some exposed are that is not exposed by said first hole, whereby said first horizontal element is free to move in the horizontal plane and able to move in a limited fashion in the vertical direction in response to coupling by said robotic hand by passing said robotic hand through said second hole and interacting with said first hole. 