A method (10) for independently controlling each steerable drive wheel (W.sub.i) of a vehicle with two or more such wheels (W.sub.i). An instantaneous center of rotation target (ICR) and a tangential velocity target (v.sup.G) are inputs to a wheel target system (30) which sends the velocity target (v.sub.i.sup.G) and a steering angle target (.theta..sub.i.sup.G) for each drive wheel (W.sub.i) to a pseudovelocity target system (32). The pseudovelocity target system (32) determines a pseudovelocity target (v.sub.P.sup.G) which is compared to a current pseudovelocity (v.sub.P.sup.m) to determine a pseudovelocity error (.epsilon.). The steering angle targets (.theta..sup.G) and the steering angles (.theta..sup.m) are inputs to a steering angle control system (34) which outputs to the steering angle encoders (36), which measure the steering angles (.theta..sup.m). The pseudovelocity error (.epsilon.), the rate of change of the pseudovelocity error ( ), and the wheel slip between each pair of drive wheels (W.sub.i) are used to calculate intermediate control variables which, along with the steering angle targets (.theta..sup.G) are used to calculate the torque to be applied at each wheel (W.sub.i). The current distance traveled for each wheel (W.sub.i) is then calculated. The current wheel velocities (v.sup.m) and steering angle targets (.theta..sup.G) are used to calculate the cumulative and instantaneous wheel slip (e, ) and the current pseudovelocity (v.sub.P.sup.m).
Claims Having thus described the aforementioned invention, we claim: 1. A method for controlling each of a plurality of independently steerable drive wheels of a vehicle using a motion and traction controller for imparting rotation and for steering each of the plurality of independently steerable drive wheels of the vehicle, said vehicle being maneuvered about a selected center of rotation at a selected velocity, said method comprising the steps of: (a) determining a translational velocity target for each of said plurality of wheels using said motion and traction controller; (b) determining a steering angle target for each of said plurality of wheels using said motion and traction controller; (c) steering each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels at said steering angle target; (d) determining a pseudovelocity target for said vehicle using said velocity target for each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels; (e) measuring a cumulative distance traveled by each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels using said motion and traction controller; (f) determining a measured velocity of each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels using said measured cumulative distance traveled by each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels; (g) determining a wheel slip between at least one pair of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels using said measured velocities of each of said at least one pair of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels; (h) determining a measured pseudovelocity of said vehicle using said measured velocities of each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels; (i) determining an error between said measured pseudovelocity and said pseudovelocity target; (j) determining a torque to be applied to each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels using said wheel slip, said error between said measured pseudovelocity and said pseudovelocity target, and said steering angle target for each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels; and (k) setting a torque target for each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels includes a driving torque controller for performing said step of setting a torque target for each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels includes a steering angle controller for performing said step of steering each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels at said steering angle target. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels includes a cumulative distance monitor for performing said step of measuring a cumulative distance traveled by each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said motion and traction controller is used to determine a center of rotation target of said vehicle. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said motion and traction controlled is used to determine a tangential velocity target of said vehicle. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said motion and traction controller is used to perform the steps of determining a pseudovelocity target for said vehicle, determining a measured velocity of each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels, determining a wheel slip between at least one pair of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels, determining a measured pseudovelocity of said vehicle, determining an error between said measured pseudovelocity and said pseudovelocity target, and determining a torque to be applied to each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said motion and traction controller comprises a wheel target controller, a pseudovelocity controller, and a steering angle controller, said wheel target controller for outputting said velocity target and said steering angle target for each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels, said pseudovelocity target controller for outputting said pseudovelocity target for each of said plurality of independently steerable drive wheels and for determining said pseudovelocity error, and said steering angle controller for determining a current steering angle and a steering angle error based upon said steering angle target output by said wheel target controller and said current steering angle. 