A molded reflective optical waveguide module is provided. A molded first optical portion having a fist surface or a major surface is formed. A core region having a first end and a second end is disposed into the first surface of the molded first optical portion with the first end of the core region terminating in a surface having an angle. A second molded optical portion having electrical traces and photonic devices can be applied to the molded first optical portion.
Claims We claim: 1. A molded reflective optical waveguide module comprising: a molded first optical portion having a first surface; and a core region having a first terminal end and a second terminal end disposed into the first surface of the molded first optical portion, the first terminal end of the core region terminates with a reflective surface that extends across the core region entirety and having an angle, thereby reflecting a light signal. 2. A molded reflective optical waveguide as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reflective surface is coated with a reflective material. 3. A molded reflective optical waveguide as claimed in claim 2 wherein the reflective material is selected from one of the following materials: aluminum, gold, silver, platinum, or titanium. 4. A molded reflective optical waveguide as claimed in claim 1 wherein the core region is positioned at an end surface of the first optical portion so as to expose a cross-section of the core region on the end surface of the molded first optical portion. 5. A molded reflective optical waveguide as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second terminal end of the core region terminates with a reflective surface having an angle. 6. A molded reflective optical waveguide as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a first alignment guide located on the first surface of the molded first optical portion. 7. A molded reflective optical waveguide as claimed in claim 6 further comprising a second molded optical portion having a first surface with a plurality of electrical traces and a second surface having a second alignment guide, the second surface of the second optical portion is mated and aligned with the first surface of the molded first optical portion, wherein the first alignment guide and the second alignment guide are cooperatively joined. 8. A molded optical interconnect module comprising: a first molded optical portion having a first surface with a first alignment guide disposed thereon and an end surface; a core region having a first terminal end disposed into the first surface of the molded first optical portion, the first terminal end of the core region terminates in a reflective surface that extends across the core region entirety at an angle located in the first surface of the first molded optical portion; and a second molded optical portion having a first surface with a first alignment guide and a second surface with a plurality of electrical traces, the first surface and the second surface of the first and the second molded optical portions are mated and aligned using the first alignment guide of the first molded optical portion and the first alignment guide of the second molded optical portion, thereby aligning the first molded optical portion with the second molded optical portion. 9. A molded optical interconnect module as claimed in claim 8 further comprising a photonic device electrically connected to the plurality of electrical traces. 10. A molded optical interconnect module as claimed in claim 9 wherein the photonic device is a light emitting device. 11. A molded optical interconnect module as claimed in claim 10 where the light emitting device is selected from the following group: a light emitting diode, a laser. 12. A molded optical interconnect module as claimed in claim 9 wherein the photonic device is a light receiving device. 13. A molded optical interconnect module comprising: a molded optical portion having a core region with a terminal end, a cladding region that surrounds the terminal end of the core region and forms a surface, and an end surface having an alignment guide and having a portion of the core region exposed, the terminal end of the core region terminates in a reflective surface that extends across the core region entirety for reflection of a light signal; a plurality of electrical traces disposed on the surface of the cladding region; and a photonic device operably coupled to one of the plurality of electrical traces on the surface of the cladding region. 14. A method for making a molded reflective optical waveguide module comprising: molding a first optical portion having a first surface; and forming core region having a first terminal end and a second terminal end disposed into the first surface of the molded first optical portion, the first terminal end of the core region terminates with a reflective surface that extends across the core region entirety and having an angle, thereby reflecting a light signal. 15. A method for making a molded reflective opitcal waveguide module as claimed in claim 14 where, in the step of forming core region having a first terminal end and a second terminal end disposed into the first surface of the molded first optical portion, the first terminal end of the core region terminates with a reflective surface, the reflective surface is made by appling a reflective material. 