The lower arm assembly for a humanoid robot includes an arm support having a first side and a second side, a plurality of wrist actuators mounted to the first side of the arm support, a plurality of finger actuators mounted to the second side of the arm support and a plurality of electronics also located on the first side of the arm support.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A lower arm assembly for a humanoid robot comprising: an arm support having a first side and a second side; a plurality of wrist actuators mounted to the first side of the arm support; a plurality of finger actuators mounted to the second side of the arm support; a plurality of electronics located on the first side of the arm support; and wherein the plurality of finger actuators includes: a first plurality of finger actuators assembled within a semi-circular shaped housing and mounted to the second side of the arm support; and a second plurality of finger actuators arranged in a semi-circular shaped arch and mounted to the second side of the arm support around the first plurality of finger actuators. 2. The lower arm assembly of claim 1, wherein the first side of the arm support includes a support rib and wherein one of the plurality of wrist actuators are mounted on each side of the support rib. 3. The lower arm assembly of claim 2, the plurality of electronics include a ring board, a plurality of motor drivers, a lower arm controller, and a plurality of power regulators. 4. The lower arm assembly of claim 3, wherein one of the plurality of power regulators are mounted on each side of the support rib between the support rib and the respective wrist actuator. 5. The lower arm assembly of claim 3, further including, a plurality of motors, wherein each of the plurality of motors are associated with a respective one of the plurality of finger actuators and wrist actuators, and wherein each of the motor drivers is associated with at least three of the plurality of motors. 6. The lower arm assembly of claim 3, wherein the plurality of finger actuators includes at least sixteen finger actuators. 7. The lower arm assembly of claim 1, further comprising a hand extending from the lower arm, wherein the hand includes a palm side, and wherein the second side of the arm support is associated with a palm side of the hand. 8. A lower arm assembly for a humanoid robot comprising: an arm support having a first side and a second side; a plurality of wrist actuators mounted to the first side of the arm support; a first plurality of finger actuators mounted to the second side of the arm support; a second plurality of finger actuators mounted to the second side of the arm support around the first plurality of finger actuators; a plurality of electronics located on the first side of the arm support; and wherein the first side of the arm support includes a support rib and wherein one of the plurality of wrist actuators is mounted on each side of the support rib. 9. The lower arm assembly of claim 8, the plurality of electronics include a ring board, a plurality of motor drivers, a lower arm controller, and a plurality of power regulators. 10. The lower arm assembly of claim 9, further including, a plurality of motors, wherein each of the plurality of motors are associated with a respective one of the first plurality of finger actuators, the second plurality of finger actuators and the plurality of wrist actuators, and wherein each of the motor drivers is associated with at least three of the plurality of motors. 11. The lower arm for the humanoid robot of claim 10, wherein the first plurality of finger actuators includes at least six finger actuators and the second plurality of wrist actuators includes at least ten wrist actuators. 12. The lower arm for the humanoid robot of claim 1, further comprising a hand extending from the lower arm, wherein the hand includes a palm side, and wherein the second side of the arm support is associated with a palm side of the hand. 13. A lower arm assembly for a humanoid robot comprising: an arm support having a first side and a second side; a plurality of wrist actuators mounted to a first side of the arm support; a plurality of finger actuators mounted to a second side of the arm support; a support rib located on the first side of the arm support, wherein one of the plurality of wrist actuators are mounted on each side of the support rib; and a plurality of electronics located on the first side of the arm support. 14. The lower arm assembly of claim 13, wherein the plurality of finger actuators includes: a first plurality of finger actuators assembled within a semi-circular shaped housing and mounted to the second side of the arm support; and a second plurality of finger actuators arranged in a semi-circular shaped arch and mounted to the second side of the arm support around the first plurality of finger actuators. 15. The lower arm assembly of claim 13, the plurality of electronics includes a ring board, a plurality of motor drivers, a lower arm controller, and a plurality of power regulators. 16. The lower arm assembly of claim 15, wherein one of the plurality of power regulators is mounted on each side of the support rib between the support rib and the respective wrist actuator. 17. The lower arm assembly of claim 15, further including a plurality of motors, wherein each of the plurality of motors are associated with a respective one of the plurality of finger actuators and wrist actuators, and wherein each of the motor drivers is associated with at least three of the plurality of motors. 