A microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, particularly very small objects. The microgripper includes a support and two cantilevered flexible arms, each of which is mounted on one end to the support. The other ends of the flexible arms are capable of being flexed toward and away from each other. A servomotor, is affixed to the support. There is a slide arrangement driven by the servomotor and which is adapted to move the unmounted ends of the flexible arms toward or away from each other, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement. An apparatus which includes a micromanipulator, the microgripper which is operationally, detachably affixed to the micromanipulator, and a control system which is electrically connected to the motor means whereby the movement of the slide arrangement is controlled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, comprising: (a) support means having a first and a second end; (b) elongated, rotatable means comprising a worm screw having a first end and a second end, a first half of the worm screw having threading which is opposed to threading on a second half of the worm screw, the first end of the worm screw being rotatably mounted in the first end of the support means, the second end of the worm screw being rotatably mounted in the second end of the support means; (c) motor means affixed to the support means, the motor means being adapted to rotate said worm screw in a clockwise direction or a counterclockwise direction, the motor means being selected from the group consisting of a stepper motor and a servomotor with an encoder which is integral with the servomotor, the servomotor having a threaded, rotatable shaft, the encoder being adapted to control the rotational speed of the servomotor and the threaded shaft thereof, which in turn controls relative rotational motion of the worm screw, the stepper motor having a threaded, rotatable shaft, which in turn controls the relative rotational motion of the worm screw; (d) a first cantilevered flexible arm and a second cantilevered flexible arm, and a first end of said first arm having an internally threaded passageway, which is mounted on the first threaded half of the worm screw, a first end of said second arm having an internally threaded passageway, which is mounted on the second threaded half of the worm screw, a second end of said first arm being free, a second end of said second arm being free, the free ends of said arms being positioned so that the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm are capable of being moved toward or away from each other, the free ends of said arms being capable of being flexed towards or away from each other in a common plane, each of said free ends of said arms being a fine tip; the rotatable means being adapted to move the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm toward or away from each other, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement, the gripping taking place with the tip ends of the free ends of the arms, the tip ends of the free ends of the arms being capable of gripping a very small fragile object. 2. The microgripper of claim 1 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm comprises a first replaceable tip, and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm comprises a second replaceable tip. 3. The microgripper of claim 2 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a slanted tip, and the slanted tips face each other. 4. The microgripper of claim 2 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a vertical slide groove, and the vertical slide grooves face each other. 5. The microgripper of claim 1 wherein the motor means is the stepper motor. 6. The microgripper of claim 1 wherein the motor means is the servomotor and the encoder. 7. An apparatus comprising: (i) a micromanipulator; and (ii) a microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, comprising: (a) support means having a first and a second end; (b) elongated, rotatable means comprising a worm screw having a first end and a second end, a first half of the worm screw having threading which is opposed to threading on a second half of the worm screw, the first end of the worm screw being rotatably mounted in the first end of the support means, the second end of the worm screw being rotatably mounted in the second end of the support means; (c) motor means affixed to the support means, the motor means being adapted to rotate said worm screw in a clockwise direction or a counterclockwise direction, the motor means being selected from the group consisting of a stepper motor and a servomotor with an encoder which is integral with the servomotor, the servomotor having a threaded, rotatable shaft, the encoder being adapted to control the rotational speed of the servomotor and the threaded shaft thereof, which in turn controls relative rotational motion of the worm screw, the stepper motor having a threaded, rotatable shaft, which in turn controls the relative rotational motion of the worm screw; (d) a first cantilevered flexible arm and a second cantilevered flexible arm, and a first end of said first arm having an internally threaded passageway, which is mounted on the first threaded half of the worm screw, a first end of said second arm having an internally threaded passageway, which is mounted on the second threaded half of the worm screw, a second end of said first arm being free, a second end of said second arm being free, the free ends of said arms being positioned so that the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm are capable of being moved toward or away from each other, the free ends of said arms being capable of being flexed towards or away from each other in a common plane, each of said free ends of said arms being a fine tip; the rotatable means being adapted to move the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm toward or away from each other, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement, the gripping taking place with the tip ends of the free ends of the arms, the tip ends of the free ends of the arms being capable of gripping a very small fragile object. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm comprises a first replaceable tip, and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm comprises a second replaceable tip. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a slanted tip, and the slanted tips face each other. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the tip end of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a vertical slide groove, and the vertical slide grooves face each other. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the motor means is the stepper motor. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the motor means is the servomotor and the encoder. 13. A microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, comprising: (a) support means having a first and a second end; (b) continuous, elongated, rotatable means having a first end, a second end, and a longitudinal axis, a first end of the continuous, rotatable means being rotatably mounted in the first end of the support means, a second end of the continuous, rotatable means being rotatably mounted in the second end of the support means; (c) motor means affixed to the support means, the motor means being adapted to rotate said continuous, rotatable means in a clockwise direction or a counterclockwise direction, the motor means being selected from the group consisting of a stepper motor and a servomotor with an encoder which is integral with the servomotor, the servomotor having a rotatable shaft, the encoder being adapted to control the rotational speed of the servomotor and the shaft thereof, which in turn controls relative rotational motion of the continuous, rotatable means, the stepper motor having a rotatable shaft, which in turn controls the relative rotational motion of the continuous, rotatable means; (d) a first cantilevered flexible arm and a second cantilevered flexible arm, and a first end of said first arm being movably mounted on a first half of the continuous, rotatable means so as to be movable along the longitudinal axis of the continuous, rotatable means, a first end of said second arm being movably mounted on the second half of the continuous, rotatable means so as to be movable along the longitudinal axis of the continuous, rotatable means, a second end of said first arm being free, a second end of said second arm being free, the free ends of said arms being positioned so that the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm are capable of being moved toward or away from each other, the free ends of said arms being capable of being flexed towards or away from each other in a common plane, each of said free ends of said arms being a fine tip; the continuous, rotatable means being adapted to move the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm toward or away from each other, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement, the gripping taking place with the tip ends of the free ends of the arms, the tip ends of the free ends of the arms being capable of gripping a very small fragile object. 14. The microgripper of claim 13 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm comprises a first replaceable tip, and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm comprises a second replaceable tip. 15. The microgripper of claim 14 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a slanted tip, and the slanted tips face each other. 16. The microgripper of claim 14 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a vertical slide groove and the vertical slide grooves face each other. 17. The microgripper of claim 13 wherein the motor means is the stepper motor. 18. The microgripper of claim 13 wherein the motor means is the servomotor and the encoder. 19. An apparatus comprising: (i) a micromanipulator; and (ii) a microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, comprising: (a) support means having a first and a second end; (b) continuous, elongated, rotatable means having a first end, a second end, and a longitudinal axis, a first end of the continuous, rotatable means being rotatably mounted in the first end of the support means, a second end of the continuous, rotatable means being rotatably mounted in the second end of the support means; (c) motor means affixed to the support means, the motor means being adapted to rotate said continuous, rotatable means in a clockwise direction or a counterclockwise direction, the motor means being selected from the group consisting of a stepper motor and a servomotor with an encoder which is integral with the servomotor, the servomotor having a rotatable shaft, the encoder being adapted to control the rotational speed of the servomotor and the shaft thereof, which in turn controls relative rotational motion of the continuous, rotatable means, the stepper motor having a rotatable shaft, which in turn controls the relative rotational motion of the continuous, rotatable means; (d) a first cantilevered flexible arm and a second cantilevered flexible arm, and a first end of said first arm being movably mounted on a first half of the continuous, rotatable means so as to be movable along the longitudinal axis of the continuous, rotatable means, a first end of said second arm being movably mounted on the second half of the continuous, rotatable means so as to be movable along the longitudinal axis of the continuous, rotatable means, a second end of said first arm being free, a second end of said second arm being free, the free ends of said arms being positioned so that the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm are capable of being moved toward or away from each other, the free ends of said arms being capable of being flexed towards or away from each other in a common plane, each of said free ends of said arms being a fine tip; the continuous, rotatable means being adapted to move the free end of the first arm and the free end of the second arm toward or away from each other, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement, the gripping taking place with the tip ends of the free ends of the arms, the tip ends of the free ends of the arms being capable of gripping a very small fragile object. 20. The microgripper of claim 19 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm comprises a first replaceable tip, and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm comprises a second replaceable tip. 21. The microgripper of claim 20 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a slanted tip, and the slanted tips face each other. 22. The microgripper of claim 20 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a vertical slide groove, and the vertical slide grooves face each other. 23. The microgripper of claim 19 wherein the motor means is the stepper motor. 24. The microgripper of claim 19 wherein the motor means is the servomotor and the encoder. 