A robotic gripper module, which can be fitted to a robotic arm or other support, houses a rotor which is rotatable relative to the frame of the module. The rotor has at least two equiangularly positioned slots, each extending at the same relative angle to a radius of the rotor. A cam follower mounted on radially-moveable slide members is positioned in each of those slots and also in a respective radial slot in the module frame, and rotation of the rotor causes the cam followers and slide members, on which finger assemblies may be mounted, to move together radially inwardly or outwardly on the frame. An arcuate gear segment on the periphery of the rotor meshes with a gear rack on one end of a rod; the other end of the rod connects to a piston-and-cylinder actuator. In one form of the module two rotors rotate on a single axle, one on each side of the module. The two rods associated with the two rotors extend from opposite sides of the cylindrical space between the rotors, and the pair of associated actuators are positioned outside that space. This arrangement allows for a thin module with a significant space saving over other robotic modules.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic gripper module comprising: (a) a frame adapted to be fitted to an end of a robotic arm or to other support means; (b) a rotor rotatably mounted on the frame and bearing a series of equiangularly-spaced first slots each extending at an angle to a radius of the axis of rotation; (c) at least two cam followers mounted one each on radially-movable slide members to which finger assemblies may be attached, each cam follower being constrained to move in a respective first slot and also in a respective one of a series of second slots in the frame, each second slot extending radially from a point on the frame that corresponds with the rotational axis of the rotor, rotation of the rotor thereby resulting in the cam followers and slide members moving uniformly either toward or away from each other; (d) a first rod extending parallel to a face of the rotor proximate one outer circumferential edge of the rotor, and being in positive engagement with said outer circumferential edge of the rotor such that axial movement of the first rod results in rotation of the rotor; and, (e) a first actuator positioned outside of the periphery of the rotor, the first actuator creating the axial movement of the first rod; whereby actuation of the first actuator results in rotation of the rotor and in radial movement of the cam followers and slide members to which finger assemblies may be attached. 2. A robotic gripper module as in claim 1, wherein the rod has a gear rack that engages a gear segment extending on the face of the rotor. 3. A robotic gripper module as in claim 1, wherein the actuator is a pneumatic piston-and-cylinder. 4. A robotic gripper module as in claim 1, wherein there are two said cam followers and slide members. 5. A robotic gripper module as in claim 1, wherein there are three said cam followers and slide members. 6. A robotic gripper module as in claim 1, further comprising: (f) a second rod extending parallel to the first rod and positioned proximate a diametrically-opposite edge of the rotor from the first rod, the second rod also being in positive engagement with the rotor such that axial movement of the second rod results in rotation of the rotor; and (g) a second actuator positioned outside of the periphery of the rotor, the second actuator creating the axial movement of the second rod; whereby actuation of the second actuator also results in rotation of the rotor and in radial movement of the cam followers and slide members. 7. A robotic gripper module as in claim 6, wherein each first actuator and each second actuator is a pneumatic piston-and-cylinder. 8. A robotic gripper module comprising: (a) a frame adapted to be fitted to an end of a robotic arm or to other support means; (b) a pair of rotors rotatably mounted on the frame so as to extend in parallel on opposite sides of the frame, each rotor being rotatable on a respective axis and bearing a series of equiangularly-spaced first slots each extending at an angle to a radius of the respective axis; (c) at least two cam followers mounted one each on radially-movable slide members to which finger assemblies may be attached, each cam follower being constrained to move in a respective first slot and also in a respective one of a series of second slots in the frame, each second slot extending radially from a point on the frame that corresponds with the rotational axis of a respective one of the rotors, rotation of a rotor thereby resulting in the cam followers and slide members moving uniformly either toward or away from each other; (d) a pair of rods, each extending into an opposite slide of the space between the rotors, each rod being in positive engagement with a respective one of the rotors such that axial movement of a rod results in rotation of the respective rotor; and, (e) a pair of actuators, each being positioned outside of the space between the rotors and actuating a respective one of the rods; whereby actuation of one of the actuators results in rotation of the rotor associated with that module, and in radial movement of the cam followers and slide members associated with that rotor. 9. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein the rotors are rotatable on a common axis. 10. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein each rod is positioned approximately equidistant from both rotors. 11. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein the width of each actuator module is approximately equal to the distance between an outer face of one rotor and an outer face of the other rotor. 12. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein each rod has a gear rack that engages a gear segment that extends on an inner face of the respective one of the rotors. 13. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein each actuator is a pneumatic piston-and-cylinder. 14. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein two cam followers are associated with each rotor. 15. A robotic gripper module as in claim 8, wherein three cam followers are associated with each rotor. 16. A robotic gripper module comprising: (a) a frame adapted to be fitted to an end of a robotic arm or to other support means; (b) a pair of pneumatic cylinders mounted on the frame, each cylinder having a piston mounted therein; (c) a rod connected to each piston; (d) a pair of rotors rotatably mounted on a common shaft on the frame so as to extend in parallel on opposite sides of the frame, a cylindrical region being thereby defined between the rotors, each rod extending into a respective opposite side of the cylindrical region and being positioned approximately equidistant from both rotors, each rod having a surface in positive engagement with a surface on an arcuate extension of a respective rotor, each rotor having a series of equiangularly-spaced first slots each extending at an angle to a radius of the shaft; and, (e) at least two cam followers mounted one each on radially-movable slide members to which finger assemblies may be attached, each of the cam followers being constrained to move in an associated first slot and also being constrained to move in one of a series of second slots extending on the frame radially from the shaft, rotation of a rotor thereby resulting in the cam followers and slide members associated with that rotor moving uniformly either toward or away from each other; whereby pneumatic actuation of a piston results in rotation of the rotor associated with that piston, and in radial movement of the cam followers and slide members associated with that rotor. 17. A robotic gripper module as in claim 16, wherein the width of each pneumatic cylinder is approximately equal to the distance between an outer face of one rotor and an outer face of the other rotor. 18. A robotic gripper module as in claim 16, wherein each rod has a gear rack that engages a series of teeth on the arcuate extension of the respective one of the rotors. 19. A robotic gripper module as in claim 16, wherein two cam followers are associated with each rotor. 20. A robotic gripper module as in claim 16, wherein three cam followers are associated with each rotor. 