A conductor handling apparatus uses a rotating disk to move a single conductor to a first position on a path where a conductor identifier is located. The conductor identifier identifies the conductor by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on the conductor. A controller rotates the disk in a direction based on the identity of the conductor, and a conductor unloader moves the conductor from the rotating disk. A conductor transfer mechanism moves the conductor from the unloader to a predetermined position where the conductor is inserted into a contact of a connector.
Claims We claim: 1. A conductor handling apparatus, comprising: rotating disk means for moving a single conductor to a first position on a path; conductor identifier means for identifying said conductor by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor, said conductor identifier means being located at said first position on said path; control means for controlling said rotating disk means, said control means causing said rotating disk mean to rotate in a direction based on a conductor identity determined using said conductor identifier means; conductor unload means for removing said conductor from said rotating disk means; and conductor transfer means for moving said conductor from said conductor unload means to a predetermined position based on said conductor identity, said conductor transfer mechanism grasping said conductor between a first surface and a second surface that move toward each other. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said conductor unload means comprises a spring loaded cam surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first surface is supported by a first member and said second surface is supported by a second member, said second member being pivotally attached to said first member. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein first member moves between a first position and a second position. 5. A conductor handling apparatus, comprising: rotating disk means for moving a single conductor to a first position on a path; conductor identifier means for identifying said conductor by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor, said conductor identifier means being located at said first position on said path; control means for controlling said rotating disk means, said control means causing said rotating disk means to move said conductor to a second position on said path and back to said first position when a short circuit is detected using said conductor identifier means; conductor unload means for removing said conductor from said rotating disk means; and conductor transfer means for moving said conductor from said conductor unload means to a predetermined position based on a conductor identity determined using said conductor identifier means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said conductor unload means comprises a spring loaded cam surface. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said control means causes said rotating disk mean to rotate in a direction based on said conductor identity. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said conductor transfer means comprises a first and a second surface that grasp said conductor. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said first surface is supported by a first member and said second surface is supported by a second member, said second member being pivotally attached to said first member. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein first member moves between a first position and a second position. 11. A conductor handling apparatus, comprising: rotating disk means for moving a single conductor to a first position on a path; first conductor identifier means for identifying said conductor by completing a first circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor, said conductor identifier means being located at said first position on said path; second conductor identifier means for identifying said conductor by completing a second circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor, said conductor identifier means being located at a second position on said path; control means for controlling said rotating disk means, said control means causing said rotating disk means to move said conductor to said second position on said circular path when a short circuit is detected using said first conductor identifier means; conductor unload means for removing said conductor from said rotating disk means; and conductor transfer means for moving said conductor from said conductor unload means to a predetermined position based on a conductor identity determined using at least one of said conductor identifier means. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said conductor unload means comprises a spring loaded cam surface. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said control means causes said rotating disk mean to rotate in a direction based on said conductor identity. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said conductor transfer means comprises a first and a second surface that grasp said conductor. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said first surface is supported by a first member and said second surface is supported by a second member, said second member being pivotally attached to said first member. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein first member moves between a first position and a second position. 17. A method for handling conductors, comprising the steps of: moving a single conductor to a first position on a path using a rotating disk; identifying said conductor while at said first position by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor; rotating said disk in a direction based on a conductor identity; moving said conductor from said rotating disk to an unload position; and moving said conductor from said unload position to a predetermined position based on said conductor identity by grasping said conductor between a first surface and a second surface that move toward each other. 18. A method for handling conductors, comprising the steps of: moving a single conductor to a first position on a path using a rotating disk; identifying said conductor while at said first position by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor; rotating said disk to move said conductor to a second position on said path and back to said first position when a short circuit is detected; moving said conductor from said rotating disk to an unload position; and moving said conductor from said unload position to a predetermined position based on said conductor identity. 19. A method for handling conductors, comprising the steps of: moving a single conductor to a first position on a path using a rotating disk; completing a first circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor while at said first position; rotating said disk to move said conductor to a second position on said path when said step of completing a first circuit results in a short circuit; completing a second circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor while at said second position to identify said conductor; moving said conductor from said rotating disk to an unload position; and moving said conductor from said unload position to a predetermined position based on said conductor identity. 20. A conductor handling apparatus, comprising: combing means for forming a linear array of conductors from a collection of conductors extending from a desheathed end of a multi-conductor cable, said combing means having a first and a second surface that move toward each other to capture said collection of conductors between said surfaces; rotating disk means for moving a single conductor from said linear array to a first position on a path; conductor identifier means for identifying said conductor by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor, said conductor identifier means being located at said first position on said path; control means for controlling said rotating disk means, said control means causing said rotating disk mean to rotate in a direction based on a conductor identity determined using said conductor identifier means; conductor unload means for removing said conductor from said rotating disk means; and conductor transfer means for moving said conductor from said conductor unload means to a predetermined position based on said conductor identity. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said combing means moves said first and second surfaces in a direction away from said desheathed end to form said linear array. 22. A method for handling conductors, comprising the steps of: forming a linear array of conductors from a collection of conductors extending from a desheathed end of a multi-conductor cable by moving a first and a second surface toward each other to capture said collection of conductors between said surfaces; moving a single conductor to a first position on a path using a rotating disk; identifying said conductor while at said first position by completing a circuit used to detect a signal on said conductor; rotating said disk in a direction based on a conductor identity; moving said conductor from said rotating disk to an unload position; and moving said conductor from said unload position to a predetermined position based on said conductor identity. 