A system for the multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds preferably uses a reaction apparatus comprising a reservoir rack having a plurality of reaction wells, a plurality of reaction tubes, usually gas dispersion tubes, having filters on their lower ends, a holder block, having a plurality of apertures, and a manifold, which has ports to allow introduction/maintenance of a controlled environment. The manifold top wall has a plurality of apertures in axial alignment with the reaction tubes and a gasket which allows penetration by a needle in order to dispense and aspirate materials from the reaction tubes. Sealing members, such as gaskets, are placed between the holder block, manifold and reservoir rack and the components are releasably fastened together. A robotic sample processor is used to automate the synthesis process using the reaction apparatus.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A system for multiple simultaneous synthesis of a plurality of compounds comprising: (a) a sealed reaction apparatus, said apparatus comprising a reservoir member having a plurality of reaction wells for holding reaction materials, a plurality of tubular members for holding reaction materials, a holder member attached to said reservoir member for holding said tubular members, and a manifold member attached to said holder member and enclosing a portion of said tubular members, (b) a sample processor, (c) means on said sample processor for dispensing and aspirating materials at least into and from said tubular members, (d) first controller means for controlling the operation of said sample processor, including controlling the dispensing and aspirating of materials into and from said tubular members, (e) a multi-axis robot member for manipulating said reaction apparatus on said sample processor, and (f) second controller means for controlling the operation of said multi-axis robot member in order to manipulate said reaction apparatus on said sample processor. 2. The system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising sealing means for sealing said manifold to said holder member and said reaction wells to said holder member. 3. The system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said means on said sample processor comprises at least one movable arm member, said arm member having a movable probe member. 4. The system as set forth in claim 3 wherein said probe member has a tip member thereon. 5. The system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said manifold member is fixedly secured to said holder member, and said holder member is releasably secured to said reservoir member. 6. The system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said tubular members each have at least one pressure equalization opening therein. 7. The system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said manifold member has an upper surface with a plurality of sealed openings therein, said openings being in axial alignment with said tubular members. 8. The system as set forth in claim 7 wherein said means on said sample processor comprises at least one movable arm member, a movable probe member positioned on said arm member, and an elongated tip member attached to said probe member, and wherein said sealed opening allows entry of said tip member into said manifold. 9. The system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for controlling the temperature of materials placed in the tubular members. 10. The system as set forth in claim 9 wherein said means for controlling the temperature comprises at least one liquid bath. 11. The system as set forth in claim 10 wherein said liquid bath is positioned immediately below said sample processor. 12. The system as set forth in claim 11 wherein said sample processor has a deck member with at least one opening therein and said holder member is adapted to be secured in said opening whereby said reservoir member is adapted to be at least partially submerged in said liquid bath. 13. The system as set forth in claim 10 wherein said liquid bath is heated. 14. The system as set forth in claim 10 wherein said liquid bath is cooled. 15. The system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robot means has at least one movable arm member with a grasping member thereon. 16. The system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for agitating the materials in said tubular members. 17. The system as set forth in claim 16 wherein said means for agitating comprises ultrasonic means. 18. A system for the parallel synthesis of a plurality of compounds comprising a reaction apparatus having a holder member, a plurality of reaction tubes held by said holder member, each reaction tube having a lower end with a filter means thereon and an upper end, a plurality of reaction wells releasably secured to said holder member, the lower ends and filter means of said reaction tubes adapted to be positioned in said reaction wells, and a manifold member positioned on said holder member, said manifold member having means to allow aspiration and dispersing of materials into said reaction tubes, and a robotic sample processor, said sample processor having at least one movable probe means adapted to aspirate materials from a first container and dispense them into said reaction tubes, and adapted to aspirate materials at least from said reaction tubes and dispense it into a second container, wherein said means on said manifold to allow aspirating and dispensing of materials into said reaction tubes comprises a first sealing means and an apertured plate member, said plate member having at least one aperture axially aligned with each reaction tube, and said first sealing means allowing penetration therethrough by said probe means in order to permit dispensing of materials into said reaction tubes and aspirating materials from said reaction tubes without affecting the sealing integrity of said manifold. 19. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein said manifold member is releasably fastened to said holder member. 20. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein said manifold member is fixedly secured to said holder member. 21. The system as set forth in claim 18 further comprising a second sealing means sealing said manifold member to said holder member and a third sealing means sealing said reaction wells to said holder member. 22. The system as set forth in claim 18 further comprising pressure equalization means on each of said reaction tubes. 23. The system as set forth in claim 22 wherein said pressure equalization means comprises at least one opening positioned adjacent said filter means. 24. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein said filter means comprises a hollow glass frit. 25. The system as set forth in claim 18 further comprising a robot means for manipulating said reaction apparatus. 26. The system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said robot means is a four-axis robot. 27. The system as set forth in claim 18 wherein said robotic sample processor has two movable probe members. 28. A system for the parallel synthesis of a plurality of compounds comprising: a reaction apparatus having a holder member, a plurality of reaction vessels held by said holder member for holding materials, each reaction tube having a lower end with a filter member thereon and an upper end, each of said filter members having a hollow cavity therein, a plurality of reaction wells for holding materials and releasably secured to said holder member, the lower ends and filter member of said reaction tubes adapted to be positioned in said reaction wells, a robotic sample processor, said sample processor having at least one movable probe means adapted to aspirate materials from a first container and dispense them into said reaction tubes, and adapted to aspirate materials at least from said reaction tubes and dispense it into a second container, and a multi-axis robot for manipulating said reaction apparatus at least on said sample processor. 29. A system for the parallel synthesis of a plurality of compounds comprising: a reaction apparatus having a holder member, a plurality of reaction tubes for holding materials and held by said holder member, each reaction tube having a lower end with a filter member thereon and an upper end, a plurality of reaction wells for holding materials and releasably secured to said holder member, the lower ends and filter member of said reaction tubes adapted to be positioned in said reaction wells, each of said reaction tubes having at least one opening adjacent said filter member for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, and a manifold member positioned on said holder member, said manifold member having means to allow aspiration and dispersing of materials into said reaction tubes, a robotic sample processor, said sample processor having at least one movable probe means adapted to aspirate materials from a first container and dispense them into said reaction tubes, and adapted to aspirate materials at least from said reaction tubes and dispense it into a second container, and a multi-axis robot for manipulating said reaction apparatus with respect to said sample processor. 30. A system for the parallel synthesis of a plurality of compounds comprising: a reaction apparatus having a holder member, a plurality of reaction tubes held by said holder member, each reaction tube having a lower end with a filter member thereon and an upper end, each of said filter members having a hollow cavity therein, a plurality of reaction wells releasably secured to said holder member, the lower ends and filter member of said reaction tubes adapted to be positioned in said reaction wells, each of said reaction tubes having at least one opening adjacent said filter member for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, and a manifold member positioned on said holder member, said manifold member having means to allow aspiration and dispersing of materials into said reaction tubes, and a robotic sample processor, said sample processor having at least one movable probe means adapted to aspirate materials from a first container and dispense them into said reaction tubes, and adapted to aspirate materials at least from said reaction tubes and dispense it into a second container. 31. The system as set forth in claim 30 further comprising a multi-axis robot for manipulating said reaction apparatus. 