Water driven robots are provided which can be used for moving different objects at different controlled directions and frequencies to obtain energy and power from the flow of a liquid, such as water. A container (10) contains a siphonic outlet which is capable of converting relatively low continuous flow of water, entering through its inlet (17), to a relatively high intermittent pulsating flow of water, ejected from its outlet (23). Such flow is used for moving the robot as follows: During each cycle, water fills the container so that its weight increases, causing the container to move down and move a pulley (65) or other object (73). When the container's liquid level reaches the inlet of the siphon, it rapidly drains and becomes lighter, thereby resulting in a return of the weight. Thus a continuous inflow of liquid causes the container to oscillate vertically and provides force, energy, and power for operating such robots, for controlling their motion, and for operating work loads connected to the robots.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot that operates by energy of liquid that flows from one elevation to another, lower elevation comprising: a container having a liquid inlet and a liquid outlet, said container being able to move in a vertical direction in response to a change in the weight of said container, syphon means for converting a continuous flow of liquid entering said liquid inlet of said container at a low flow rate to an intermittent flow ejected from said liquid outlet of said container at a higher flow rate, and connecting means for connecting said container to a source of liquid for supplying said continuous flow of liquid to said container, whereby said container will move up and down in a cyclic movement in response to said continuous flow of liquid thereinto. 2. The robot of claim 1, further including a device connected to said container so that said device moves in response to the movements of said container. 3. The robot of claim 2 said device comprises a flexible elongated member, a pulley, and a counterweight, one end of said flexible elongated member connected to said container, the other end of said flexible elongated member connected to said counterweight, and said flexible elongated member being dressed over said pulley. 4. A robot according to claim 1, further including at least on object whose weight is heavier than the weight of said container when said container is empty and lighter than said container when said container contains at least some of said liquid, and means for connecting said object to said container such that said object will move due to the force created by the weight of said liquid that flows into and out from said container. 5. A robot according to claim 1, further including means for stopping the movement of said container. 6. A robot according to claim 1, further including a second container similar said first-named container, said second container having a liquid inlet to receive liquid from said liquid outlet of said first-named container so as to create a time delay. 7. A robotic system according to claim 6, further including a third container having an input connected to receive liquid from said liquid outlet of said second container and having an output, said third container being able to move vertically. 8. A robotic system according to claim 6, further including a plurality of electrical switches responsive to the motion of said first-named and second containers. 9. The robot of claim 1 wherein said converting syphon means comprises a tube having an open top end, said tube extending vertically up from a floor of said container and having an open bottom communicating with a space below said container, a cylinder concentrically surrounding said tube and extending down from a top of said container, said cylinder having a closed upper end and an open bottom end adjacent but spaced from said floor of said container. 10. The robot of claim 1 wherein said converting syphon means comprises a tube having an open top end, said tube extending vertically up from a floor of said container and bending around at a bight portion thereof so that said open top end is adjacent but spaced from said floor of said container and is below said bight portion. 11. The device of claim 2, further including a sign connected to said container, whereby said sign will move up and down in a cyclic movement in response to said continuous flow of liquid into said container. 12. A device for converting the energy of flowing liquid to oscillatory vertical translatory energy, comprising: a container having a bottom and walls extending up from said bottom, said container being free to move in a vertical direction, a siphonic tube in said container which has a lower end extending out of said bottom of said container, said siphonic tube having am upper inlet adjacent a top portion of said container, and a passageway communicating with said upper inlet and leading down to adjacent said bottom of said container whereby said container will move up and down in cyclic movement in response to said continuous flow of liquid thereinto. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein said passageway is an extension of said siphonic tube. 14. The device of claim 12 wherein said passageway is a cylinder surrounding said siphonic tube, said cylinder concentrically surrounding said tube and extending down from a top of said container, said cylinder having a closed upper end an open bottom end adjacent but spaced from said floor of said container. 15. The device of claim 12, further including a member connected to said container so that said member moves in response to the movement of said container. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein said member comprises a flexible elongated member, a pulley, and a counterweight, one end of said flexible elongated member connected to said container, the other end of said flexible elongated member being dressed over said pulley. 17. The device of claim 12, further including at least one object whose weight is heavier than the weight of said container when said container is empty and lighter than said container when said container contains at least some of said liquid, and means for connecting said object to said container such that said object will move due to the force created by the weight of said liquid that flows into and out from said container. 18. The device of claim 12, further including means for stopping the movement of said container. 19. The device of claim 12, further including a second container similar said first-named container, said second container having an input connected to receive liquid from said lower end of said siphonic tube so as to create a time delay. 