A virtual surgery system or virtual testing system provides a simulation or test based on image data. A simulator combined with a real exam requires simulation tasks by a test taker. Additionally, a surgical procedure may be simulated using image data of a patient in devices simulating the physical instruments a surgeon uses in performing the actual procedure, for example. The user input device, such as a mouse, three dimensional mouse, joystick, seven dimensional joystick, fall size simulator, etc., can be used in a virtual simulation to move through the image data while the user looks at the data and interaction of the input device with the image data on a display screen. Force feedback can be provided based on based on physical constraint models (of the anatomy, for example), or based on edge and collision detection between the virtual scope or virtual tool used by the operator and walls or edges of the image data in the image space. The virtual simulator may be used as a teaching, training, testing, demonstration, or remote telesurgery device, for example.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical simulator user input device comprising: a housing having a first virtual orifice wherein said first virtual orifice is connected to a computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure, and wherein said first virtual orifice is adjustable by the computer to represent a particular orifice of a human body; a first virtual medical instrument corresponding to a real medical instrument, wherein said first virtual medical instrument includes a second virtual orifice connected to the computer for conducting a virtual surgery procedure and wherein said first virtual medical instrument extends into said housing through said first virtual orifice; and a second virtual medical instrument extending through said second virtual orifice in said first virtual medical instrument. 2. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second virtual medical instruments is a virtual mouse. 3. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 1, further comprising means for providing force feedback on said first virtual medical instrument. 4. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 1 wherein when said first virtual orifice is adjusted to represent a particular orifice of a human body the computer provides data for the anatomy related to the particular orifice of a human body to a display device. 5. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 1, wherein said first virtual orifice is able to transmit data to the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure. 6. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 1, wherein said second virtual orifice is able to transmit data to the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure. 7. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 2 wherein said virtual mouse transmits data to the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure. 8. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 2 wherein said virtual mouse includes means for simulating a function performed by a medical instrument in a surgical procedure. 9. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 3 wherein said means for providing force feedback on said first virtual medical instrument is edge collision and detection software resident in the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure and a force feedback device contained within said housing. 10. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device includes rollers, arms and springs. 11. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is a mechanical device. 12. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is an electro-mechanical device. 13. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is a pneumatic device. 14. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is a hydraulic device. 15. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 1 wherein said housing includes rollers, arms and springs and wherein said first virtual medical instrument is positioned within said housing by said rollers, arms and springs. 16. The surgical stimulator user input device according to claim 1 wherein said housing is a box. 17. A surgical simulator user input device comprising: a housing having a virtual orifice connected to a computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure wherein said virtual orifice is adjustable by the computer to represent a particular orifice of a human body; a first virtual medical instrument corresponding to a real medical instrument, wherein said first virtual medical instrument includes an orifice; and a second virtual medical instrument corresponding to a real medical instrument; wherein said first virtual medical instrument extends into said housing through said virtual orifice connected to a computer and wherein said second virtual medical instrument extends into said first virtual medical instrument through said orifice. 18. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 17 wherein when said virtual orifice is adjusted to represent a particular orifice of a human body the computer provides data for the anatomy related to the orifice to a display device. 19. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 17 wherein said virtual orifice transmits data to the computer. 20. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 17 wherein said orifice in said first virtual medical instrument is a virtual orifice connected to the computer. 21. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 20 wherein said virtual orifice in said first virtual medical instrument transmits data to the computer. 22. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 17 wherein said second virtual medical instrument receives force feedback from the computer. 23. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 17 wherein said housing is a box. 24. The surgical simulator user input device according to claim 17 further comprising means for providing force feedback on said first virtual medical instrument. 