A treatment delivery apparatus comprises a metallic object and a treatment carrier device which is connected by a heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link to the magnetic object. This carrier device contains the treatment, i.e. the drug, to be transported. An electromagnet is positioned outside of the body part for producing a magnetic field which captures the magnetic object. This electromagnet may be either a simple coil system attached to a robotic arm which moves the electromagnet adjacent the body part, or a multicoil electromagnet system surrounding the body part. In either case, the robotically moved electromagnet or multicoil electromagnet system moves the magnetic object within the body part to a desired location. A computer controls either the robotic arm or multicoil current magnitudes and directions. This computer also provides visualization for observing the location and movement of the magnetic object and carrier device. Upon reaching the desired location, the magnetic object is heated, which causes the heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link to melt, which separates the drug-containing carrier device from the magnetic object. The electromagnet means then moves the magnetic object back out of the body part. The treatment-containing carrier device remains in the desired location and the drug is delivered to the specific location.
Claims We claim: 1. A drug delivering apparatus comprising: a) a magnetic means for inserting in a body part; b) a carrier means for carrying a treatment to a specific location in the body part; and c) a connection means for releasably connecting the carrier means to the magnetic means and for disengaging the carrier means from the magnetic means. 2. The drug delivering apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: d) electromagnet means positioned outside the body part for producing a magnetic field which captures the magnetic means; e) positioning means connected to the electromagnet means for moving the electromagnet means adjacent the body part, wherein the electromagnet means moves the magnetic means within the body part to a specific location; f) control means connected to the positioning means for controlling the positioning means' movement of the electromagnet means; and g) visualization means for observing location and movement of the magnetic means and the carrier means. 3. The drug delivering apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: d) electromagnet means positioned outside the body part for producing a magnetic field which captures the magnetic means; e) positioning means for changing the current in a multicoil electromagnet wherein the electromagnet means moves the magnetic means within the body part to a specific location; f) control means connected to the current changing means for adjusting various currents to the multicoil electromagnet means; and g) visualization means for observing location and movement of the magnetic means and the carrier means. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnetic means has an approximately 2 mm cross-sectional diameter. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the magnetic means has generally a shape like a torpedo. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carrier means is a polymer compound. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the polymer compound is in string form. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carrier means is an implant tubular device which comprises a permeable region at a proximal end of the tubular device and a non-permeable region at a distal end of the tubular device, both of which have distal and proximal ends; and a flange device which is attached to the distal end of the non-permeable region, wherein the permeable region is located within the specific location in the body part and the non-permeable region has a sufficient length so that the flange device can be attached to a surface of the body. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a pump means for pumping the treatment through the non-permeable region into the permeable region. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a membrane implant which can be inserted into the implant tubular device at the flange device into the non-permeable region, the membrane implant having a semi-permeable membrane at a proximal end of the membrane implant, wherein the semi-permeable membrane has a proximal and distal end; a cuff which is attached at the distal end of the semi-permeable membrane; a retrieval tail which has a proximal and distal end, wherein the proximal end is attached to the cuff and the distal end is attached to an infusion port. 11. The apparatus of 10, further comprising a second magnetic means for inserting into the implant tubular device and a connection means for connecting the membrane implant to the second magnetic means and for disengaging the membrane implant from the second magnetic means. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carrier means is a flexible gelatin structure. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the connection means is a heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link. 