An improved wafer transfer and monitoring system is described which utilizes a robotic interface unit. The robotic interface unit includes at least one wafer storage location placed proximate to a wafer stepper unit. A robotic arm attached to the interface unit is moveable in three dimensions to move wafers between the wafer storage location and the wafer stepper unit. The robotic interface unit can be placed between a wafer stepper unit and a coater/developer unit to transfer wafers between each unit and to store and monitor wafers placed upon the units and/or upon the wafer storage location. Accordingly, the robotic interface unit can operate in a stand-alone configuration with the wafer stepper or can be integrated between a wafer stepper and a wafer coater/developer. By using a robotic arm, less contaminates are associated with the exposed and readily cleaned arm. As such, the robotic interface unit and integrated system can be used in class I wafer fabrication areas where cleanliness is important, and the ability to track and monitor wafers is also important.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic interface unit, comprising: a wafer stepper unit adapted for exposing a photoresist covered wafer to a light source configured within said wafer stepper unit; at least one wafer storage location configured on said robotic interface unit located adjacent to a wafer stepper unit; a robotic arm configured on said robotic interface unit and moveable in three dimensions, said robotic arm includes an upper extendable surface adapted for lifting a wafer at a point on the backside surface of the wafer and moving said wafer between said wafer storage location and said wafer stepper unit, said robotic arm further includes: a plurality of optical sensors placed in close proximity to said wafer storage location; an interface network coupled to said wafer stepper unit, said coater/developer unit and said optical sensors; a computer coupled to said interface network; and a robot controller coupled between said computer and said robotic arm for controlling the movement of said robotic arm in response to a program input stored within said computer. 2. The robotic interface unit as recited in claim 1, wherein said computer comprises a memory medium and a keyboard, said keyboard is adapted for allowing access of said input program upon said interface network. 3. The robotic interface unit as recited in claim 1, wherein said computer comprises a memory medium for storing the status of said sensors, said computer further comprises a display adapted for visually displaying the status of said sensors. 4. The robotic interface unit as recited in claim 1, wherein said interface network comprises: a digital logic controller coupled between said wafer stepper unit and said computer; a programmable logic controller coupled to said sensors; and an opto-coupled logic controller coupled between said digital logic controller and said programmable logic controller, said opto-coupled logic controller further coupled between said wafer stepper unit and said coater/developer unit. 5. The robotic interface unit as recited in claim 4, wherein said digital logic controller, said programmable logic controller and said opto-coupled logic controller each having a programmable processor for receiving said program input stored within said computer. 6. A robotic interface system for transferring wafers between a wafer coater/developer unit and a wafer stepper unit, comprising: a wafer coater/developer unit adapted for coating a wafer with photoresist and presenting said coated wafer at a pickup location within said coater/developer unit; a wafer stepper unit adapted for selectively exposing said coated wafer and presenting said exposed wafer at a dipod location within said wafer stepper unit; a robotic interface unit placed adjacent to said wafer stepper unit, said robotic interface unit comprises: a platform upon which at least one discharge cassette and at least one feed cassette are located; first means for moving said coated wafer from said pickup location to said feed cassette; a robotic arm moveable in three dimensions and having an upper extendable surface adapted for lifting said coated wafer at a point on the backside surface of the wafer and moving said coated wafer from said feed cassettes to said wafer stepper unit and for moving said exposed wafer from said dipod location to said discharge cassettes; and second means for moving said exposed wafer from said discharge cassettes to a dropoff location within said wafer coater/developer unit. 7. The robotic interface system as recited in claim 6, wherein said first means comprises means for inserting said coated wafer into said feed cassette from said pickup location remote from said robotic interface unit. 8. The robotic interface system as recited in claim 6, wherein said second means comprises means for transporting said discharge cassette containing said exposed wafer to said dropoff location remote from said robotic interface unit. 9. The robotic interface system as recited in claim 6, wherein said robotic arm comprises: a plurality of optical sensors placed in close proximity to said feed cassette and said discharge cassette; an interface network coupled to said wafer stepper unit, said coater/developer unit and said optical sensors; a computer coupled to said interface network; and a robot controller coupled between said computer and said robotic arm for controlling the movement of said robotic arm in response to a program input stored within said computer. 10. The robotic-interface system as recited in claim 6, wherein said computer comprises a memory medium and a keyboard, said keyboard is adapted for allowing access upon said interface network said program input stored within said medium. 11. The robotic interface system as recited in claim 6, wherein said computer comprises a memory medium for storing the status of said sensors, said computer further comprises a display adapted for visually displaying the status of said sensors. 12. The robotic interface unit as recited in claim 6, wherein said interface network comprises: a digital logic controller coupled between said wafer stepper unit and said computer; a programmable logic controller coupled to said sensors; and an opto-coupled logic controller coupled between said digital logic controller and said programmable logic controller, said opto-coupled logic controller further coupled between said wafer stepper unit and said coater/developer unit. 13. The robotic interface unit as recited in claim 12, wherein said digital logic controller, said programmable logic controller and said opto-coupled logic controller each having a programmable processor for receiving said program input stored within said computer. 14. A method for moving wafers into a wafer stepper unit comprising the steps of: placing a robotic interface unit having an arm adapted for three dimensional movement adjacent to a wafer stepper unit; activating a computer having a stored program movement of said arm; moving said arm in response to said program movement between said wafer stepper unit and a wafer storage location configured upon said robotic interface unit; placing a wafer upon an upper surface of said arm; moving said wafer between said wafer storage location and said wafer stepper in response to movement of said arm; generating location signals corresponding to a location of said wafer within said wafer stepper and said wafer storage location; storing said location signals within said computer; displaying said location signals upon a monitor associated with said computer; activating a keyboard associated with said computer to cause a change in said location signal; storing the change in said location signals within said computer; and displaying the change in said location signals upon a monitor associated with said computer. 15. A method for moving wafers into a wafer stepper unit comprising the steps of: placing a robotic interface unit having an arm adapted for three dimensional movement adjacent to a wafer stepper unit; activating a computer having a stored program movement of said arm; moving said arm in response to said program movement between said wafer stepper unit and a wafer storage location configured upon said robotic interface unit; attaching said robotic interface unit between a wafer coater/developer unit and said wafer stepper unit; and moving said arm between said wafer stepper unit and said wafer coater/developer unit. 