A spray gun for cleaning using a dense fluid such as CO.sub.2, provides snow pellets of controllable size and kinetic energy, the kinetic energy being at a significantly higher level than has heretofore been attainable. A heated or thermal ionized gas is passed at substantial pressure accelerates the snow particles with an enveloping stream of gas. Charge build-up both within the snow delivery tube and in the substrate region is minimized by the use of a grounding helix in the snow delivery tube, in conjunction with the thermal ionized gas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spray gun for spraying a particulate of a dense fluid comprising: a spray gun body having a central bore from a proximal to a distal end along a central axis, and including a gas passageway radially spaced from the central bore; a nozzle coupled to the distal end of the spray gun body, the nozzle having converging walls and a distal end orifice; a snow delivery tube mounted within the central bore of the spray gun body; a grounding helix about the snow delivery tube; means for supplying a heated ionized gas to the gas passageway; and means for supplying an expanded dense fluid particulate stream through the snow delivery tube. 2. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a handle detachably mounted to the spray gun body. 3. The spray gun as set forth in claim 2, further comprising a remote control means for controlling the supply of dense fluid and gas to the spray gun body. 4. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, wherein the snow delivery tube is one to four feet in length. 5. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, wherein the snow delivery tube is 0.015 to 0.25 inches in diameter. 6. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a constricted exit tube disposed between the converging walls and a distal end orifice of the nozzle. 7. The spray gun as set forth in claim 6, wherein the constricted exit tube is 0.5 to 6 feet in length. 8. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a cone attachment for attachment to the nozzle. 9. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a deflector attachment for attachment to the nozzle. 10. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, further comprising tool attachments for attachment to the nozzle. 11. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a vortex nozzle. 12. The spray gun as set forth in claim 1, wherein the means for supplying the expanded dense fluid is adjustable to supply snow in pulses. 13. A spray gun for dense fluids to provide control of both particle size and particle velocity, comprising: a base member; a snow delivery tube mounted in the base member, extending along a central axis and terminating at its distal end in an opening; a flow adjustment body mounted in the base member and axially movable along the central axis with respect thereto, the flow adjustment body including a central bore concentric with the central axis and an interior chamber leading to a distal end, inner nozzle; a thrust adjustment nozzle coupled to the flow adjustment body and axially movable therealong, the thrust adjustment nozzle including distal means defining an outer nozzle therefor; the flow adjustment body including means for providing a gas passageway about the snow delivery tube; means for supplying gas to the gas passageway; and means for supplying dense fluid particles to the snow delivery tube. 14. The spray gun as set forth in claim 13, wherein the base member and flow adjustment body include mating threaded surfaces, and wherein the flow adjustment body and thrust adjustment nozzle include mating threaded surfaces, for axial adjustments relative to each other in the base member. 15. The spray gun as set forth in claim 13, wherein the interior chamber in the inner body comprises means defining an interior chamber larger than the central bore, walls converging in the distal direction and leading to the snow delivery tube and wherein the base member includes means for receiving the means for supplying gas and the means for supplying dense fluid particles. 16. The spray gun as set forth in claim 13, wherein the flow adjustment body includes radial spray guard means, and a seal means including O-ring, coupled to the inner member of the flow adjustment body. 17. A delivery system for use with a spray gun for particles of a dense fluid comprising; a composite supply tube having an outer wall and an interior snow delivery tube spaced apart from the outer wall to provide a gas delivery gap therebetween, the snow delivery tube including a central tube, a grounding helix about the central tube and a protective sheath about the grounding helix; a spray gun having a central axis along which the snow delivery tube extends and having a distal end nozzle; and means coupled to the gas delivery gap for flowing an encompassing flow of accelerating gas about snow particles delivered from the distal end of the snow delivery tube. 18. The delivery system as set forth in claim 17, wherein the device further includes means for adjusting the position of the outer nozzle relative to the open end of the snow delivery tube. 19. The delivery system as set forth in claim 18, wherein the device further includes means defining an interior nozzle spaced apart from the outer nozzle, and means for adjusting the position of the inner nozzle relative to the distal end of the snow delivery tube. 20. A spray gun nozzle configuration for delivery of solid particulates of a dense fluid, comprising: a snow delivery tube disposed along a central axis of the spray gun nozzle and having an open end; an inner nozzle disposed adjacent to the open end of the snow delivery tube, and converging to an inner nozzle opening; and an outer nozzle disposed about the inner nozzle and spaced apart therefrom, the outer nozzle having a nozzle orifice substantially concentric with the central axis wherein the outer nozzle has a diverging terminating portion in one dimension and a substantially uniform opening in the orthogonal dimension. 21. A spray gun nozzle configuration for delivery of solid particulates of a dense fluid, comprising: a snow delivery tube disposed along a central axis of the spray gun nozzle and having an open end; an inner nozzle disposed adjacent to the open end of the snow delivery tube, and converging to an inner nozzle opening wherein the inner nozzle has an outer surface that converges at a selected angle relative to the central axis and the outer nozzle has an inner converging wall surface that converges at a greater angle to the central axis than the outer surface of the inner nozzle; and an outer nozzle disposed about the inner nozzle and spaced apart therefrom, the outer nozzle having a nozzle orifice substantially concentric with the central axis wherein the converging wall of the outer nozzle includes radial eductor apertures therein, and wherein the nozzle terminates at its orifice end in an extended tube. 