A swiftlet breeding facility, for use in creating and harvesting edible bird's nests. The facility includes sub-systems for injecting live insect and worm prey, and water, into an aerial enclosure to provide a feeding system imitative of a natural swiftlet feeding environment.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of cultivating and harvesting bird's nests, said method comprising: providing a production facility comprising a man made cave structure configured to provide a shelter and nesting habitat in an environment emulative and simulative of natural cave conditions in which cave dwelling swiftlets thrive; said production facility comprising: an enclosure; a plurality of steep vertical walls disposed within the enclosure, said vertical walls including a plurality of roosting structures dispersed at various heights on the wall; at least one overhead vertical nesting apparatus disposed within the enclosure, said vertical nesting apparatus including a clinging substrate; wherein, said vertical nesting apparatus a nesting substrate; humidifying means operable to maintain the humidity of the enclosure at about 80%; and air conditioning means for maintaining the temperature within the enclosure in the range of about 26.degree. C. to 28.degree. C.; populating the production facility with breeding swiftlets; maintaining the environment within the enclosure at approximately 80% humidity and 26.degree. C. to 28.degree. C.; maintaining the enclosure in stygian darkness; providing an electronic audio system to emit sounds within the enclosure; and stocking the facility with food for the breeding swiftlets. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein, said nesting substrate is selected from the group consisting of: a nesting board (196) affixed to ceiling (194) or beam (193); a ceiling-floor beam (193); a triangular inclined board (196a); a multi-tiered stair-case structure of inversely stepped nesting board (196b); a dome shaped semi-spherical concavity (370) with a hollow internal structure; a tunnel structure (372); a cylindrical stalactite (375); and a conical stalactite (376). 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein, said clinging substrate is selected from the group consisting of: an indentation (59); a protrusion (60); a saw-toothed claw grip (204); a claw line (245); a claw hole (246); a spiky thorn (377); a nest cup (202); a vertical surface for alighting. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein, said enclosure (17) provides a nesting habitat. 5. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein, said enclosure (17) is selected from the group consisting of: a modified abandoned vacant human dwelling (11); a modified unoccupied multi-storied commercial building (14) suitably adapted with doors and windows shuttered, bricked up and cemented; a customized structure (14); an artificial cave (100); and a multi-storied building (200) specially designed and suitable configured purposely built for breeding swiftlets. 6. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein, said electronic audio system is, selected from a group consisting of: a speaker (211); a tweeter (211); a unit capable of audio data storage-memory, generation and broadcasting; a visual display unit; a television; a home entertainment system; a computerized multi-media musical-audio system capable of data storage-memory, generation, broadcasting and dispay; and a computerized multi-media musical-audio-visual system capable of data storage-memory, generation, broadcasting and display. 