Shingling apparatus for applying standard manufactured shingles in successive steps to a roof comprises a frame having a wheel assembly with air driven motors which move the apparatus in a vertical motion. A hopper holds the shingles, and a shuffle bar moves across the shingles placing one shingle at a time onto forks. The forks then move down to the roof where the shingle is then placed in the designated area and then fastened to the roof with a pneumatic nail gun. After the shingle has been fastened, the forks pull out from under the shingle and then return to the starting position to retrieve the next shingle to be fastened down. As the forks return the apparatus starts to move towards the top of the roof in a vertical direction. It stops when it reaches a sensed, predetermined destination. The apparatus is attached to nylon belts which are fastened at the top of the roof to a linear motion brace which is fastened across the peak of the roof. All movements are accomplished through the use of many sensors and a microprocessing system. The apparatus requires very little attention after the initial setup. The operator simply keeps the hopper filled with shingles and the pneumatic guns filled with fasteners.
Claims What I claim: 1. An apparatus for automatically applying shingles to a roof, said apparatus comprising: (a) a primary main frame comprising a set of idler wheels and a first set of drive wheels mounted on said primary main frame for vertical rolling movement; a second set of drive wheels mounted on said primary main frame for horizontal rolling movement; means to engage said set of idler wheels and said first set of drive wheels with said roof to permit vertical movement of said primary main frame thereover; means to engage said second set of drive wheels with said roof for horizontal movement of said primary main frame thereover; a hopper for holding a stacked supply of shingles therein; means for delivering the top shingle from said stacked supply of shingles from the hopper to the surface of the roof; means for fastening said shingles to said roof, said means for fastening including a supply of fasteners; means for sensing the supply of shingles in said hopper; means for sensing the supply of fasteners in said fastening means; means for sensing the distance traveled by said primary main frame as it moves vertically over said roof; means for sensing the distance traveled by said primary main frame as it moves horizontally over said roof; means for sensing the placement of said top shingle relative to said roof surface after delivery thereto by said delivering means; and a microprocessing system for controlling each engaging means and all movements of said primary main frame over said roof based upon conditions sensed by each sensing means; and (b) means detachably connected to said roof and fastened to said primary main frame for supporting said primary main frame as it moves over said roof; wherein, during a cycle of operation of said apparatus, said microprocessing system responds to signals generated by each sensing means to control said primary main frame such that said primary main frame starts at the bottom of said roof, applies shingles one at a time to said roof as said primary main frame moves vertically upward towards the top of said roof, stops at the top of said roof, moves horizontally to the position at which the next vertical row of shingles is to be applied to said roof, moves vertically downward towards the bottom of said roof, and stops at the bottom of said roof in preparation for applying the next vertical row of shingles thereto. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: braking means to slow said primary main frame as it moves over said roof; means for sensing the speed of said primary main frame as it moves downwardly from the top of said roof; and emergency stopping means for stopping downward movement of said primary main frame if said speed sensing means senses a speed which exceeds a predetermined limit. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said delivering means further comprises: a fork movable between said hopper and said roof surface by a plurality of air cylinders; a shuffle bar adapted to move across said stacked supply of shingles to lift the top shingle from said stack and deliver said top shingle to said fork; and means for holding said top shingle on said fork to ensure proper placement thereon. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said fastening means is mounted on said fork, and said fastening means comprises a plurality of nail guns or staple guns. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said supporting means comprises: a rectangular aluminum bar supported by brackets which are fastened to the top of said roof; a rod fastened to said bar for supporting linear motion bearings which are horizontally movable along said rod; a plurality of belts attached at one end to said primary main frame and at another end to a respective one of said linear motion bearings. 