A robotic arm mechanism provides motion to an end effector via a motor driving a drive pulley. The drive pulley is connected by a belt structure to drive a driven pulley. The motor is mounted to a bracket. The bracket is slidably mounted to a base plate. The bracket is positioned relative to the base plate to provide desired tension in the belt structure. The bracket is fastened to the base plate by a bolt structure which extend from the base plate orthogonally to the motor. A threaded bore extends fully through the bracket from a distal mouth thereof removed from the driven pulley. The bore has an axis which is located generally in a plane which is contiguous with or parallel to the axes of the respective drive and driven pulleys. The bore extends from an opening facing the distal side downwardly to the base plate and towards the axis of the driven pulley. A set screw is engaged with the bore and extends through it such that the screw's tip forcibly engages with the base plate.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. In a robotic arm mechanism providing motion to an end effector, the motion being provided by a motor driving a drive pulley, the drive pulley rotating about a first axis being connected by belt means to drive a driven pulley, the driven pulley having a second axis, the motor being mounted to a bracket, the bracket being slidably mounted to a base plate, the bracket being positioned relative to the base plate to provide desired tension in the belt means, the bracket being fastened to the base plate by bolt means which extend from the base plate orthogonally to the motor, a belt means tensioning improvement, comprising: a threaded bore extending fully through the bracket from a distally facing end thereof removed from the driven pulley to a proximal end thereof, closer to the driven pulley, the bore having a third axis which is located generally in a plane which is contiguous with or parallel to the axes of the respective drive and driven pulleys, the bore extending to the base plate, and towards the axis of the driven pulley; and a set screw having a tip, the screw being engaged with the bore and extending therethrough such that the tip forcibly engages with the base plate. 2. A robotic arm mechanism as set forth in claim 1, which provides R- motion, Z- motion and .theta.- motion to the end effector, each of the motions being provided by a respective R- motor, Z- motor and .theta.- motor driving a respective R- drive pulley, Z- drive pulley and .theta.- drive pulley, the drive pulleys each being connected by a respective R- belt means, Z- belt means and .theta.- belt means to drive a respective R- driven pulley, Z- driven pulley and .theta.- driven pulley, each motor being mounted to a respective bracket, each bracket being slidably mounted to a base plate, the brackets being positioned relative to the base plate to provide desired tension in the respective belt means, each of the brackets being fastened to the base plate by bolt means which extend from the base plate orthogonally to the respective motor, wherein the brackets of each of the motors includes the belt means tensioning improvement of claim 1. 3. A robotic arm mechanism as set forth in claim 2, wherein the base plate includes a recess and the tip of the screw forcibly engages the base plate in the recess. 4. A robotic arm mechanism as set forth in claim 3, wherein the recess extends away from the axes of the drive pulley and the driven pulley. 5. A robotic arm mechanism as set forth in claim 1, wherein the base plate includes a recess and the tip of the screw forcibly engages the base plate in the recess. 6. A robotic arm mechanism as set forth in claim 5, wherein the recess extends away from the axes of the drive pulley and the driven pulley. 