An apparatus for the laser measurement of the shape of an object or foot includes a base, a turntable, a linear slide, and a laser camera which slides on the linear slide. The turntable is attached to the base. The linear slide is attached to the turntable and extends from the turntable. The linear slide moves with the rotation of the turntable. The laser camera moves along and measures a first side and a second side of the object in order to create a three-dimensional profile of the object or foot shape. The apparatus further includes a robotic control and a computer. A method for measuring an object shape with the inventive apparatus provides a profile of the object or foot. The method also provides for the selection of a shoe size based upon the profile generated by the inventive apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for the laser measurement of an object comprising: a base; a rotatable member attached to the base and rotatable about a rotational axis; a linear slide having a first end and a second end, the first end being attached to and extending from the rotatable member, said rotatable member being capable of rotating the linear slide from at least a first position to a second position; and a laser camera slidingly coupled to the linear slide for movement along the linear slide to obtain measurements of the object at a plurality of locations along the slide, wherein the rotatable member rotates the linear slide between the first and second positions to obtain measurements of the object at both positions of the slide. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 which further comprises a stand for resting the object thereupon. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base includes a surface for resting the object thereupon. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base further comprises a rotary fixture disposed thereon, said rotatable member rotating on said rotary fixture about the rotational axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the rotational axis defines a longitudinal reference axis and, when the rotatable member rotates, the linear slide moves in a direction parallel to the longitudinal reference axis, and the laser camera moves along the linear slide in a line which is parallel to the longitudinal reference axis. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein a length of the object is placed for measurement in alignment with the longitudinal reference axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linear slide is attached to the rotatable member by an angle bracket. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linear slide has at least one track disposed between the first end and the second end. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser camera moves along the linear slide for measurement only when the linear slide is in the first or second position. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein measurement occurs while the laser camera is sliding from the second end to the first end of the linear slide. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser camera comprises: a laser head; and an arm attached to said laser head, said arm being slideably coupled to the linear slide for movement along the linear slide. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the arm reciprocates in at least one track disposed between the first and second ends of the linear slide. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the laser head emits laser beams toward the object for measurement of the object. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the laser head comprises: a laser beam transmitter; and a laser beam receiver with a charge coupled device (CCD) receiving element. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 which further comprises: a robotic control for controlling the movement of the laser camera and rotatable member; a computer for signalling the laser camera to move, to emit laser beams intermittently, and to record measurement data; and means for digitally combining the data to create a profile of the object shape. 16. A method for the laser measurement of an object shape with one dimension of the object shape defining a length comprising: positioning an object for measurement; intermittently emitting laser beams from a laser camera as the camera translates along the length of a first side of the object; rotating the laser camera to a second side of the object; intermittently emitting laser beams from a laser camera as the camera translates along the length of a second side of the object; receiving reflected laser beam emissions from the object as data representative of the size and shape of the object at the locations where the laser beams are emitted; and processing the data to obtain a three-dimensional profile of the object. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the laser beam emissions are made at constant intervals along the length of the object. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein aid constant intervals are between about 1/16 and 5/8 of an inch apart. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the object is positioned for measurement with the length of the object being generally aligned with a longitudinal reference axis. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the movement of the laser camera during the laser beam emissions is parallel to the longitudinal reference axis. 21. The method of claim 19, which further comprises: positioning the laser camera at a first side of the object; passing the laser camera by the first side of the object along a line parallel to the longitudinal reference axis; positioning the laser camera at a second side of the object; and passing the laser camera by the second side of the object along a line parallel to the longitudinal reference axis. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the position of each laser beam emission during the first pass is coordinated with the position of each laser beam emission during the second pass, said receiving of data occurring the same direction on either side of the object. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the laser beam emissions define vertical planes of light at each constant interval, each vertical plane being aligned perpendicular to the longitudinal reference axis. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein a plurality of data points is received and recorded along the length of each vertical plane. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the object is a foot. 26. The method of claim 25, which further comprises comparing the processed data with known last dimensions for selecting a shoe size for said foot. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein comparing the processed data with known last dimensions includes comparing each vertical plane of data to a plurality of last dimensions, starting with the smallest last and working upward in size to the largest last, each said vertical plane of data being compared to each last dimension until a last is reached in which less than two points on less than two of the vertical planes exceeds the last dimensions, said last then being selected as the recommended shoe size. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein comparing the processed data with known last dimensions includes comparing each vertical plane of data to a plurality of last dimensions, starting with the largest last and working downward in size to the smallest last, each said vertical plane being compared to each last dimension until a last is reached in which two or more data points on two or more vertical planes exceeds the last dimensions, the next larger last then being selected as the recommended shoe size. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the shoe size for the foot is selected by measuring a length and a width of the foot from the three-dimensional profile of the foot to calculate a shoe size using a conventional Brannock scale. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the length of the foot is measured from the rear of the heel to the tip of the farthest extending toe and the width of the foot is measured across the widest part of the foot. 31. The method of claim 19, wherein the laser camera during each measurement pass moves along a line parallel to said longitudinal reference axis which is about 45.degree. to 55.degree. above a plane upon which the object rests. 32. The method of claim 19, wherein the laser beam emissions occur along a line parallel to the longitudinal reference axis where at least one line is above and offset from at least one side of the longitudinal reference axis. 33. The method of claim 16, wherein the laser beam emissions are vertical planes of light. 34. The method of claim 16, wherein the laser camera moves at a preselected constant speed during measurement. 