Systems and methods for modularization and discretization of real-time robot, telerobot and teleoperation systems using passive, network based control laws. Modules consist of network one-ports and two-ports. Wave variables and position information are passed between modules. The behavior of each module is decomposed into uncoupled linear-time-invariant, and coupled, nonlinear memoryless elements and then are separately discretized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular robotics system comprising at least one manipulator, a plurality of interchangeable and discrete operational modules, and means for passing wave variables between each of said modules and by causing retention of passivity thereby preventing instability in said system caused by computational delays within and between the modules, wherein each of said modules is decomposed into subnetworks containing either linear time invariant uncoupled dynamic or nonlinear coupled memoryless lumped parameter simulation means selected from the group consisting of an inertia simulation means (M), a stiffness simulation means (K), a linear damping simulation means (B), an independent flow source simulation means (v.sub.d), an independent effort source simulation means (f.sub.d), a Jacobian simulation means (J), and a nonlinear damping simulation means (B), said subnetworks being independently discretized; wherein each of said modules comprises: an initialization means; and a synchronous update means mapping module inputs to module outputs via a discrete control equation to implement an action selected from the group consisting of receiving motion commands from a robot input device, receiving and processing readings from a sensor means, controlling motion of a robot by sending commands to a robot control means, implementing a motion constraint; filtering command signals, mapping force and velocity signals from one reference frame to another reference frame, and simulating a dynamic action of a robot component; and wherein each of said modules: requires connections to other modules to complete a functional modular robotics system, is replaceable by one or more modules to implement a different action, is initializable and controllable separately from each other module in the modular robotics system, and receives inputs from neighboring modules and transfers outputs to neighboring modules in an arbitrary sequence, independent of type of said neighboring modules. 2. The system of claim 1 additionally comprising means for passing between said modules position information corresponding to a current position of said manipulator. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said modules is passive and at least one of said modules comprises a subnetwork containing a nonlinear coupled memoryless lumped parameter simulation means. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said modules comprises a scattering operator. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein each of said modules decomposed into subnetworks containing linear time invariant uncoupled dynamic parameter simulation means comprises a scattering operator upon which a bilinear map substitution has been performed. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein each of said modules decomposed into subnetworks containing nonlinear coupled memoryless lumped parameter simulation means comprises a scattering operator comprising a member selected from the group consisting of Jacobians and damping terms. 7. A robotics system comprising at least one manipulator, a plurality of interchangeable and discrete operational modules, means for passing information between said modules comprising means for passing wave variables between each of said modules, means for maintaining stability of said system despite computational delays within and between said modules by causing retention of passivity, and means for bilateral teleoperation of said manipulator, wherein each of said modules comprises: an initialization means; and a synchronous update means mapping module inputs to module outputs via a discrete control equation to implement an action selected from the group consisting of receiving motion commands from a robot input device, receiving and processing readings from a sensor means, controlling motion of a robot by sending commands to a robot control means, implementing a motion constraint; filtering command signals, mapping force and velocity signals from one reference frame to another reference frame, and simulating a dynamic action of a robot component; and wherein each of said module: requires connections to other modules to complete a functional modular robotics system, is replaceable by one or more modules to implement a different action, is initializable and controllable separately from each other module in the modular robotics system, and receives inputs from neighboring modules and transfers outputs to neighboring modules in an arbitrary sequence, independent of the type of said neighboring modules. 8. The system of claim 7 additionally comprising means for passing between said modules position information corresponding to a current position of said manipulator. 9. The system of claim 7 wherein each of said modules is passive. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein each of said modules comprises a scattering operator. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein one or more of said modules comprises a linear time invariant uncoupled dynamic simulation means and a scattering operator upon which a bilenear map substitution has been performed. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein one or more of said modules comprise a nonlinear coupled memoryless simulation means and a scattering operator comprising a member selected from the group consisting of Jacobian and damping terms. 13. A method for controlling a modular robotics system comprising at least one manipulator, the method comprising the steps of: a) initializing a plurality of interchangeable and discrete operational modules, wherein each of the modules comprises: an initialization procedure; and a synchronous update procedure mapping module inputs to module outputs via a discrete control equation to implement an action selected from the group consisting of receiving motion commands from a robot input device, receiving and processing readings from a sensor means; controlling motion of a robot by sending commands to a robot control means, implementing a motion constraint, filtering command signals; mapping force and velocity signals from one reference frame to another reference frame, and simulating a dynamic action of a robot component; and wherein each of the modules: requires connections to other modules to complete a functional modular robotics system is replaceable by one or more modules to implement a different action, is initializable and controllable separately from each other module in the modular robotics system, and receives inputs from neighboring modules and transfers outputs to neighboring modules in an arbitrary sequence, independent of the type of the neighboring module; b) decomposing the modules into subnetworks containing either linear time invariant uncoupled dynamic or nonlinear coupled memoryless lumped parameter simulation procedures selected from the group consisting of an inertia simulation procedure (M), a stiffness simulation procedure (K), a linear damping simulation procedure (B), an independent flow source simulation procedure (v.sub.d), an independent effort source simulation procedure (f.sub.d), a Jacobian simulation procedure (J), and a nonlinear damping simulation procedure (B), the subnetworks being independently discretized; and c) passing wave variables between each of the modules and by causing retention of passivity thereby preventing instability in the system caused by computational delays within and between the modules. 14. The method of claim 13 additionally comprising the step of passing between the modules position information corresponding to a current position of the manipulator. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of initializing a plurality of modules comprises initializing modules all of which are passive, at least one of which is decomposed into a subnetwork containing a nonlinear coupled memoryless lumped parameter simulation procedure. 16. The method of claim 13 additionally comprising the step of incorporating into each of the modules a scattering operator. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the incorporating step comprises the step of incorporating into each of the modules decomposed into subnetworks containing linear time invariant uncoupled dynamic lumped parameter simulation procedures a scattering operator upon which a bilinear map substitution has been performed. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the incorporating step comprises the step of incorporating into each of the modules decomposed into subnetworks containing nonlinear coupled memoryless lumped parameter simulation procedures a scattering operator comprising a member selected from the group consisting of Jacobians and damping terms. 19. A method of controlling a robotics system comprising at least one manipulator, the method comprising the steps of: a) initializing a plurality of interchangeable and discrete operational modules to the system, wherein each of the modules comprises: an initialization procedure; and a synchronous update procedure mapping module inputs to module outputs via a discrete control equation to implement an action selected from the group consisting of receiving motion commands from a robot input device, receiving and processing readings from a sensor means; controlling motion of a robot by sending commands to a robot control means; implementing a motion constraint, filtering command signals; mapping force and velocity signals from one reference frame to another reference frame; and simulating a dynamic action of a robot component, and wherein each of said modules: requires connections to other modules to complete a functional modular robotics system, is replaceable by one or more modules to implement a different action, is initializable and controllable separately from each other module in the modular robotics system, and receives inputs from neighboring modules and transfers outputs to neighboring modules in an arbitrary sequence, independent of the type of the neighboring modules; b) passing information between the modules by passing wave variables between each of the modules and by retention of passivity thereby maintaining stability of the system despite computational delays within and between the modules; and c) controlling movements of the manipulator by bilateral teleoperation. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of passing information between the modules additionally comprises the step of passing between the modules position information corresponding to a current position of the manipulator. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of initializing a plurality of modules comprises initializing modules all of which are passive. 22. The method of claim 19 additionally comprising the step of incorporating into each of the modules a scattering operator. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the incorporating step comprises the step of incorporating into each of the modules comprising a linear time invariant uncoupled dynamic simulation procedure a scattering operator upon which a bilinear map substitution has been performed. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the incorporating step comprises the step of incorporating into each of the modules comprising a nonlinear coupled memoryless simulation procedure a scattering operator comprising a member selected from the group consisting of Jacobians and damping terms. 