A three dimensional object under test is measured to obtain shape data representing a shape of the three dimensional object. The object under test is measured using, for example, an ultrasonic probe LED to obtain defect test data. A processing mechanism forms a three-dimensional graphic image of a defect zone from the defect test data and a three-dimensional graphic image of the object under test from the shape data. A display mechanism is provided for displaying the three-dimensional graphic image of the defect zone superimposed over the three-dimensional graphic image of the object under test.
Claims We claim: 1. An ultrasonic defect testing method for testing an object having a three-dimensional curved surface comprising the steps of: (a) measuring a three-dimensional shape of the object under test to acquire shape data representing the shape thereof; (b) measuring a defect of the object under test by three-dimensionally scanning the object with an ultrasonic probe to obtain defect test data representing a defect testing result; (c) monitoring the ultrasonic probe to contactlessly measure a three-dimensional position of the ultrasonic probe to obtain positional information of the ultrasonic probe; and (d) displaying on a display screen a combined image in which, by utilizing the positional information of the ultrasonic probe, a three-dimensional graphic image of a defect zone prepared using the defect test data is superimposed on a three-dimensional graphic image of the object under test prepared using the shape data. 2. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said step (a), the shape data is acquired by measuring an outer shape of the object under test. 3. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said step (a), the shape data is acquired by measuring an inner shape of the object under test. 4. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said step (a), the shape data is acquired by measuring inner and outer shapes of the object under test. 5. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1 wherein a method of measurement suitable for obtaining the defect test data in said step (b) is determined in accordance with the measurement in said step (a). 6. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 5, wherein at least one of an approach position, a scan direction, a scan velocity, a refraction angle, a direction, an operating frequency and a dimension of a resonator of the ultrasonic probe is selected as the defect location method. 7. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1 wherein, in said step (d), multicolor is used to display the combined image. 8. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1, wherein, in said step (a), the shape data is obtained by measuring an outer shape of the object under test by touch sensor means. 9. An ultrasonic testing method according to claim 1, wherein said step (a) includes the sub-steps of: (a1) scanning an outer surface of the three-dimensional shape of the object under test with a scanner having the ultrasonic probe having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted thereon; and (a2) detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner with a position sensitive device (PSD) or charge coupled device (CCD) camera and calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to obtain the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test. 10. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 9, wherein the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test by use of the LED's and the defect test data of the object under test with the ultrasonic probe are simultaneously obtained through the scan of the scanner. 11. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1, wherein said step (a) includes the substeps of: (a1) scanning an outer surface of the three-dimensional shape of the object under test with a scanner having the ultrasonic probe having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted thereon; (a2) detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner with a position sensitive device (PSD) or charge coupled device (CCD) camera and calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to obtain the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test; and (a3) obtaining the shape data of an inner surface of the object under test by use of the ultrasonic probe for the distance measurement. 12. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 11, wherein the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test by using the LED's and the defect test data of the object under test with the ultrasonic probe are simultaneously obtained through the scan of the scanner. 13. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 1, wherein said step (a) includes the substeps of: (a1) scanning an outer surface and an inner surface of the three-dimensional shape of the object under test with a scanner having the ultrasonic probe having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted thereon; and (a2) detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner with a position sensitive device (PSD) of a charge coupled device (CCD) camera and calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to obtain the shape of the outer surface and the inner surface of the object under test. 14. An ultrasonic defect testing method for an object having a three-dimensional curved surface, comprising the steps of: (a) scanning the object under test with a scanner having an ultrasonic probe having at least three LED's mounted thereon; (b) detecting the at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) of the scanner with a position sensitive device (PSD) or charge coupled device (CCD) camera and measuring a three-dimensional shape of the object under test to obtain shape data representing a shape thereof; (c) testing a defect of the object under test by use of the ultrasonic probe of the scanner to obtain defect test data representing a defect testing result; and (d) three-dimensionally determining a position of a defect zone in the object under test on the basis of the shape data and the defect test data. 15. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 14, wherein a three-dimensional positional relationship between the object under test and the defect zone obtained in said step (d) is three-dimensionally graphically displayed on a display screen. 16. An ultrasonic defect testing method for testing an object having a three-dimensional curved surface comprising the steps of: (a) reading shape data representing a three-dimensional shape of the object under test from a storage; (b) examining the object under test for a defect by three-dimensionally scanning the object with an ultrasonic probe to obtain defect data representing a defect test result; (c) monitoring the ultrasonic probe to contactlessly measure a three-dimensional position of the ultrasonic probe, to obtain positional information of the ultrasonic probe; and (d) three-dimensionally determining a position of a defect zone in the object under test on the basis of the shape data and the defect test data, by utilizing the positional information of the ultrasonic probe. 17. An ultrasonic defect testing method according to claim 16, wherein said step (b) includes the sub-steps of: (b1) scanning an outer surface of the three-dimensional shape of the object under test with a scanner including the ultrasonic probe and at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted on the scanner; (b2) detecting projected lights from the LED's of the scanner with a position sensitive device (PSD) or charge coupled device (CCD) camera and calculating a position and a posture of an end of the ultrasonic probe to obtain positions of the ultrasonic probe with respect to the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test; and (b3) correlating the defect test data to the position of the scanner on the object under test. 18. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus for an object having a three-dimensional curved surface, comprising: means for measuring a three-dimensional shape of the object under test to obtain shape data representing a shape thereof; an ultrasonic probe for measuring the object under test to obtain defect test data representing a defect testing result by three-dimensionally scanning the object with the ultrasonic probe; means for monitoring the ultrasonic probe to contactlessly measure a three-dimensional position of the ultrasonic probe, to thereby obtain positional information of the ultrasonic probe; means for preparing combined image information by utilizing the positional information of the ultrasonic probe to superimpose a three-dimensional graphic image of a defect zone prepared on the basis of the defect test data on a three-dimensional graphic image of the object under test prepared on the basis of the shape data; and means for displaying a combined image on a display screen in accordance with the combined image information. 19. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said means for obtaining the shape data includes shape data of at least one of an outer surface and an inner surface of the object under test. 20. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising means for determining a defect testing method for the ultrasonic probe in accordance with the shape data. 21. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 20, wherein at least one of an approach position, a scan direction, a scan velocity, a refraction angle, a direction, an operating frequency and a dimension of a resonator of the ultrasonic probe is selected as the defect testing method. 22. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said means for preparing the combined image information permits multi-color display of the combined image. 23. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said means for obtaining the shape data includes a scanner having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted on the ultrasonic probe, means for scanning a three-dimensional outer surface of the object under test with the scanner, means for detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner, and means for calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to obtain the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test. 24. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test obtained using the LED's and the defect test data of the object under test obtained using the ultrasonic probe are simultaneously obtained through the scan of the scanner. 25. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said means for obtaining the shape data includes a scanner having at least three LED's mounted on the ultrasonic probe, means for scanning a three-dimensional outer surface of the object under test with the scanner, means for detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner means for calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to obtain the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test, and means for obtaining shape data of an inner surface of the object under test by use of the ultrasonic probe for distance measurement. 26. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 25, wherein the shape data of the outer surface of the object under test obtained using the LED's and the shape data of the inner surface of the object under test obtained using the ultrasonic probe are simultaneously obtained through the scan of the scanner. 27. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said means for obtaining the shape data includes a scanner having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted on the ultrasonic probe, means for scanning three-dimensional outer surface and inner surface of the object under test with the scanner, means for detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner, and means for calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to obtain the shape data of the outer surface and the inner surface of the object under test. 28. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus for an object having a three-dimensional curved surface, comprising: a scanner having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted on an ultrasonic probe; means for scanning the object under test by said scanner; means for detecting projected lights from the at least three LED's of said scanner; means for measuring a three-dimensional shape of the object under test on the basis of the output from said detection means to obtain shape data representing the shape thereof; means for testing a defect of the object under test by use of the ultrasonic probe of said scanner to obtain defect test data representing a defect test result; and means for three-dimensionally determining a position of a defect zone in the object under test on the basis of the shape data and the defect test data. 29. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 28, further comprising display means for three-dimensionally graphically displaying on a display screen a three-dimensional positional relationship between the object under test and the defect zone in response to the output from said means for determining the position. 30. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus for an object having a three-dimensional curved surface, comprising: means for reading shape data representing a three-dimensional shape of the object under test from a storage; an ultrasonic probe; means for testing a defect of the object under test by three-dimensionally scanning the object with the ultrasonic probe to obtain defect test data representing a defect test result; means for monitoring the ultrasonic probe to contactlessly measure a three-dimensional position of the ultrasonic probe, to thereby obtain positional information of the ultrasonic probe; and means for three-dimensionally determining a position of the defect zone in the object under test on the basis of the shape data and the defect test data, by utilizing the positional information of the ultrasonic probe. 31. An ultrasonic defect testing apparatus according to claim 30 further comprising: a scanner having at least three light emitting diodes (LED's) mounted on the ultrasonic probe; means for scanning an outer surface of the three-dimensional shape of the object under test with said scanner; means for detecting lights projected by the LED's of the scanner; means for calculating a position and a posture of an end of the probe to determine the position of the scanner at the input shape data; and means for correlating the defect test data to the position of the scanner on the object under test. 