Multilayer circuit assemblies are made by stacking circuit panels having contacts on their top surfaces, through conductors extending between top and bottom surfaces and terminals connected to the bottom end of each through conductor. The terminals and contacts are arranged so that when the panels are stacked the terminals on the bottom of one panel are in alignment with the contacts on the top surface of the immediately underlying panel. The panels are selectively treated on their top and/or bottom surfaces so as to selectively disconnect or connect each contact to a terminal on the bottom surface of the same panel. For example, the top surface of the panel may be selectively etched to disconnect a contact from one through conductor and hence from the associated terminal. The aligned terminals and contacts are nonselectively connected to one another at each interface so that wherever a terminal and contact on adjacent panels are aligned with one another there are connected to one another. This forms composite vertical conductors extending through a plurality of the panels. The selective treatment of the panel top and bottom surfaces provides selective interruptions in the vertical conductors. A circuit panel precursor having the through conductors and methods of making the same are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making a multilayer circuit comprising the steps of: (a) providing a plurality of circuit panels, each having a dielectric body with top and bottom surfaces, through conductors extending between such surfaces and terminals on said bottom surfaces, at least some of the terminals on the bottom surface of each panel being connected to through conductors of such panel; (b) customizing at least one of said top surfaces to provide continuous conductive paths on such customized surface from selected through conductors to contacts at selected locations of a regular pattern on such customized surface, so that through conductors other than the selected through conductors are not connected to contacts at locations of such regular pattern; (c) after said customizing step, stacking said panels to form interfaces between the top and bottom surfaces of adjacent panels, whereby at least one said interface includes a customized top surface; and (d) forming composite vertical conductors in said stacked panels including the through conductors of said panels and said conductive paths on said customized top surfaces, the step of forming the composite vertical conductors including the step of nonselectively connecting the contacts at locations of the regular pattern on at least one said customized top surface to the terminals on the bottom surface of the adjacent panel at an interface, whereby at least some of the composite vertical conductors are interrupted at one or more customized top surfaces. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said providing and stacking steps are performed so that at least one interface including a customized top surface, the terminals on the bottom surface on the adjacent panel are disposed in a regular pattern aligned with the regular pattern on the customized top surface, and wherein the nonselective connecting step includes the step of bonding the aligned contacts and terminals to one another. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said stacking step is performed so that at least one interface including a customized top surface, an interposer with discrete conductive elements is disposed between the adjacent panels, with discrete conductive elements of the interposer disposed in a regular pattern aligned with the regular pattern on such customized top surface, said nonselective connecting step including the step of connecting the conductive elements of each said interposer to the contacts and terminals. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the said conductive elements of said interposers include a conductive bonding material and wherein said nonselective connecting step includes the step of activating said conductive bonding material. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said customizing step is conducted so that said contacts are provided at only some locations of the regular pattern on each customized top surface. 6. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said customizing step is conducted so that contacts are provided at all locations of the regular pattern on each customized top surface but less than all of the contacts on each customized top surface of a panel are connected to through conductors of such panel. 7. A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein said stacking step is performed so that the stacked panels define a plurality of interfaces including said customized top surfaces, and so that the regular patterns of the contacts at different interfaces are identical to one another but offset from one another in a first horizontal direction, whereby said composite vertical conductors extend in zigzag patterns through said stacked panels with vertical portions and horizontal portions extending in said first horizontal direction. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said contacts on said customized top surfaces are offset from said through conductors in said first horizontal direction. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein on at least some of said panels, said terminals are disposed at bottom ends of said through conductors and wherein, at least one interface including a customized top surface, the terminals and through conductors of the adjacent panel are aligned with the regular pattern of the customized top surface. 10. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein each said regular pattern is a rectilinear grid extending in said first horizontal direction and in a second horizontal direction perpendicular to said first horizontal direction. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein further comprising the step of selectively connecting through conductors of at least some of said panels to surface conductors extending along at least some of the top and bottom surfaces of such panels. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said surface conductors extend in said first and second horizontal directions. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein all of said terminals on the bottom surface of each said panel are connected to through conductors of such panel, whereby said nonselective connecting step will connect all of said contacts on each customized top surface to the through conductors of the adjacent panel. 