A seam tracking robotic drilling machine (10) is disclosed which is capable of moving a drill head along the seam (12) between abutting skin panels (16, 18) to drill a plurality of precisely positioned holes (18) through the panel. The machine (10) includes a perimeter support frame (20) which mounts a platform (36) for rotation about an axis (38) generally perpendicular the panels to be drilled. The platform supports a carriage (48) for movement along an axis 50 parallel the surface of the panels and in the direction of the seam while the carriage (48) supports an inner carriage (62) for movement along axis 60 perpendicular thereto. A drill head (74) is mounted on the inner carriage (62). A series of variable height vacuum cup assemblies (22-28) support the perimeter support frame (20). A similar series of variable height vacuum cup assemblies (66-72) support the inner carriage (62). When one set of vacuum cup assemblies is activated for attachment to the panels, the other set is deactuated to allow the machine to walk along the seam.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic carriage for moving along a predetermined path over a surface without the use of rails, comprising: an inner member; an outer member; an intermediate member; a plurality of selectively actuatable supports actuatable from an actuated state adhering to a surface and a de-actuated state released from the surface; at least a first one of said selectively actuatable supports mounted on said outer member; a first actuator connected between the outer member and the intermediate member for moving the members relative to each other, the robotic carriage further comprising a second actuator mounted between the intermediate member and the inner member for moving the inner member and intermediate member relative each other; and a controller for actuating said first one of said selectively actuatable supports and moving the inner member relative to the first one of said selectively actuatable supports to reposition the inner member on the surface, and subsequently de-actuating the first one of said selectively actuatable supports and moving said outer member and said first one of said selectively actuatable supports relative to the inner member. 2. A robotic carriage for moving along a predetermined path over a surface without the use of rails, comprising: a platform; a plurality of selectively actuatable supports mounted on said platform actuatable from an actuated state adhering to a surface and a de-actuated state released from a surface; at least a first one of said selectively actuatable supports moveable relative to the platform; a controller for actuating said first one of said selectively actuatable supports and moving the platform relative to the first one of said selectively actuatable supports to reposition the platform on the surface, and subsequently de-actuating said first one of said selectively actuatable supports and moving said first one of said selectively actuatable supports relative to the platform; and a drill head mounted on said platform for drilling a hole through the surface. 3. A robotic carriage for moving over a surface without the use of rails, comprising: a first carriage having a frame, a first plurality of selectively actuatable supports extending from said frame so as to support said frame with respect to said surface, a platform positioned in said frame so as to be in a desired relationship to said surface, a first drive for selectively rotating said platform with respect to said frame about a rotational axis; a second carriage movably mounted to said platform for movement with respect to said platform, a second drive for selectively providing relative movement between said second carriage and said platform; a third carriage movably mounted to said second carriage for movement with respect to said second carriage, a second plurality of selected actuatable supports extending from said third carriage so as to support said third carriage with respect to said surface, and a third drive for selectively providing relative movement between said third carriage and said second carriage; and a controller for deactuating one of said first and second plurality of selectively actuatable supports while the other of said first and second plurality of selectively actuatable supports is actuated and for actuating said third drive to effect relative movement between said third carriage and said second carriage to thereby reposition one of said first and third carriages with respect to the other of said first and third carriages while the plurality of selectively actuatable supports on the carriage being repositioned are deactuated. 4. The robotic carriage in accordance with claim 3 further comprising a sensor for sensing the orientation of said third carriage with respect to a desired line of travel, and a controller for actuating said first and second drives for positioning said third carriage in the desired orientation with respect to said desired line of travel. 5. A robotic carriage in accordance with claim 4 further comprising a drill spindle unit mounted on said third carriage and a controller for actuating said drill spindle unit to drill holes in said surface at predetermined positions located generally along said desired line of travel. 6. A robotic carriage in accordance with claim 5 wherein said drill spindle unit is mounted on said third carriage by a gimbal, and further comprising means for adjusting the position of said gimbal along first and second axes. 7. A robotic carriage in accordance with claim 3 further comprising a sensor for determining the distance or angular orientation between said third carriage and the surface and for adjusting the height of at least one of the first plurality of selectively actuatable supports so as to adjust the distance between said third carriage and said surface. 8. A robotic carriage for moving over a surface without the use of rails for drilling holes through the surface, comprising: a first carriage having a frame, a first plurality of selectively actuatable supports extending from the frame to support the frame on the surface, a platform positioned on the frame for pivotal motion relative to the frame about a first axis, and a first drive for selectively pivoting the platform with respect to the frame about the first axis; a second carriage mounted to said platform for movement with respect to said platform along a second axis, the second axis being perpendicular to the first axis, a second drive for selectively moving the second carriage relative to the platform; a third carriage mounted to the second carriage for movement with respect to the second carriage along a third axis, the third axis being perpendicular to both the first and second axes, a second plurality of selectively actuatable supports extending from said third carriage to support the third carriage on the surface and a third drive for selectively moving the third carriage relative to the second carriage along the third axis; a controller for deactuating one of said first and second plurality of selectively actuatable supports while the other of said first and second plurality of selectively actuatable supports is actuated and for actuating said third drive to effect relative movement between said third carriage and said second carriage to thereby reposition one of said first and third carriages with respect to the other of said first and third carriages while the plurality of selectively actuatable supports on the carriage being repositioned are deactuated; and a drill spindle unit mounted on one of said carriages for drilling holes in the surface. 9. The robotic carriage of claim 8 wherein each of said plurality of selectively actuatable supports include a vacuum cup for vacuum attachment to the surface. 10. The robotic carriage of claim 8 wherein the drill spindle unit is mounted on the third carriage by a gimbal, and further comprises means for adjusting the position of the gimbal along first and second axes. 11. The robotic carriage of claim 8 wherein the platform has an aperture therein and first and second rails on opposite sides of the aperture, the second carriage supported by and moving along said first and second rails. 12. The robotic carriage of claim 8 wherein the second carriage has an aperture therethrough and first and second rails formed on opposite sides of the aperture, said third carriage being supported on and guided by the first and second rails. 13. A method for moving a robotic carriage over a surface without the use of rails, comprising: actuating a first plurality of selectively actuatable supports extending from a first carriage to support the first carriage on the surface, the first carriage having a frame, a platform positioned in the frame and a first drive for selectively rotating the platform with respect to the frame about a rotational axis; deactuating a second plurality of selectively actuatable supports extending from a third carriage, the third carriage movable relative to a second carriage, the second carriage movable relative to the first carriage; selectively moving the second or third carriage relative to the first carriage; actuating the second plurality of selectively actuatable supports to support the third carriage on the surface and deactuating the first plurality of selectively actuatable supports to remove support of the first carriage from the surface; and selectively moving the first or second carriage relative to the third carriage. 14. The method of claim 13 comprising the step of drilling a hole through the surface at a predetermined location with a drill mounted on one of the carriages. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of actuating the selectively actuatable supports by drawing a vacuum in a vacuum cup associated with each support to adhere the support to the surface. 