A computer-controlled fluid manipulation and analysis apparatus for chemical, biochemical and clinical analysis, sample preparation, and microscale chemical and biochemical synthesis, having one or more stream selection hubs with multiple ports through which microliter volumes of multiple fluid streams may be accessed, stacked, mixed and otherwise transferred by two or more cooperant pumping systems in a highly repeatable and fully software programmable manner. The inherent or resulting properties of said fluids may be automatically recorded via one or more appropriate electronic detectors and data recording systems. Systems comprised of two or more hubs exhibit higher properties of a flow network, and allow more than one fluid segment to be processed simultaneously. Bi-directional flow may occur in each inter-hub connection, and a plurality of possible transport routes can exist between hubs. This leads to enhanced flexibility in sequential processing of each fluid segment.
Claims We claim: 1. Flow analysis network apparatus comprising at least one multiport valve having a plurality of ports; each of said ports adapted to receive therethrough a selected fluid; fluid stacking means wherein a plurality of selected fluids is stacked in predetermined order connected with said valve; fluid contacting zones wherein at least two of said selected fluids make contact or combine; first mixing means wherein at least two of said selected fluids are capable of being mixed in a single stream of said selected fluids; at least one conduit connected with said ports and said fluid stacking means, whereby selected fluids are selectively transferred between said ports and said fluid stacking means; pumping means for effecting passage of said selected fluids through said valve, said conduit and said fluid stacking means; control means to selectively control passage of selected fluids though said valve; port selection means connected with said control means; sensing means connected with said control means and said valve; the improvement comprising said fluid stacking means comprising at least a first fluid stacking means wherein a first plurality of said zones of selected fluids is stacked in pre-determined order, a second fluid stacking means wherein a second plurality of said zones of selected fluids is stacked in pre-determined order, said pumping means comprising at least two independent bi-directional pumps, said control means capable of controlling flow of selected fluids through more than one port of said multiport valve simultaneously, wherein said multiport valve is a non-rotary valve, computer means to control passage of selected fluids through said multiport valve and second mixing means wherein said first and second pluralities of stacked zones are contacted or mixed into a single stream or a selected fluid is contacted or mixed with a plurality of stacked zones into a single stream. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 further comprising a second fluid contact zone wherein selected fluids from at least said first plurality of zones and said second plurality of zones received from said stacking means make contact. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said pumping means comprises at least a first pump for effecting passage of said selected fluids through said first fluid contact zone and a second pump for effecting passage of said selected fluids through said second fluid contact zone. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said conduit is connected with each of said ports to allow selected fluids to be selectively transferred between at least two of said ports. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 2 wherein said second fluid contact zone is connected with at least said first fluid stacking means and said second fluid stacking means to operably effect confluence of fluid streams from at least said first and said second fluid stacking means. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said fluid stacking means comprises said fluid contact zone. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said second fluid contact zone operably receives at least said first fluid accessed via a selected said port with at least one fluid connected with at least one of said stacking means. 8. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein at least said first fluid stacking means and said second fluid stacking means are positioned in parallel, each of said stacking means connected with different said ports of said valve and in common with said first pumping means and wherein zones of selected fluids are placed in predetermined order and held for a period of time. 9. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said multiport valve is adapted to receive, simultaneously, selected fluid flows therethrough from at least two of said ports. 10. Flow analysis network apparatus comprising a first multiport valve having a plurality of first ports, wherein said first multiport valve is a non-rotary valve; a second multiport valve having a plurality of second ports, wherein said second multiport valve is a non-rotary valve; each of said first ports and said second ports adapted to receive therethrough a selected fluid; fluid stacking means wherein a first plurality of selected fluids is stacked in predetermined order connected with said first multiport valve; first mixing means wherein at least two of said selected fluids are capable of being mixed in a single stream of said selected fluids; first conduit connected with said first ports and said second ports, whereby selected fluids are selectively transferred to selected first ports and selected second ports; first control means connected with said first valve to selectively control passage of selected fluids therethrough, wherein said first control means is capable of controlling flow of selected fluids through more than one port of said first valve simultaneously; second control means connected with said second valve to selectively control passage of selected fluids therethrough, wherein said second control means is capable of controlling flow of selected fluids through more than one port of said second valve simultaneously; pumping means for effecting passage of said selected fluids through said conduit, wherein said pumping means comprises at least two independent bi-directional pumps; sensing means connected with said first and second control means; selection means connected with said first and second control means; computer means to control passage of selected fluids through said multiport valves; and second mixing means wherein said first plurality of stacked fluids is contacted or mixed with a selected fluid or a second plurality of stacked fluids into a single stream. 11. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 further comprising a third multiport valve having a plurality of third ports, each of said third ports being adapted to receive therethrough a selected fluid and third fluid stacking means wherein a third plurality of selected fluids is stacked in predetermined order connected with said third valve; second conduit connected with said pumping means, said first ports, said second ports and said third ports, whereby selected fluids are selectively transferred to a selected first port, selected second port and selected third port; and third control means connected with said sensing means, said selection means and said third valve to selectively control passage of selected fluids through said third valve. 12. Apparatus as defined in claim 11 wherein said first multiport valve, said second multiport valve and said third multiport valve are in direct contact one with each other through said first conduit and said second conduit. 13. Flow analysis network apparatus comprising a plurality of multiport valves wherein each of said valves has a determined plurality of ports adapted to receive selected fluids therethrough and wherein said multiport valves are non-rotary valves and fluid stacking means wherein a first plurality of selected fluids is stacked in predetermined order connected with said valves; first mixing means wherein at least two of said selected fluids are capable of being mixed in a single stream of said selected fluids; conduits connected with at least two of said multiport valves whereby selected fluids are selectively transferred to selected ports of said at least two of said multiport valves; control means connected with said valves to selectively control passage of selected fluids therethrough, wherein said control means is capable of controlling flow of selected fluids through more than one port of said multiport valves simultaneously; pumping means for effecting passage of said selected fluids through said conduits, wherein said pumping means comprises at least two independent bi-directional pumps; sensing means connected with said control means; selection means connected with said control means; computer means to control passage of selected fluids through said multiport valves; and second mixing means wherein said first plurality of stacked fluids is contacted or mixed with a selected fluid or a second plurality of stacked fluids into a single stream. 14. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 further comprising one or more processing means connected with said conduit selected from the group consisting of sampling, fluid parameter measuring, fluid mixing, detecting, reacting, diluting, digesting, solvent extracting, distilling, heating, irradiating, sonicating, solventing and diffusing means. 15. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 further comprising one or more processing means connected with said conduit selected from the group consisting of sampling, fluid parameter measuring, fluid mixing, detecting, reacting, diluting, digesting, solvent extracting, distilling, heating, irradiating, sonicating, solventing and diffusing means. 16. Apparatus as defined in claim 13 further comprising one or more processing means connected with said conduits selected from the group consisting of sampling, fluid parameter measuring, fluid mixing, detecting, reacting, diluting, digesting, solvent extracting, distilling, heating, irradiating, sonicating, solventing and diffusing means. 17. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein said second plurality of selected fluids is stacked in predetermined order connected with said second multiport valve. 18. Apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein at least one of said first multiport valve and said second multiport valve is adapted to receive, simultaneously, selected fluid flows therethrough from at least two of said first ports and at least two of said second ports, respectively. 19. Apparatus as defined in claim 13 wherein at least one of said multiport valves is adapted to receive, simultaneously, selected fluid flows therethrough from at least two of said ports. 20. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein each of said ports is provided with a mini-valve. 21. Apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein each of said ports is provided with a mini-valve. 22. Apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein each of said ports is provided with a mini-valve. 23. Apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein each of said ports is provided with a mini-valve. 