Microprocessor controlled isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system for robotic drying of wafer cassettes containing wafers or substrates. A wetted wafer or substrate is robotically placed into a virgin isopropyl alcohol vapor zone. The wetted surface and free-moving contaminants are replaced by a layer of isopropyl alcohol (IPA) which condenses on the surface. The dryer then robotically moves the IPA coated wafer or substrate into an upper cooling zone causing the isopropyl alcohol layer to flash off of the substrate surface, leaving the surface completely dry to a molecular level. IPA vapors are heated at the bottom of a quartz tank and maintained as a vapor by electric heating panels surrounding the quartz tank. A stainless steel cooling jacket surrounds the upper outer region of the quartz tank and between the quartz tank, and a stainless steel containment tank along with a cooling coil delineates a cooling zone about the upper region of the quartz tank where the IPA is flash-cooled from the surface of the substrate. A saucer with opposing curved sections provides for improved vapor blanket generation and regeneration. Cooling coil catch trays catch IPA condensate for channeling to the side walls. The IPA condensate rolls down the walls and is heated and returned in a vapor state or to the sump at an elevated temperature.
Claims I claim: 1. Isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system comprising: a. stainless steel housing; b. a heater means in a base of said housing; c. quartz tank mounted in said housing on said heater means; d. at least one independent side wall heater means positioned on a side wall of said quartz tank; e. a quartz saucer in a base of said quartz tank; f. a cooling coil adjacent an upper portion of said quartz tank; and, g. cooling coil catch tray means positioned below said cooling coils. 2. System of claim 1 wherein said side wall heater means includes four side wall heaters, one on each of said side walls of said tank means. 3. System of claim 1 wherein said heater means in a base of said housing includes a plurality of heater rods. 4. System of claim 1 including robotic compatible access doors. 5. In combination, a saucer means, a quartz tank for IPA vapor dryer and a heating means for a vapor dryer for processing semiconductor wafers or substrates comprising: a. a quartz tank; b. a saucer means including opposing open channeled members with closed ends providing for IPA vapor passage; c. a base heating means for generating an IPA vapor; and, d. at least one independent heater means on a side wall of said quartz tank for maintaining said IPA vapor. 6. An isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system comprising: a. a housing; b. a quartz tank mounted in the housing having side walls; c. a base heater mounted in the housing below the tank for heating isopropyl alcohol in the tank; d. a cooling coil mounted in the housing adjacent an upper portion of the tank; e. cooling coil catch tray means positioned below said cooling coils; and, f. an independent wall heater means for heating the side walls and for preventing vapor from condensing on the side walls and for generating IPA vapors from condensate directed against said side walls by said cooling coil catch tray means. 7. The dryer system of claim 6 wherein the wail heater means includes a heat panel mounted on each side wall. 8. The dryer system of claim 6 further comprising a cooling jacket mounted adjacent the tank walls for cooling an upper portion of the tank. 9. A vapor dryer system comprising: a. a housing; b. a quartz tank, having multiple side walls, mounted in the housing; c. a base heater means mounted in the housing below the tank for vaporizing liquid in the tank; d. independent side wall heater means, mounted against the side walls, for maintaining vapor in a non-condensed state within the quartz tank; e. a cooling jacket means mounted adjacent an upper portion of the tank for cooling the upper portion and preventing heat-generated air currents; f. a cooling coil means mounted above the tank adjacent said cooling jacket means for cooling and condensing vapor; g. cooling coil catch tray means mounted below said cooling coil means; and, h. saucer tray means placed on a base of said quartz tank and having opposing channels spaced with respect to each other for vapor passage. 10. The system of claim 9 further comprising an air flow damper mounted in the housing between the tank and the housing for preventing turbulent air flow in the housing. 11. The combination of claim 5 wherein the saucer means comprises: a. wherein one set of the opposing open channeled members is upward-facing for capturing contaminated liquid IPA, these upward-facing members being spaced apart for allowing upward vapor passage; and, b. wherein a second set of the opposing channeled members is downward facing for deflecting descending liquid IPA into the upward-facing members. 12. The combination of claim 11 wherein all channel members are tubular sections and generally semicircular cross section. 13. The combination of claim 9 wherein the saucer tray means comprises: a. wherein one set of the opposing channels is upward-facing for capturing contaminated liquid IPA; and, b. wherein a second set of the opposing channels is downward facing for deflecting descending liquid IPA into the upward-facing channels. 14. The combination of claim 13 wherein all channels are tubular sections having a generally semicircular cross section. 15. An IPA vapor dryer for processing semiconductor wafers or substrates comprising: a. a quartz tank; b. heating means for generating an IPA vapor; c. holding means for holding semiconductor wafers or substrates in the IPA vapor; and, d. saucer means mounted below the holding means for collecting contaminated condensed IPA from the semiconductor wafers or substrates, the saucer means including: i. upward facing generally parallel channels for capturing IPA liquid and for directing it away, the upward facing channels being separated by a vapor path for allowing upward movement of IPA vapor between the upward facing channels; and ii. downward facing channels for covering the vapor paths between the upward facing channels and for overlapping over the upward facing channels, the downward facing channels having a curved upper surface for deflecting descending IPA vapor into the upward facing channels, while allowing IPA vapor from the vapor paths between the upward facing channels to move upward to the holding means. 16. The IPA vapor dryer of claim 15 wherein the channels are tubular sections having a generally semicircular cross section. 17. In an IPA vapor dryer for processing electronic parts including a tank, a heater means for creating an IPA vapor for cleaning the parts, cooling means for liquefying the IPA vapor for reuse, and improved tray for capturing condensed contaminated IPA from electronic parts, comprising: a. a set of upward-facing channels for capturing contaminated liquid IPA and for directing it away, the upward-facing channels being spaced apart to form a vapor path to allow upward movement of IPA vapor; and, b. a set of downward-facing channels for overlapping the vapor path between the upward-facing channels for deflecting descending liquid IPA into the upward-facing channels and for allowing IPA vapor to follow the vapor path between the upward-facing channels and around the downward-facing channels for access to the electronic parts. 18. The tray of claim 17 wherein the upward-facing channels and downward-facing channels are tubular sections having a generally semicircular cross section. 19. An IPA vapor dryer for processing semiconductor parts comprising: a. a quartz tank; b. holder means for holding semiconductor parts for processing; c. heater means for heating IPA for generating an IPA vapor; d. cooler means for cooling IPA vapor to condense the vapor into IPA liquid for reuse; e. tray means for capturing contaminated IPA mounted below the holding means comprising upward-facing tubular sections for capturing descending contaminated IPA and for directing it away; f. the tubular sections, having a generally semicircular cross section, being spaced apart a first distance for allowing IPA vapor to ascend between the upward facing tubular sections; g. downward facing tubular sections for overlapping the upward-facing tubular sections, one downward-facing tubular section covering the first distance between each pair of upward-facing tubular sections for deflecting descending IPA liquid into the upward-facing tubular sections and for preventing passage of liquid IPA between the upward facing tubular sections; h. the downward-facing tubular sections being spaced apart vertically from the upward-facing tubular sections to allow a vapor path vertically between the upward-facing tubular sections, then horizontally between the upward-facing tubular sections and the downward-facing tubular sections, and finally upward between the downward-facing tubular sections. 