A plastic joining method directs polychromate, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation through a transmitting plastic to an absorbing material that absorbs the radiation with the generation of heat. The heat is used to heat a bond line formed from the transmitting plastic and a substrate sufficiently to bond the transmitting plastic and substrate. A radiation filter of the same material as the transmitting plastic is used to reduce effectively unwanted absorption (and heat) in the transmitting plastic. Radiation focusing, masking, transmitting plastic cooling, bond line component drying, double pass welding, and additional bond line pressure are used to improve the bond of the resulting manufacture.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of plastic joining comprising: a) providing a radiation source of polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation; b) providing an absorbing material that absorbs said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation with the generation of heat; c) providing a substantially rigid transmitting plastic that transmits said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation; d) providing a substrate; e) forming a bond line by placing said absorbing material in said bond line in proximity with said transmitting plastic and said substrate; f) filtering polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation from said radiation source; g) directing said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation from said filtering step initially through said transmitting plastic and then to said absorbing material; h) absorbing said polychromatic non-coherent electromagnetic radiation with said absorbing material to produce sufficient heat in said bond line to afford intermixing of molten transmitting plastic and molten substrate; and i) cooling said bond line containing said absorbing material to bond said transmitting plastic and said substrate. 2. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 comprising providing said absorbing material as part of said substrate. 3. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising providing a bonding material in said bond line. 4. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 comprising providing an infrared lamp as said radiation source of said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation. 5. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 comprising providing a quartz halogen lamp as said radiation source of said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation. 6. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of forming a focused beam of said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation. 7. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of forming a parallel beam of said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation. 8. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of cooling said transmitting plastic while carrying out said step of directing said electromagnetic radiation through said transmitting plastic. 9. The method of plastic joining according to claim 8 comprising the step of directing a stream of air onto said transmitting plastic while carrying out said step of directing electromagnetic radiation through said transmitting plastic. 10. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of providing a plastic filter that is substantially of the same material as said transmitting plastic and filtering portions of said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation prior to passage of said radiation through said transmitting plastic. 11. The method of plastic joining according to claim 10 further comprising the step of cooling said plastic filter. 12. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of masking a portion of said substrate from said polychromatic, non-coherent electromagnetic radiation. 13. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of applying pressure to said bond line. 14. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising moving said radiation source along said bond line. 15. The method of plastic joining according to claim 14 further comprising using a robot to move said radiation source along said bond line. 16. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 comprising maintaining both said radiation source and said bond line in a static position while absorbing simultaneously said radiation with said absorbing material at all points along said bond line. 17. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising an initial step of removing volatile components from at least one of said transmitting plastic, said absorbing material, and said substrate. 18. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising drying at least one of said transmitting plastic, said absorbing material, and said substrate prior to said step of absorbing said radiation with said absorbing material. 19. The method of plastic joining according to claim 1 further comprising the step of preheating said bond line with said electromagnetic radiation. 20. A plastic manufacture joined according to the method of claim 1. 