A compliant nozzle assembly for being mounted with respect to an extrusion module of an extrusion apparatus, wherein the nozzle thereof compliantly yields when forceably encountering a workpiece. A nozzle having a hemispheric base is biased against a seal washer of an adapter member so as to be pivotably sealed therewith. A locator bearing has an annular bearing bevel which is biasably seated into an annular seat bevel of the adapter member. When the nozzle forcefully strikes a workpiece such that the nozzle is caused to be pivoted at the seal bearing, the annular bearing bevel will become unseated from its normally seated position in the annular seat bevel. This displacement results in the locator bearing traveling axially along the nozzle toward its tip, having the effect of causing the annular bearing bevel to the returned to its normally seated position in the annular seat bevel. Thus, the nozzle is able to compliantly move in response to forceful contact with a workpiece, yet will resiliently return to its preset location as soon as the forceful contact is terminated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compliant nozzle assembly for extruding fluids, comprising: a nozzle having a nose and a base, said base having a spherically curved surface adjoining said nose; an adapter member having an adapter bore therethrough, said adapter member having an annular seat bevel formed at one end thereof; seal means located adjacent said annular seat bevel for sealing said spherically shaped surface with respect to said adapter member when said spherically curved surface is biased thereagainst; a locator bearing having a center opening, said locator bearing having an annular bearing bevel, said annular bearing bevel being complementary to said annular seat bevel, wherein said annular bearing bevel is seatable into said annular seat bevel; and biasing means for biasing said spherically shaped surface against said seal means and for biasing said annular bearing bevel seatingly into said annular seat bevel. 2. A compliant nozzle assembly for extruding fluids, comprising: a nozzle having an extrusion bore therethrough, said nozzle having a nose, said extrusion bore terminating in an orifice at said nose, said nozzle having a base opposite said nose, said base having a spherically curved surface adjoining said nose; an adapter member having an adapter bore therethrough, said adapter member having an annular seat bevel formed at one end thereof; seal means located adjacent said annular seat bevel for sealing said spherically shaped surface with respect to said adapter member when said spherically curved surface is biased thereagainst; a locator bearing having a center opening, said locator bearing having an annular bearing bevel, said annular bearing bevel being complementary to said annular seat bevel, wherein said annular bearing bevel is seatable into said annular seat bevel; and biasing means for biasing said spherically shaped surface against said seal means and for biasing said annular bearing bevel seatingly into said annular seat bevel. 3. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 2, wherein said biasing means comprises: a first biasing spring slipped over said nose; and abutment means located on said nose for compressing said first biasing spring between said abutment means and said locator bearing. 4. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 3, wherein said biasing means further comprises second biasing spring means located in said adapter bore for at least in part biasing said spherically shaped surface against said seal means. 5. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 3, wherein said seal means comprises a seal washer sealingly engaged with said adapter member adjacent said annular seat bevel. 6. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 5, wherein said seal washer has a washer bevel which abuts said spherically shaped surface of said base. 7. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 6, wherein said adapter bore has a centerline axis; further wherein said washer bevel has a bevel angle of substantially forty-five degrees with respect to said centerline axis. 8. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 7, wherein said annular seat bevel has a bevel angle of substantially forty-five degrees with respect to said centerline axis. 9. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 8, wherein said biasing means further comprises second biasing spring means located in said adapter bore for at least in part biasing said spherically shaped surface against said seal means. 10. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 9, further comprising connection means for connecting said adapter member to a fluid extrusion apparatus. 11. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 2, wherein said annular seat bevel has a bevel angle of substantially forty-five degrees with respect to said centerline axis. 12. A compliant nozzle assembly for extruding fluids from an extrusion apparatus, comprising: a nozzle having an extrusion bore therethrough, said nozzle having a nose, said extrusion bore terminating in an orifice at said nose, said nozzle having a base opposite said nose, said base having a spherically curved surface adjoining said nose; an adapter member having an adapter bore therethrough, said adapter member having an annular seat bevel formed at one end thereof; seal means located adjacent said annular seat bevel for sealing said spherically shaped surface with respect to said adapter member when said spherically curved surface is biased thereagainst; a locator bearing having a center opening, said locator bearing having an annular bearing bevel, said annular bearing bevel being complementary to said annular seat bevel, wherein said annular bearing bevel is seatable into said annular seat bevel; first biasing means located at said nose for biasing said annular bearing bevel seatingly into said annular seat bevel and for at least in part biasing said spherically shaped surface against said seal means; second biasing means located in said adapter bore for at least in part biasing said spherically shaped surface against said seal means; and connection means for connecting said adapter member to a fluid extrusion apparatus. 13. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 12, wherein said seal means comprises a seal washer sealingly engaged with said adapter member adjacent said annular seat bevel. 14. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 12, wherein said seal washer has a washer bevel which abuts said spherically shaped surface of said base. 15. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 12, wherein said adapter bore has a centerline axis; further wherein said washer bevel has a bevel angle of substantially forty-five degrees with respect to said centerline axis. 16. The compliant nozzle assembly of claim 12, wherein said annular seat bevel has a bevel angle of substantially forty-five degrees with respect to said centerline axis. 