A system for executing a farming activity on a working area including one or more growing areas of crop items and harvesting tools and manipulators for harvesting crop items hanging by stems from their growth sources. The system includes a track extending substantially parallel to and in a spaced relationship from one or more of the growing areas of crops and a trolley driven along the track, the trolley including farm equipment for executing a farming activity on the growing areas of crops. One embodiment of a harvesting tool includes a base and a cutterhead mounted on the base, the cutterhead having (i) an array of fingers for accommodating the stem between a pair of adjacent fingers, the array having a substantially arcuate configuration and dimensioned so as to envelop at least the top portion of the crop item and (ii) a stem cutter for cutting the stem when accommodated by a pair of adjacent fingers. Another embodiment of a harvesting tool includes a manipulator for selectively harvesting the crop item, the manipulator detaching the crop item from its growth source during a displacement from an extended position in which it grips the crop item at its growth source to an retracted position and a stabilizer for stabilizing the growth source while the crop item is being harvested therefrom, the stabilizer assuming a growth source engaging position before the manipulator is displaced from its extended position to its retracted position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for executing a farming activity on a working area including one or more growing areas of crop items, the system comprising: (a) a track extending substantially parallel to and in a spaced relationship from one or more of the growing areas of crop items; and (b) a trolley driven along said track, said trolley including farm equipment, a part of said farm equipment being deployable over at least a part of the growing areas of crop items for executing a farming activity on the growing areas of crop items. 2. The system as in claim 1 wherein said track is buried underground. 3. The system as in claim 1 wherein said track is laid on the ground. 4. The system as in claim 1 wherein said track is an overhead track. 5. The system as in claim 1 wherein said track is a permanent fixture in the working area. 6. The system as in claim 1 wherein said track is a portable fixture which can be selectively deployed in one or more working areas. 7. The system as in claim 1 wherein said farm equipment includes: (i) an object location apparatus including a camera for determining the location of a crop item relative to a pre-determined point of reference, said camera having an optical center; and (ii) a harvesting tool for harvesting a crop item located by said object location apparatus, said tool having an imaginary anchor point, said optical center and said anchor point being substantially coincident in space such that said tool approaches the object along a line of action which is substantially coincident with a line of sight between the object and said optical center. 8. The system as in claim 7 wherein said harvesting tool harvests a crop item hanging by a stem from its growth source, said harvesting tool including: (i) a base; and (ii) a cutterhead mounted on said base, said cutterhead including an array of at least three fingers for accommodating the stem between a pair of adjacent fingers, said array of fingers having a substantially arcuate configuration and dimensioned so as to envelop at least the top portion of the crop item, and a stem cutter for cutting the stem when accommodated by said pair of adjacent fingers. 9. The system as in claim 7 wherein said harvesting tool harvests a crop item hanging by a stem from its growth source, said harvesting tool including: (i) a manipulator for selectively harvesting the crop item, said manipulator detaching the crop item from its growth source during a displacement from an extended position in which said manipulator grips the crop item at its growth source to an retracted position; and (ii) a stabilizer for stabilizing the growth source while the crop item is being harvested therefrom, said stabilizer assuming a growth source engaging position before said manipulator is displaced from its said extended position to its retracted position. 10. The system as in claim 7 wherein said farm equipment further includes: (iii) cleaning apparatus for cleaning crop items as they descend from a first height to a second height, and (iv) sorting apparatus for sorting crop items according to size, said sorting apparatus being deployed either at said first height or said second height. 11. A harvesting tool for harvesting a crop item hanging by a stem from its growth source, the harvesting tool comprising: (a) a base; (b) a cutterhead mounted on said base, said cutterhead including: (i) an array of at least three fingers for accommodating the stem between a pair of adjacent fingers, said array of fingers having a substantially arcuate configuration and dimensioned so as to envelop at least the top portion of the crop item, and (ii) a stem cutter for cutting the stem when accommodated by said pair of adjacent fingers; and (c) means for activating said cutterhead once the stem has been positioned between said pair of adjacent fingers. 12. The harvesting tool as in claim 11 wherein said cutterhead is rotatably mounted on said base for enabling a selectively variable forward pitch thereof relative to said base so as to capture the stem when inclined away from said cutterhead. 13. The harvesting tool as in claim 11 wherein said stem cutter includes a rotatable cutter movable along a path parallel and in close proximity to said array of fingers. 14. The harvesting tool as in claim 11, said array of fingers being referred to herein as said first array of fingers, wherein said stem cutter includes a second array of at least two fingers, said first array of fingers and said stem cutter having an overlapping portion, said first array of fingers and said stem cutter being displaceable relative to one another between: i) a stem accommodating position in which the stem extends between a pair of adjacent fingers of said first array of fingers and a pair of adjacent fingers of said stem cutter, and ii) a stem cutting position in which the stem is cut by a shearing action between said first array of fingers and said stem cutter. 15. The harvesting tool as in claim 11 further comprising: (c) a first sensor for providing a signal at a first pre-determined distance from a crop item; (d) a second sensor for providing a signal at a second pre-determined distance from a crop item, said second pre-determined distance being less than said first pre-determined distance; and (e) a third sensor for providing a signal when the stem impacts said cutterhead. 16. A harvesting tool for harvesting a crop item from its growth source, the harvesting tool comprising: (a) a manipulator for selectively harvesting the crop item, said manipulator detaching the crop item from its growth source during a displacement from an extended position in which said manipulator grips the crop item at its growth source to an retracted position; and (b) a stabilizer for stabilizing the growth source while the crop item is being harvested therefrom, said stabilizer assuming a growth source engaging position before said manipulator is displaced from said extended position to said retracted position. 17. The harvesting tool as in claim 16 wherein said stabilizer has an aperture through which at least a portion of said manipulator extends so as to grip the crop item. 18. The harvesting tool as in claim 16 further comprising: (c) a first sensor for providing a signal at a first pre-determined distance from a crop item; and (d) a second sensor for providing a signal at a second pre-determined distance from a crop item, said second pre-determined distance being less than said first pre-determined distance. 19. The harvesting tool as in claim 16 wherein said manipulator includes: (i) a rotatable disc; and (ii) at least three fingers, each of said at least three fingers having one end connected to said disc and a free end, said disc having a first position in which said free ends are urged toward one another in a crop gripping position and a second position in which said free ends are urged away from one another in a crop releasing position. 