A system in which a case-based search engine is integrated into a "help" database. The help database may be organized in a predetermined manner and converted by a computer program into a case-based format. An operator of a "help" program (e.g., a user who desires on-line help) may request a case-based search of the case-base using case-based methods. The case-based search provides a set of likely cases, i.e., help topics, from among which the operator may select the next help topic to view. The system may also present matched objects in response to the query, may respond to iterative refinement of the query (in similar manner to known iterative case-based methods) and may order matched objects by quality of match.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for presenting information to an operator, said system comprising: an input interface disposed for a user to enter a plurality of help commands; a help database having a plurality of help topics and comprising text thereof; a help program coupled to said input interface and to said help database, said help program comprising means for selecting help topics from said help database in response to said help commands entered by said user using said input device; a conversation program for converting and importing said help topics and text thereof from a help document format to a case base format; a case base having a plurality of cases created by importing said plurality of help topics and text thereof in said case format from said conversion program, said plurality of cases corresponding to said plurality of help topics and comprising text thereof; a case-based search engine coupled to said input interface and to said case base, said case-based search engine comprising means for selecting at least one matching case in response to said help commands entered by said user using said input interface, wherein said case-based search engine is coupled to said help program and is responsive to a command from said help program; means for coupling a set of search parameter inputs to said case-based search engine, wherein said search parameter inputs comprises a natural language text description of a desired help topic; means for selecting a single help topic in response to said at least one matching case; and means for outputting said single help topic. 2. A system as in claim 1, wherein said input device comprises a help window. 3. A system as in claim 1, wherein said help database comprises text, graphics, or sound. 4. A system as in claim 1, wherein said case base comprises one case for each said help topic. 5. A system as in claim 1, wherein said means for selecting a single help topic comprises means for displaying a plurality of possible help topics; means for receiving an indication of one of said plurality of possible help topics. 6. A system as in claim 1, wherein said means for selecting a single help topic comprises means for associating a value with each one of a plurality of possible help topics; means for comparing said value for at least two of said plurality of possible help topics; means for choosing one of said plurality of possible help topics in response to said value. 7. A system as in claim 6, wherein said value is quality of match. 8. A system as in claim 1, wherein said means for coupling comprises a command to said help program 9. A system as in claim 1, comprising means for coupling a set of query refinement inputs to said case-based search engine. 10. A system as in claim 9, wherein said means for coupling comprises a command to said help program. 