A modular mobile robot with a chassis including a power source housed therein. Right and left hand track modules are each removeably coupled to the robot chassis. Each track module includes a side plate, at least one drive wheel rotatable with respect to the side plate, a motor for driving the drive wheel, at least one idler rotatable with respect to the side plate, and a track extending around the drive wheel, the side plate, and the idler. A turret assembly with its own turret drive subsystem is removeably coupled to the robot chassis via a quick release mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular mobile robot comprising: a robot chassis; a power source housed therein; right and left hand track modules each removably coupled to the robot chassis, each track module including: a side plate, at least one drive wheel rotatable with respect to the side plate, a motor for driving the drive wheel, at least one idler rotatable with respect to the side plate, and a track extending around the drive wheel, the side plate, and the idler; and a turret assembly with its own turret drive subsystem and removeably coupled to the robot chassis via a quick release mechanism. 2. The robot of claim 1 in which both track module side plates are removeably coupled fore and aft to the robot chassis via couplings. 3. The robot of claim 2 in which the aft couplings are hinges with removable hinge pins. 4. The robot of claim 3 in which each hinge includes a pair of spaced ears coupled to the robot chassis, a sleeve coupled to the side plate and rotatably disposed between the ears, and a hinge pin extending between both ears and the sleeve. 5. The robot of claim 2 in which the fore couplings are clamp assemblies. 6. The robot of claim 5 in which each clamp assembly includes a cam follower releasably urged against a portion of the robot chassis. 7. The robot of claim 6 in which the cam follower extends from a damping bracket including a dowel pin spaced from the cam follower for receiving a shelf portion of the robot chassis. 8. The robot of claim 6 in which each clamp assembly further includes a clamping bracket coupled to a track side plate and including a bore therethrough having a first longitudinal central axis, a cam throw sleeve secured to the cam follower and including a bore therethrough having a second longitudinal central axis offset from the first longitudinal access, and a handle for rotating the cam throw sleeve and the cam follower to engage the shelf portion of the robot chassis. 9. The robot of claim 8 in which each clamp assembly further includes a cam locking sleeve about the cam follower and within the cam throw sleeve, the cam locking sleeve including a bore therethrough having a third longitudinal central axis adjustable with respect to the first and second longitudinal central axes to vary the clamping force of the clamp assembly. 10. The robot of claim 9 in which the cam locking sleeve includes a plurality of orifices therethrough corresponding in location to at least one orifice through the cam throw sleeve and a fastener through at least one orifice in the cam throw sleeve and a chosen orifice of the plurality of orifices in the cam locking sleeve to secure the cam locking sleeve with respect to the cam throw sleeve. 11. The robot of claim 2 further including at least one suspension device between a side plate and a coupling. 12. The robot of claim 11 in which the suspension device includes a suspension cartridge comprising: a base plate secured to the side plate including a pin and spaced damping pads, and a pivot plate attached to the coupling and including an orifice which receives the pin of the base plate and a tang received between the spaced damping pads. 13. The robot of claim 12 in which there is a suspension cartridge between each coupling and its respective side plate. 14. The robot of claim 1 in which each track module further includes a tensioner for the idler. 15. The robot of claim 14 in which each tensioner includes: a tension block abutting a portion of the track module, a slide block for the idler, and a tension adjuster coupled to the slide block and extendable and retractable with respect to the tension block. 16. The robot of claim 15 in which each tensioner further includes a plunger coupled on one end to the slide block and extending within and secured to the tension adjuster. 17. The robot of claim 1 in which the turret includes a pintle extending therefrom, the robot chassis includes a pintle receiver for the pintle, and the quick release mechanism includes a ball lock releasably securing the pintle in the pintle receiver. 18. The robot of claim 1 in which the robot chassis includes one or more electronic connectors and the turret includes one or more corresponding electronic connectors each electrically connected to a slip ring associated with the turret. 19. The robot of claim 1 in which each track includes cut-outs where the idlers engage the track to prevent debris from building up on the idler, or track. 20. The robot of claim 1 in which each track module further includes a lubricious member guiding the track. 21. The robot of claim 1 further including at least one kickstand for raising the robot chassis to remove the tracks and/or track modules. 22. A mobile robot comprising: a robot chassis defining a battery cavity; and left and right track modules spreadable with respect to the chassis via hinges attaching the track modules to the robot chassis to access the battery cavity, each module including: a side plate, at least one drive wheel rotatable with respect to the side plate, a motor for driving the drive wheel, at least one idler rotatable with respect to the side plate, and a track extending around the drive wheel, the side plate, and the idler, a clamp assembly for each track side plate releasably coupling each track module to the robot chassis, each clamp assembly including a cam follower releasably urged against a portion of the robot chassis. 23. A mobile robot comprising: a robot chassis defining a battery cavity; left and right track modules each including a side plate, at least one drive wheel rotatable with respect to the side plate, a motor for driving the drive wheel, at least one idler rotatable with respect to the side plate, and a track extending around the drive wheel, the side plate, and the idler; a hinge attaching each track module to the robot chassis; and a clamp assembly for each track module releasably coupling the track module to the robot chassis, each clamp assembly including a cam follower releasably urged against a portion of the robot chassis. 24. A mobile robot comprising: a robot chassis defining a battery cavity; left and right track modules each including a side plate, at least one drive wheel rotatable with respect to the side plate, a motor for driving the drive wheel, at least one idler rotatable with respect to the side plate, and a track extending around the drive wheel, the side plate, and the idler; a hinge attaching each track module to the robot chassis; and a clamp assembly for each track module releasably coupling the track module to the robot chassis, each clamp assembly further including a clamping bracket coupled to a track side plate and a bore therethrough having a first longitudinal central axis, and a cam throw sleeve secured to the cam follower and including a bore having a second longitudinal central axis offset from the first longitudinal axis, and a handle for rotating the cam throw sleeve and the cam follower. 