A method of examining a milking animal presenting for milking including examining the animal with an optical (as herein defined) sensing device responsive to at least one characteristic significant in the acceptability of an animal for milking, assessing the response of the sensing device to determine the acceptability of the animal and controlling the continuance of the presentation of the animal in dependence on the determination.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of examining a milking animal presenting for milking including the steps of: preparing an image reference record of said animal; examining said animal with an optical sensing device responsive to light in at least one of the ranges of infra red, visible, and ultraviolet, and also responsive to at least one characteristic significant in the acceptability of said animal for milking; preparing a further image record of said animal based on said examining step; assessing the response of said sensing device to determine the acceptability of said animal, including: comparing said image reference record and said further image record, determining differences from said the comparison step and deciding whether said animal is to be milked at said the presentation based on said differences; and controlling the continuance of said presentation of said animal in dependence on said determining step. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said steps of preparing said further image record and preparing said image reference record are performed using the same animal. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of preparing said image reference record is performed directly from an animal. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of preparing said image reference record is performed so that it is typical of an animal presenting for milking. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said optical sensing device is specific to a material associated with an animal condition unacceptable when said animal presents for milking. 6. A method according to claim 5 wherein said optical sensing device is specific to chlorophyll on at least one of a teat and udder of an animal. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein said optical sensing device is sensitive to the absorption wavelength of chlorophyll, said method further including directing said optical sensing device to an area of the teats and udder of said animal. 8. A method according to claim 5, further including: supplying a radiation capable of causing fluorescence of a material; applying said radiation at least to an area of the teats and udder of said animal; and directing said optical sensing device to said area. 9. A method according to claim 1, further including the step of deciding whether said determining step indicates an unacceptable condition sufficient to cause the ending of said presentation. 10. A method according to claim 1 further including the steps of: providing a reference record of spectral characteristics of a clean teat; capturing spectral characteristics of each teat of said animal presenting for milking; comparing said reference record and captured characteristics and applying the result of the said comparison to control the continuation of said presentation of said animal. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein said step of providing said reference record includes preparing a generalised spectral reference record. 12. A method according to claim 10, wherein said step of providing said reference record includes preparing a spectral reference record specific to an animal to be examined. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one characteristic is a variation of reflectance with wavelength. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one characteristic is a derivative of a variation of reflectance with wavelength. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one characteristic is the second derivative of a variation of reflectance with wavelength. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein said optical sensing device is effective in at least the ranges of wavelengths 670 to 690, 530 to 575 nanometers and a normalised wavelength in the near infra red. 17. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said image reference and further image records are in the form of numerical information. 18. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said image reference and further image records are in the form of ratios of areas of colour. 19. Apparatus for the examination of a milking animal presenting for milking comprising: an optical sensing device responsive to light in at least one of the ranges of infra red, visible, and ultraviolet light, and also responsive to at least one characteristic significant in the acceptability of said animal for milking, said optical sensing device being effective in operation to provide an output in dependence on such response; means to support at least said optical sensing device in the vicinity of said animal and within a sensing range thereof; and means responsive to said output to assess the response of said optical sensing device, including: means for comparing and determining differences between said output and an image record of said animal based on said at least one characteristic; and means for determining the acceptability of said animal for presentation for milking and for providing an indication of said determination. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19, further including means responsive to said indication to control the continuation of said presentation of said animal. 21. Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said indication is at least one of a visual, audible and like indication for an operative. 22. Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein said apparatus is arranged for automatic operation and wherein said indication is a signal to which said automatic apparatus is responsive. 23. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19 wherein said output and said image record are in the form of numerical information. 24. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19 wherein said output and said image record are in the form of ratios of areas of colour. 