Methods and apparatuses for assemblying, handling, and fabrication are disclosed in which targets are used on objects. The targets can be specifically applied to the object, or can be an otherwise normal feature of the object. Conveniently, the targets are removable from the object or covered by another object during an assemblying process. One or more robots and imaging devices for the targets are used. The robots can be used to handle or assemble a part, or a fixture may be used in conjunction with the robots. Conveniently, the CAD design system is used in designing the targets as well as for the assembly process using the targets. A plurality of targets can also be used to monitor and inspect a forming process such as on a sheet panel.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of correcting robot position comprising the steps of: providing a computer-programmed robot having a work area and programmed to execute predetermined working movements relative to an object to be worked by the robot, providing at least one electro-optical sensor on said robot, providing at least one reference point fixed in or near the work area of the robot, sensing said reference point with said sensor, determining relative position data between said robot and said reference point, and providing a correction signal to said robot based on said relative position data for correcting a predetermined working movement of said robot. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensor includes a matrix array TV camera. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensor is a stereo pair of TV cameras. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference point is visible when an object is worked by said robot. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference point is on a holding device for an object worked by said robot. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of reference points are used at different locations in the robot work area. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference point comprises a plurality of reference points in a group providing additional axes information. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said robot includes a guidance computer which automatically creates a program for said robot. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference point is sensed in at least two axes. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein said reference point is visible when an object worked by said robot is moved away. 11. A method of correcting robot position comprising the steps of: providing a computer-programmed robot having a work area and programmed to execute predetermined working movements, providing at least one electro-optical sensor fixed in or near the work area of the robot, providing at least one reference point on said robot, sensing said reference point with said sensor, determining relative position data between said robot and said reference point, and providing a correction signal to said robot based on said relative position data for correcting a predetermined working movement of the robot. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein said sensor includes a matrix array TV camera. 13. A method according to claim 11 wherein said sensor comprises a stereo pair of TV cameras. 14. A method according to claim 11 wherein said reference point comprises a plurality of reference points arranged in a group to provide additional axes information. 15. A method according to claim 11 wherein said robot includes a guidance computer which automatically creates a program for said robot. 16. A method according to claim 11 wherein said reference point is sensed in at least two axes. 17. A method of correcting robot position comprising the steps of: providing a computer-programmed robot having a work area and programmed to execute working movements relative to an object to be worked by the robot providing at least one electro-optical sensor providing at least one reference point on a holding device for the object to be worked by the robot, sensing said reference point with said sensor, determining relative position data between said robot and said reference point, and providing a correction signal to said robot based on said relative position data for correcting a predetermined working movement of said robot. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said sensor includes a matrix array TV camera. 19. A method according claim 17 wherein said sensor is a stereo pair of TV cameras. 20. A method according to claim 17 wherein said at least one reference point comprises a plurality of reference points arranged in a group to provide additional axes information. 