An apparatus which securely grasps a wide range of three dimensional objects while relaying digital data about the surface grasped using pneumatically actuated mechanical probes for such grasping and optomechanical encoding for such relaying of data. Such optomechanical encoding employs encoder tubes with columns of patterned slots and holes to selectively transmit light through synthetic plastic fibers. A process of constructing the portion of the apparatus where the optomechanical encoding producing such data occurs which comprises continuously looping the synthetic plastic fibers necessary for light transmission, injecting an adhesive and sealant to enable pneumatic operation of the apparatus, and cutting the adhesive and sealant and synthetic plastic fibers in a circular pattern to allow the passage of the encoder tubes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects comprising: a. a plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects; b. means for enclosing at least a portion of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects, said objects being located exterior to said means for enclosing; and c. means for converting displacements of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects to digital signals, said displacements being produced when each of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects are extended and contact an object to be gripped or reach a maximum extension, said means for converting displacements operating by the transmission and nontransmission of signals as a function of said displacements. 2. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein each one of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects comprises: a. a probe; b. a retainer tube, a first end of which is immovably attached to said probe; and c. an encoder tube immovably attached to a second end of said retainer tube. 3. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for enclosing at least a portion of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects comprises: a. a bearing plate having a plurality of holes which retain said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects in an initially retracted position, when said bearing plate first contacts an object, and through which holes said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects pass to contact and grip said object after said bearing plate contacts said object; b. a housing adapted to house a portion of the length of each of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects in said initially retracted position and through which each of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects can pass to contact and grip said object; and c. a sensor array adapted to permit a portion of the length of each of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects to pass through said sensor array. 4. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 2, wherein said means for converting displacements of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects to digital signals comprises: a. a plurality of photodetection circuits adapted to convert displacements of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects to optical signals; and b. a communications hardware circuit comprising a plurality of said photodetection circuits and receiving means, decoding means, and transmitting means for gathering and storing said optical signals from said sensor in the form of digital signals. 5. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects are disposed in a two-dimensional array. 6. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 4, wherein each of said plurality of photodetection circuits comprises: a. an emitter containing an emitter circuit; b. a transmit fiber transmitting optical signals from said emitter circuit; c. a photodetector containing a detector circuit; and d. a receive fiber receiving said optical signals from said transmit fiber and conducting said optical signals to said detector circuit. 7. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 6, wherein said emitter circuit comprises an infrared light emitting diode, said optical signals being comprised of infrared light. 8. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 6, wherein said transmit fiber and said receive fiber are composed of plastic. 9. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 7, wherein said detector circuit includes an operational amplifier allowing said detector circuit to successfully detect said infrared light from said receive fiber. 10. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 6, wherein said receiving means of said communications hardware circuit comprise optocouplers, said decoding means of said communications hardware circuit comprise decoders, and said transmitting means of said communications hardware circuit comprise optocouplers. 11. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 10, wherein said communications hardware circuit utilizes said optocouplers and decoders to receive and decode, respectively, row and column addresses energizing a particular one of said emitters, said emitters being disposed in a two-dimensional array. 12. A sensor for the flexible gripping of objects as claimed in claim 9, wherein said encoder tube has a pattern of slots and holes so disposed therein as to selectively transmit or block transmission of said infrared light from a plurality of said transmit fibers to a plurality of said receive fibers, depending on the position of said one of said plurality of means for contacting and gripping said objects comprising said encoder tube. 13. Two sensors for the flexible gripping of objects, one of each of said two sensors being integrated into right and left fingers, respectively, of a robotic parallel gripper, each of said two sensors being as claimed in claim 1. 14. A process for constructing a sensor array comprising: a. pressing inner guide tubes into place in a plurality of holes in a plate and a guide block; b. cutting diagonal slits across the top of said guide block, said slits intersecting an array of holes to contain said inner guide tubes and a plurality of transmit fibers and an array of holes to contain receive fibers; c. continuously looping a single optical fiber between said array of holes to contain said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers and said array of holes to contain said receive fibers, such that said fiber lies in said slits; d. injecting an adhesive and sealing means to fill all the cavities in said sensor array; and e. cutting in a circular pattern said adhesive and sealing means and said optical fiber at each of the holes in said array of holes in said guide block and said plate to contain said inner guide tubes and said transmit fibers. 15. A process according to claim 14, wherein said single optical fiber utilized in said looping operation is comprised of plastic. 16. A process according to claim 14, wherein said injection operation employs a ram system and mixing nozzle. 17. A process according to claim 14, wherein said adhesive and sealing means is formulated in a black color, and is able to cure at room temperature in 24 hours. 18. A process according to claim 14, wherein said adhesive and sealing means is low viscosity and comprises a polysulfide and epoxy mixture. 19. A process according to claim 14 wherein said cutting operation is performed such that said circular pattern produced provides a passage for the movement of an encoder tube. 