The magnetic actuator part of a gas safety valve is constructed with a C-shaped insulator which grips the base portion of a U-shaped magnet that is fastened to a base. The base has welded to it a projecting contact pin. The coil of the electromagnet is fusion welded at both its ends: at its first end it is attached to a plate which connects to the center pin; at its second end it is attached to the contact pin to which it lies transverse. The construction facilitates good electrical connections between dissimilar materials and permits rapid assembly by a robot.
Claims I claim: 1. A magnetic actuator for a gas valve comprised of a body; a U-shaped magnet mounted at its U-base on the body; an electrical coil winding around the U-legs of the magnet, electrically connected at a first coil end with the body and at a second coil end with an electrically isolated center pin passing through both the body and the U-base of the magnet; characterized by a C-shaped insulator embracing the U-base of the magnet to insulate both the face of the magnet which contacts the base and the opposing face thereof; and, means which retain the insulator on the magnet prior to its being mounted on the base. 2. The actuator of claim 1 characterized by the insulator having a lip on one leg of the C-shape to engage an edge of the magnet U-base, to thereby provide the means which retain the insulator on the magnet. 3. The actuator of claim 1 characterized by the one C-leg of the insulator having a channel shaped cross section to thereby provide stiffness to the leg and to enable the insultor to better grip and remain placed on the magnet U-base prior to assembly. 4. The actuator of claim 3 characterized by a plate lying upon the insulator within the channel cross section; the plate fastened to and held in place by the center pin; and, the second coil end physically connected to the plate. 5. The actuator of claim 4 characterized by the second coil end being welded to the plate; and, the plate being welded to the center pin. 6. The actuator of claim 1 characterized by a contact pin projecting from the body, and, the first end of the coil crossing transverse to and being welded to the pin. 7. A magnetic actuator for a gas valve comprised of a body; a U-shaped magnet mounted at its U-base on the body, an electrical coil winding around the U-legs of the magnet, electrically connected at a first coil end with the body and at a second coil end with an electrically isolated center pin passing through both the body and the U-base of the magnet; characterized by a contact pin which projects upwardly from the body, the first coil end lying transverse to the contact pin and physically connected thereto. 8. The actuator of claim 7 characterized by a coil winding made of copper wire and a body made of a dissimilar material. 9. The actuator of claim 7 characterized by a contact pin which is percussive welded to the body and a first coil end fusion welded to the contact pin. 