A safety mounting device includes two movable members mounted within a housing, the second movable member being sandwiched between the first movable member and a stop member and the first movable member being biased against the second movable member. Both movable members are movable along the longitudinal axis of the housing with the second movable member also being capable of tilting with respect to that longitudinal axis and rotating with respect to that longitudinal axis. The engagement between the two movable members is of a cam surface-cam follower nature. Movement of the second movable member along the longitudinal axis towards the first movable member, rotation of the second movable member from its home position and tilting of the second movable member relative to the longitudinal axis all cause the first movable member to be displaced from its home position along the longitudinal axis. This displacement can be used to trigger a switch for control purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A safety mounting device comprising a housing having a longitudinal axis; a first movable member mounted within said housing for sliding movement along said longitudinal axis; a second movable member mounted within said housing between said first movable member and a stop member, said second movable member being mounted within said housing for sliding movement along said longitudinal axis, for rotation about said longitudinal axis and for tilting movement with respect to said longitudinal axis; biasing means for biasing said first movable member against said second movable member to sandwich said second movable member between said first movable member and a stop member; and switch means having an on position and an off position and operable by said first movable member, in one position of said first movable member along said longitudinal axis said switch means being in one of its two positions, in other positions of said first movable member along said longitudinal axis said switch means being in the other of its two positions; said first and second movable members contacting each other by means of a cam surface and a cam follower surface such that rotation of said second movable member about said longitudinal axis from a home position wherein said first movable member is in its said one position displaces said first movable member by cam surface-cam follower action to said other positions thereof, said first movable member also being movable from said one position thereof to said other positions thereof by virtue of movement of said second movable member along said longitudinal axis toward said first movable member and by virtue of tilting of said second movable member relative to said longitudinal axis. 2. A safety mounting device according to claim 1 wherein said biasing means is a spring. 3. A safety mounting device according to claim 1 wherein said cam surface is on said second movable member and said cam follower surface is on said first movable member. 4. A safety mounting device according to claim 1 wherein said cam surface and said cam follower surface are generally V-shaped nesting surfaces. 5. A safety mounting device according to claim 4 wherein said cam surface is on said second movable member and said cam follower surface is on said first movable member. 6. A safety mounting device according to claim 1 including a welding torch mounting bracket and means for securing said bracket to said second movable member. 