A device is provided through which a set of information concerning tactile interaction between a manipulator and an object to be recognized is provided to the user. Several configurations are described, based on the piezo- and pyro-electric (ferroelectric) properties of polymeric materials, such as the polymer polyvinylidene fluoride (PVF.sub.2 or PVDF), different polypeptides and copolymers of PVF.sub.2 and TrFE. By arraying in a proper way various sensing layers, each featured by different sensory capabilities, a laminated sensor structure is obtained, able to provide a set of tactile information. The multilayered structure of the proposed device is inspired to that of the human skin, which includes superficial (epidermal) and deep (dermal) sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composite tactile sensing device, comprising a superficial (epidermal) sensing layer, including a first ferroelectric polymer transducer, a deep (dermal) sensing layer, including a second ferroelectric polymer transducer, comprising a film of ferroelectric polymer material and a matrix-like array of electrodes connected to the face of said film which is opposite to the epidermal sensing layer, and an intermediate layer of compliant material, interposed between said epidermal and dermal sensing layers. 2. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said compliant material is rubber. 3. A sensing device as set forth in claim 2, wherein said rubber is piezo-resistive rubber conductive and is provided with electrodes. 4. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said matrix-like array of electrodes is defined by a printed circuit structure, on which said dermal sensing layer is bonded. 5. A sensing device as set forth in claim 4, wherein said printed circuit structure has a rigid configuration. 6. A sensing device as set forth in claim 4, wherein said dermal sensing layer is bonded onto said printed circuit structure by means of a layer of non-conductive glue. 7. A sensing device as set forth in claim 4, wherein each individual electrode of the printed circuit structure is located on the face thereof which is in contact with said film of ferroelectric polymer material, metal pads being provided on the opposite face of the printed circuit structure, which are connected to said electrodes by metallized holes formed in the printed circuit structure. 8. A sensing device as set forth in claim 7, wherein a number of microcoaxial cables are provided, each having an inner conductor connected to a respective one of said metal pads and an outer shield conductor, said printed circuit board being provided with a grounded distributed electrode to which said outer shield conductors are connected. 9. A sensing device as set forth in claim 7, wherein said metal pads are connected to conductors forming part of the flexible printed circuit structure. 10. A sensing device as set forth in claim 4, wherein said printed circuit structure is a flexible printed circuit structure. 11. A sensing device a set forth in claim 10, wherein said flexible printed circuit structure is provided with a flexible printed circuit connecting cable including conductors connected to the electrodes of the flexible printed circuit. 12. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said film of ferroelectric polymer material has a grounded electrode on its side facing the intermediate layer. 13. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said ferroelectric polymer material is polyvinylidine fluoride. 14. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein a protective layer of plastic film is interposed between said dermal layer and said compliant layer. 15. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein a protective layer of plastic material is interposed between said layer of compliant material and said epidermal layer. 16. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said first ferroelectric polymer transducer has a bilaminate structure. 17. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein a heating layer is provided, said heating layer including portions of resistive material which are interposed between said epidermal layer and said layer of compliant material in correspondence with selected areas. 18. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, further including an ultrasonic transducer, comprising an ultrasonic emitter and an ultrasonic receiver forming part of the dermal and epidermal sensing layers, respectively. 19. A sensing device as set forth in claim 18, wherein said emitter and receiver are made of ferroelectric polymer material. 20. A sensing device as set forth in claim 19, wherein said emitter and said receiver are made of PVF.sub.2. 21. A sensing device as set forth in claim 1, wherein the outer surface of the epidermal sensing layer is formed with a number of ridges. 22. A composite tactile sensing device, comprising a superficial (epidermal) sensing layer including a first ferroelectric polymer transducer, and a deep (dermal) sensing layer, including a plurality of ferroelectric polymer transducers adapted to detect difference force components and located according to a matrix-like array. 23. A sensing device as set forth in claim 22, wherein said ferroelectric polymer transducers of the deep sensing layer include sensors of PVF.sub.2 adapted to detect vertical components of the contact forces, and polypeptidic sensors, adapted to detect components of the contact forces which are parallel to the plane of the layer. 24. A sensing device as set forth in claim 22, wherein the outer surface of the epidermal sensing layer is formed with a number of ridges. 25. A composite tactile sensing device, comprising a superficial (epidermal) sensing layer, including a first ferroelectric polymer transducer, a deep (dermal) sensing layer, including a second ferroelectric polymer transducer, comprising a film of ferroelectric polymer material, an intermediate layer of compliant material, interposed between said epidermal and dermal sensing layers, and an integrated circuit structure backing said deep sensing layer and including a matrix-like array of FET input amplifiers. 26. A sensing device as set forth in claim 25, wherein said film of ferroelectric polymer material of the deep sensing layer is made of copolymer PVF.sub.2 -TrFE. 27. A sensing device as set forth in claim 25, wherein the outer surface of the epidermal sensing layer is formed with a number of ridges. 