The present invention provides a computer controlled robotic arm unit having a fixed body and a carriage which is linearly movable to the fixed body along a first horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis. An elongated column is vertically movably mounted to the carriage along a second vertical cartesian axis while an elongated arm is carried at the upper end of the column. This arm includes a work performing member at one end and is linearly movable along a third and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis which is perpendicular to the first axis.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer controlled robotic arm unit comprising: a fixed body, a carriage, first axis moving means for linearly moving said carriage to said fixed body along a first and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis, an elongated column, second axis moving means for vertically moving said column to said carriage along a second and substantially vertical cartesian axis, an arm carried by said column, said arm having a work performing member at one end, third axis moving means for linearly moving said arm along a third and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis, said third axis being perpendicular to said first axis wherein said second axis moving means comprises an electric motor, and comprising means for maintaining a substantially constant load on said electric motor. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a motor carried by said arm and means detachably connected to said motor for rotating said work performing member around any two user selected rotational orthogonal cartesian axes. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising at least one guide element for each axis, and wherein each moving means comprises a motor unit. 4. The invention as defined in claim 3 wherein each motor unit is electrically powered and wherein the electrical supply to said motor units is obtained by means of flexible flat conductor supporting strips. 5. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising rotary displacement means for allowing a rotation of said work performing member about at least one axis coinciding or parallel to one of the said group of three orthogonal cartesian axes. 6. The invention as defined in claim 5 and comprising two rotary displacement means for providing a rotation of said work performing member about two of said cartesian axes. 7. The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein said rotary displacement means comprises a single motor for rotation of said work performing member about two axes. 8. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a force sensor responsive to movement of said work performing member along at least one axis. 9. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said work performing member comprises a pincer. 10. The invention as defined in claim 9 wherein said pincer includes two jaws, the movement of which are pneumatically controlled by a double-acting cylinder. 11. The invention as defined in claim 9 and comprising a position transducer carried by said pincer. 12. The invention as defined in claim 1 and comprising a computer system having a first computer for control of operations external to said arm, and a second computer for the control and monitoring of said moving means. 13. The invention as defined in claim 12 wherein said first computer includes a microprocessor of the LIS 11 type and wherein said second computer includes a microprocessor of the INTEL 8080 type. 14. The invention as defined in claim 12 and comprising an operating control panel operatively connected to said first computer and a device for the manual control of the displacement of said work performing member connected to said second computer. 15. The invention as defined in claim 12 wherein said computer system includes individual monitoring and control blocks connected to said second computer for each of said moving means of said arm, said blocks operating simultaneously with said second computer. 16. The invention as defined in claim 12 wherein said computer system controls the operating of said moving means under automatic conditions, self-teaching conditions and manual displacement conditions. 17. A computer controlled robotic arm unit comprising: a fixed body, a carriage, first axis moving means for linearly moving said carriage to said fixed body along a first and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis, an elongated column, second axis moving means for vertically moving said column to said carriage along a second and substantially vertical cartesian axis, an arm carried by said column, said arm having a work performing member at one end, third axis moving means for linearly moving said arm along a third and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis, said third axis being perpendicular to said first axis, and a motor carried by said arm and means detachably connected to said motor for rotating said work performing member around any two user selected rotational orthogonal cartesian axes. 18. A computer controlled robotic arm unit comprising: a fixed body, a carriage, first axis moving means for linearly moving said carriage to said fixed body along a first and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis, an elongated column, second axis moving means for vertically moving said column to said carriage along a second and substantially vertical cartesian axis, an arm carried by said column, said arm having a work performing member at one end, third axis moving means for linearly moving said arm along a third and substantially horizontal orthogonal cartesian axis, said third axis being perpendicular to said first axis, at least two rotary displacement means for allowing a rotation of said work performing member about at least two axles parallel to two axes of the said group of three orthogonal cartesian axes, and wherein said rotary displacement means comprises a single motor for rotation of said work performing member about two axes. 19. The invention as defined in claim 18 wherein said rotary displacement means is pneumatically actuated. 