A compact low-cost drive for a robotic gripper system is disclosed having a rotationally driven shaft connected to an energy source for transmitting energy provided by the energy source to the gripper. An epicyclic gear arrangement is coupled to the shaft to convert the rotational motion of the shaft into a linear motion. At least one of the pins connected to the gears is linearly translateable in two directions under the control of the energy source. Fingers are recessed in the pins to facilitate gripping and releasing objects to be handled by the gripper system. A feedback means coupled between the energy source and the fingers can also be used to sense and control the position of the fingers.
Claims We claim: 1. A drive for a robotic gripper system comprising: energy means; a rotationally driven shaft means coupled to said energy means for transmitting energy provided by said energy means; an epicyclic gear system including at least, an internal gear, a floating gear which is retained against and within said internal gear, said shaft means driving an energy propagating gear which is operably connected to said floating gear for rotating said floating gear, wherein any point on the periphery of said floating gear travels in a linear direction; bidirectional linearly translateable pin means coupled to said floating gear; and finger means coupled to said pin means for gripping objects to be handled by said gripper system; the translation from rotary to linear motion occurring at said finger means; whereby objects to be handled by said gripper system are gripped and released under the control of said energy means. 2. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 1 further comprising: a feedback means coupled to said energy source and said finger means for sensing the position of said finger means. 3. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said epicyclic gear system includes: at least two floating gears fixed to said pin means, each of said floating gears being retained against and within a different one of said internal gears; at least two internal gears; each of said at least two internal gears coupled to a different one of said at least two floating gears; whereby said floating gears travel a circular path defined by the inner circumference of said internal gears. 4. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 1 or 2 wherein said epicyclic gear system includes: a first gear coupled to said shaft means; a second gear and a third gear in mesh with said first gear; a first shaft coupled to said second gear; a second shaft coupled to said third gear; a fourth gear coupled to said second gear; a fifth gear coupled to said third gear; a sixth gear in mesh with said fourth gear; a seventh gear in mesh with said fifth gear; an eighth gear fixed to said pin means and coupled to said fourth gear; a ninth gear fixed to said pin means and coupled to said fifth gear; a tenth gear coupled to said pin means and in mesh with said eighth gear; and an eleventh gear coupled to said pin means and in mesh with said ninth gear. 5. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 4 wherein said pin means includes: a first pin fixed to said eighth gear; a second pin fixed to said ninth gear; and a base having a slot; said base coupled to said tenth gear and said eleventh gear; whereby the path of bidirectional linear movement of said first pin and said second pin is defined by the circular path of said eighth gear and said ninth gear travelling within said tenth gear and said eleventh gear. 6. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 5 wherein said finger means includes: a first finger coupled to said first pin; and a second finger coupled to said second pin. 7. A drive for a robotic gripper system comprising: energy means; a rotationally driven shaft means coupled to said energy means for transmitting energy provided by said energy means; an epicyclic gear system including at least, an internal gear, a floating gear which is retained against and within said internal gear, said shaft means driving an energy propagating gear which is operably connected to said floating gear for rotating said floating gear, wherein any point on the periphery of said floating gear travels in a linear direction; bidirectional linearly translateable pin means coupled to said floating gear; and a base coupled to said gear means; bidirectional linearly translateable pin means coupled to said floating gear; and stationary pin means coupled to said base; and finger means coupled to said translateable pin means and said stationary pin means for gripping objects to be handled by said gripper system; whereby objects to be handled by said gripper system are gripped and released under the control of said energy means. 8. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 7 further comprising: a feedback means coupled to said energy source and said finger means for sensing the position of said finger means. 9. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 7 or 8 wherein said epicyclic gear system includes: at least two floating gears; at least one of said at least two floating gears fixed to said translateable pin means and each of said floating gears being retained against and within a different one of said internal gears; at least two internal gears; each of said at least two internal gears coupled to a different one of said at least two floating gears; whereby said floating gears travel a circular path defined by the inner circumference of said internal gears. 10. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 7 or 8 wherein said epicyclic gear system includes: a first gear coupled to said shaft means; a second gear and a third gear in mesh with said first gear; a first shaft coupled to said second gear; a second shaft coupled to said third gear; a fourth gear coupled to said second gear; a fifth gear coupled to said third gear; a sixth gear in mesh with said fourth gear; a seventh gear in mesh with said fifth gear; an eighth gear fixed to said translateable pin means and coupled to said fourth gear; a ninth gear coupled to said fifth gear; a tenth gear coupled to said translateable pin means and in mesh with said eighth gear; and an eleventh gear in mesh with said ninth gear. 11. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 10 wherein said translateable pin means includes: a pin fixed to said eighth gear; whereby the path of bidirectional linear movement of said pin is defined by the circular path of said eighth gear and said ninth gear travelling within said tenth gear and said eleventh gear. 12. A drive for a robotic gripper system according to claim 11 wherein said finger means includes: a first finger coupled to said pin; and a second finger coupled to said stationary pin means. 