An industrial robot is controlled to move by increments and approximately track an edge or a joint. A structured light pattern such as two parallel light bars is projected onto the workpiece and the scene is imaged by a visual sensor. Information derived from the image is used to compute move vectors. The navigation algorithm is based on extracting and computing the next move vector from the visual scene while the current move vector is being executed. The positioning system of an arc welding robot approximately follows the joint to be welded; the computed microvectors specify the direction and distance the positioning system moves.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling an arc welding torch and positioning system to track a joint in a workpiece to be welded, said arc welding torch having a light projector and an integral puddle view optical system, comprising the steps of: during the welding operation projecting a structured light pattern onto said workpieces and joint close to the weld puddle and producing images thereof with said integral optical system that are transmitted to a video camera and hence to a controller; computing a first move microvector from known positioning system parameters; capturing a first image and executing said first move while computing a second move microvector using parameters determined from said first image and from said positioning system; capturing a second image and executing said second move while computing a third move microvector using parameters determined from said second image and from said positioning system; said moves causing said positioning system to approximately follow said joint. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said positioning system has X, Y, and Z axes and a C axis rotatable about the last, and each microvector is calculated from navigation algorithms that give the incremental X and Y movement and change in C-axis angle to approximately follow said joint. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said structured light pattern is two thin, widely spaced parallel light bars, and the parameters extracted from each captured image are the distance along the light bars from the current position of the rotational C axis to both edges of said joint. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein said navigation algorithms have additional terms to account for a variable torch angle and offset of said torch from the rotational axis. 5. A method of controlling an industrial robot to move by increments to track at least one edge on a workpiece comprising the steps of: projecting a structured light pattern onto the workpiece intersecting and approximately perpendicular to said edge; producing images of the foregoing scene with an otpical lens system that are relayed to a controller; computing a first move microvector from robot parameters; capturing a first image and executing said first move while computing a second move microvector from parameters derived from said first image and robot; and capturing a second image and executing said second move while computing a third move microvector from parameters derived from said second image and robot; said moves causing said robot to approximately follow said edge. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said robot has a positioning system having a rotational axis and each microvector computed from parameters derived from said images gives the angle and distance for said robot positioning system to move. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said positioning system has X, Y and Z axes and said rotational axis is a C axis rotatable about the last, and each microvector specifies the incremental X, Y and C axis movements to follow said edge. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein said structured light pattern is only two thin, widely spaced parallel light bars which are kept approximately perpendicular to said edge. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the parameters derived from said images include the distance along each light bar from a reference to said edge, and said reference is the current C axis angle. 10. A method of controlling the positioning system of a welding robot, which has a rotational axis and a vision sensor, to track a joint in a workpiece, comprising the steps of: during the welding operation projecting a structured light pattern onto said workpiece approximately perpendicular to said joint and close to the weld puddle; viewing the foregoing scene with said vision sensor and sequentially capturing a plurality of images of said weld puddle, joint and structured light pattern that are transferred to a controller; and executing move vectors specifying the direction and distance for said positioning system to move by increments to approximately follow said joint; each move vector being computed from parameters extracted from one image and obtained from said positioning system; the next move vector being extracted and computed while the current move vector is executed. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said structured light pattern has only two spatially displaced pattern units whose geometry is known. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said parameters extracted from said images are the distances from a reference to the intersection of each pattern unit with the edges of said joint, and said reference is the current position of said rotational axis. 