An arc welding system with image acquisition utilizing a non-planar beam of electro-magnetic radiation, such as, a hollow conical beam of light, to illuminate at least a portion of the welding object is disclosed. The conical beam of light is generated by impinging a light beam on the surface of a concave, cylindrical reflector having a longitudinal axis that preferably is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the welding torch. The light beam enters the concave cylindrical reflector through the hollow shaft of a motor. Rotation of the motor angularly positions the reflected light beam on the welding object. The illuminated portion of the object is imaged on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals that are representative of the image on the array. These signals are used to obtain identification information concerning the welding object and guidance information for a plural axis manipulator that guides the welding torch tool along a welding seam. The image acquisition apparatus is optically and physically shielded from the welding arc by a replaceable shield.
Claims What we claim and desire to secure by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An arc welding apparatus comprising: A. a movable arc welding torch means; B. a conical beam generating apparatus comprising: (1) means for generating a beam of collimated light; (2) a rotatable reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; (3) means for rotating said reflective cylinder means; (4) beam directing mirror means secured with respect to and rotatable with said rotatable reflective cylinder means for directing said beam of collimated light to said reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the object to be welded, said conical beam generating apparatus being positioned with respect to and movable with said movable arc welding torch means; C. means for optically and physically shielding said beam generating apparatus from the welding arc created by said movable arc welding torch means during welding of the object; D. means for imaging at least part of the light beam illuminated portion of the object to be welded on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals; and, E. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the movement of said movable arc welding torch means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the longitudinal axis of said movable arc welding torch means and said reflective cylinder means are substantially parallel. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said utilization means produces control signals and further comprising plural axis manipulator means responsive to said control signals for manipulating said movable arc welding torch means and said conical beam generating apparatus. 4. An arc welding apparatus comprising: A. a movable arc welding torch means; B. a conical beam generating apparatus comprising: (1) means for generating a beam of collimated light; (2) a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; (3) motor means having a hollow, rotatable motor shaft; (4) beam directing mirror means secured with respect to and rotatable with said hollow rotatable motor shaft for directing said beam of collimated light that passes through said hollow, rotatable motor shaft to said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the object to be welded, said conical beam generating apparatus being positioned with respect to and movable with said movable arc welding torch means; C. means for optically and physically shielding said beam generating apparatus from the welding arc created by said movable arc welding torch means during welding of the object; D. means for imaging at least part of the light beam illuminated portion of the object to be welded on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals; and, E. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the movement of said movable arc welding torch means. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the longitudinal axis of said movable arc welding torch means and said reflective cylinder means are substantially parallel. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said utilization means produces control signals and further comprising plural axis manipulator means responsive to said control signals for manipulating said movable arc welding torch means and said conical beam generating apparatus. 7. An arc welding apparatus comprising: A. a movable arc welding torch means; B. a conical beam generating apparatus comprising: (1) means for generating a beam of collimated light; (2) a rotatable reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; (3) means for rotating said reflective cylinder means; (4) beam directing mirror means secured with respect to and rotatable with said rotatable reflective cylinder means for directing said beam of collimated light to said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the object to be welded; C. mounting means for securing said conical beam generating apparatus with respect to said movable arc welding torch means so that the conical beam generating apparatus moves with the movable arc welding torch means; D. a replaceable shield means for optically and physically shielding said beam generating apparatus from the welding arc created by said movable arc welding torch means during welding of the object; E. means for imaging at least part of the light beam illuminated portion of the object to be welded on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the movement of said movable arc welding torch means. 8. An arc welding apparatus comprising: A. a movable arc welding torch means; B. a conical beam generating apparatus comprising: (1) means for generating a beam of collimated light; (2) a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; (3) motor means having a hollow, rotatable motor shaft; (4) beam directing mirror means secured with respect to and rotatable with said hollow rotatable motor shaft for directing said beam of collimated light that passes through said hollow, rotatable motor shaft to said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the object to be welded; C. mounting means for securing said conical beam generating apparatus with respect to said arc welding torch means so that the conical beam generating means moves with the movable arc welding torch means; D. a replaceable shield means for optically and physically shielding said beam generating apparatus from the welding arc created by said movable arc welding torch means during welding of the object; E. means for imaging at least part of the light beam illuminated portion of the object to be welded on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals; and, F. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the movement of said movable arc welding torch means. 9. An arc welding apparatus comprising: A. a movable arc welding torch means; B. a conical beam generating apparatus comprising: (1) means for generating a beam of collimated light; (2) a rotatable reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; (3) means for rotating said reflective cylinder means; (4) beam directing mirror means secured with respect to and rotatable with said rotatable reflective cylinder means directing said beam of collimated light to said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the object to be welded said conical beam generating apparatus being postioned with respect to and movable with said movable arc welding torch means; (5) shield means for optically and physically shielding said beam generating apparatus from the welding arc created by said movable arc welding torch means during welding of the object; (6) end cap means having an annular bore through which said conical beam of light passes, said end cap means having means for frictionally engaging at least a portion of said shield means so that said shield means can be removed from said end cap means; C. means for imaging at least part of the light beam illuminated portion of the object to be welded on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals; and, D. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the movement of said movable arc welding torch means. 10. An arc welding apparatus comprising: A. a movable arc welding torch means; B. a conical beam generating apparatus comprising: (1) means for generating a beam of collimated light; (2) a reflective cylinder means having a concave reflective surface; (3) motor means having a hollow, rotatable motor shaft; (4) beam directing mirror means secured with respect to and rotatable with said hollow rotatable motor shaft for directing said beam of collimated light that passes through said hollow, rotatable motor shaft to said concave reflective surface to produce a conical beam of light having an angular arc that (i) is a function of the radius of the concave reflective surface and the width of the collimated light beam impinging thereon and (ii) illuminates at least a portion of the object to be welded, said conical beam generating apparatus being positioned with respect to and movable with said movable arc welding torch means; (5) shield means for optically and physically shielding said beam generating apparatus from the welding arc created by said movable arc welding torch means during welding of the object; (6) end cap means having an annular bore through which said conical beam of light passes, said end cap means having means for frictionally engaging at least a portion of said shield means so that said shield means can be removed from said end cap means; C. means for imaging at least part of the light beam illuminated portion of the object to be welded on an array of photosensitive elements to produce corresponding signals; and, D. utilization means responsive to said signals for controlling the movement of said movable arc welding torch means. 