A light beam directing apparatus is described which permits a reflected collimated beam of light, such as a laser, to be directed in a path which comprises a plurality of straight segments. Each segment of the beam is associated with a segment of a robot's arm in a fixed spatial relationship.
Claims What I claim is: 1. In combination with a robotic system having one or more mechanical joints defining at least in part a first axis of motion and a second axis of motion, which axes of motion define a contoured path through the robotic systems geometric range of motion, wherein each of said mechanical joints defines in part a frame member; an integral laser beam delivery system for the delivery of a beam along any point within said geometric range of motion comprising: an optical joint having a housing with a reflective surface disposed therein mounted on the frame member of each said mechanical joint so as to be in synchronous association with each said mechanical joint; a tubular member disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular member the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint, said tubular member being rigidly attached between the frame member of each mechanical joints with which said adjacent optical joints are in synchronous association, wherein said reflective surface establishes a constant geometric relation between a segment of the beam impinging on said reflective surface and the axes of motion associated with said mechanical joints whereby the optical joints along with the tubular members dispose therebetween and each axis of motion are synchronous and incapable of mutual interference. 2. The combination with a robotic system of claim 1, further comprising: means for producing a collimated beam of light, extending from a first point at said producing means to a second point on said mirror surface, said joint member being attached to said support member in such a way that said joint member is movable about a preselected axis of motion, said axis of motion extending from said first point to said second point. 3. The combination with a robotic system of claim 2, further comprising: means for focusing said collimated beam of light to a focal point which is a preselected distance from said joint member. 4. The combination with a robotic system according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the axes of motion is rectilinear. 5. The combination with a robotic system according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the axes of motion is rotational. 6. The combination with a robotic system according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the axes of motion is both rectilinear and rotational. 7. A laser beam delivery system, for use in combination with a robot comprising: a support member; an optical joint slidably attached to said support member in such a way as to be movable along an axis of motion, said axis of motion defining both an axis of rotation about which said optical joint is rotatable and an axis of rectilinear movement along which said optical joint is axially movable; a motor attached to said optical joint whose rotor is coaxial with said axis of rotation for effecting the movement of said optical joint about said axis of motion; and means for causing said optical joint to move about said axis of rectilinear movement operatively associated with said optical joint, said means for causing comprising a device whose direction of linear motion is parallel to said axis of rectilinear movement, wherein said optical joint has a mirror surface therein, said mirror surface being disposed in such a way as to be intersected by said axis of motion, said mirror surface being adjustable relative to said optical joint. 8. The laser beam delivery system for use in combination with a robot according to claim 7 wherein the optical joint includes a frame member relative to which frame member the mirror surface is adjustable by means of adjusting means. 9. The laser beam delivery system for use in combination with a robot according to claim 8 wherein the adjusting means comprise at least one threaded member connected in threaded association with the frame member. 