The invention is directed to a method and apparatus for handling a component having a body and one or more members protruding therefrom, such that the protruding members are put in proper, mating registration with corresponding holes of a substrate or the like. The components are handled during transport and insertion by gripping of the bodies thereof, and the method and apparatus of the invention compensates for any offset in X, Y, and .theta. between the profile of the body and a particular pattern or location of the protruding members relative to the profile of the body.
Claims Now that the invention has been described, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A method of automated compensating for misalignment of a surface profile of a first body from a pattern on a bottom of said first body and mating said first body pattern within a specified tolerance, with a corresponding pattern on a top of a second body, said method comprising the steps of: providing a gage pattern in spaced relation from and having the same orientation as said second body pattern; engaging and gripping said first body at a first station by clamping at least a portion of said surface in a gripper assembly of a translatable head assembly; said gripper assembly being floatable relative to said head assembly within a floatation plane; translating said head assembly, after attaining said gripping, from said first station to a second station having said gage pattern; engaging and guiding said first body pattern with said gage pattern, and mating said first body and gage patterns within said specified tolerance; fixing said gripper assembly relative to said head assembly in said floatation plane; and disengaging said first body and gage patterns after said fixing, and translating said head assembly and gripped first body to a third station having said second body, and mating said first and second body patterns within said specified tolerance. 2. A method as in claim 1, and further comprising the steps of: ungripping said first body at said second station prior to said guiding; and regripping said first body by said gripper assembly, after said mating at said second station and prior to said fixing. 3. A method as in claim 2, and further comprising the step of: seating flush with a gage surface said first body during said mating at said second station, such that said first body is positioned a specifiable distance within said gripper assembly in a direction generally perpendicular to said floatation plane during said fixing. 4. A method as in claim 2, wherein said first body pattern comprises at least one member protruding from said bottom and said second body pattern comprises at least one recess in said second body top, and further comprising the step of: inserting said protruding member into said recess during said mating according to registration of said patterns. 5. A method as in claim 4, wherein said first body pattern further comprises at least one recess in said first body bottom and said second body pattern further comprises at least one member protruding from said second body top, and further comprising the step of: inserting said protruding members into said recesses according to registration of said patterns during said mating. 6. A method as in claim 2, wherein said second body comprises at least one recess in said second body top, and said first body pattern comprises at least one member protruding from said first body bottom. 7. A method as in claim 2, wherein said first body pattern comprises at least one solder bump on said bottom and said second body pattern comprises at least one lead connection point on said top, and further comprising the step of: connecting said solder bump and said lead connection poinnt according to registration of said patterns during said mating. 8. A method as in claim 4, and further comprising the step of: straightening said protruding member during said guiding. 9. An apparatus to accomplish automated compensating for misalignment of a surface profile of a first body from a pattern on a bottom of said first body and mating said first body pattern, within a specified tolerance, with a corresponding pattern on a top of a second body, said apparatus comprising: a gage pattern in spaced relation from and having the same orientation as said second body pattern; means for engaging and gripping said first body at a first station by clamping at least a portion of said surface in a gripper assembly of a translatable head assembly; said gripper assembly being floatable relative to said head assembly within a floatation plane; means for translating said head assembly, after attaining said gripping, from said first station to a second station having said gage pattern; means for engaging and guiding said first body pattern with said gage pattern, and for mating said first body and gage patterns within said specified tolerance; means for fixing said gripper assembly relative to said head assembly in said floatation plane; and means for disengaging said first body and gage patterns after said fixing, and for translating said head assembly and gripped first body to a third station having said second body, and for mating said first and second body patterns, within said specified tolerance. 10. An apparatus as in claim 9, and further comprising: means for ungripping said first body at said second station prior to said guiding, and for regripping said first body by said gripper assembly after said mating at said second station and prior to said fixing. 11. An apparatus as in claim 10, and further comprising: means for seating flush with a gage surface said first body bottom during said mating at said second station, such that said first body is positioned a specificable distance within said gripper assembly in a direction generally perpendicular to said floatation plane. 12. An apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said first body pattern comprises at least one member protruding from said bottom and said second body pattern comprises at least one recess in said second body top for receiving said protruding member. 13. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said first body pattern further comprises at least one recess in said first body bottom and said second body pattern further comprises at least one member protruding from said second body top. 14. An apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said second body comprises at least one recess in said second body top and said first body pattern comprises at least one member protruding from said first body bottom. 15. An apparatus as in claim 10, wherein said first body pattern comprises at least one solder bump on said bottom and said second body pattern comprises at least one lead connection point on said top. 16. An apparatus as in claim 12, and further comprising: means for straightening said protruding member during said guiding. 17. An apparatus for automated compensating for an offset between nominal lead patterns and actual lead patterns of components, each of said components comprising a body and at least one lead depending from said body to define said actual lead pattern, to provide for proper mating of component leads into substrate holes defining a hole pattern corresponding to said nominal lead pattern, said offset being defineable in a planar coordinate system by X, Y, .theta. and combinations thereof, said apparatus comprising: a gage comprising at least one gage hole defining a reference pattern having hole axes superimposable with hole axes of said hole pattern, and means for guiding said component leads engaged therewith and mating said actual lead pattern with said reference pattern to effect said offset compensating; means for transporting said component to said gage means at a first station and engaging said leads with said lead-in means for mating of said actual lead pattern and said reference pattern; means for gripping said body and removing said component from said gage upon mating of said actual lead pattern and said reference pattern and for retaining said offset compensating; and means for transporting said component to a second station and inserting said leads into said substrate holes while retaining said offset compensating. 18. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said transporting means comprises: a head assembly having an axis; and a gripper assembly floatable and lockable in said head assembly relative to a floatation plane generally perpendicular to said head assembly axis and comprising said gripping means, such that floating of said gripper assembly at said first station upon effecting said compensating, and subsequent locking of said gripper assembly relative to said head assembly, provides said retaining. 19. An apparatus as in claim 18, and further comprising: means for ungripping said component body at said first station prior to said offset compensating and for regripping said component body at said first station after said offset compensating to effect said retaining. 20. An apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said guiding means comprises: generally conical-shaped lead-in portions of said gage holes. 21. An apparatus as in claim 17, and further comprising: means for straightening said leads. 