A spot welding gun adapted for use in robotic welding in which the electrode holding arms of the gun are each turnably journalled on an attachment means. One of the electrode holding arms or an operating lever thereof supports a cam member with a cam surface thereon. A pressure roller acts against said cam surface during transport of the welding gun between welding points and thereby holds each electrode holding arm in a respective fixed position relative to the attachment means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A scissor-type spot welding gun for use with a robot, said spot welding gun comprising an attachment means capable of connection to the arm of a robot, first and second electrode-holding arms, mounting means supporting said first and second electrode-holding arms on said attachment means and permitting said first and second electrode-holding arms to pivot relative to one another between an open relative positioning and a closed relative positioning, a first operating means connected between said first and second electrode-holding arms, said first operating means applying a bias on said first and second electrode-holding arms to pivot them into their closed relative positioning, and a second operating means cooperable with said first and second electrode-holding arms to cause them to pivot relative to one another into their open relative positioning, said second operating means including a cam member on one of said first and second electrode-holding arms, said cam member being movable with its associated electrode-holding arm and providing an open concave cam surface, an actuation means movably mounted in said attachment means so as to be movable toward and away from said cam member, said actuation means including an abutment element for contacting the cam surface of said cam member, and a pressure means for moving said actuation means towards said cam member such that the abutment element thereon will contact the cam surface of said cam member, said actuation means, under the influence of said pressure means, being capable of moving said cam member and its associated electrode-holding arm such that said first and second electrode-holding arms will pivot relative to one another against the bias of said first operating means and into their open relative positioning. 2. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 1, wherein said abutment element comprises a roller. 3. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 2, wherein said attachment means includes a channel therein, wherein said actuation means includes a rod which mounts said roller at one end and extends into said channel and a piston which is attached to said rod at a point within said channel, and wherein said pressure means comprises a spring which abuts against said piston. 4. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 3, wherein an end closure means is mounted over said channel in said attachment means, said end closure means including an opening through which said rod sealingly slides and a passage means through which fluid can pass to push said piston against the force exerted thereon by said spring. 5. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 1, wherein said cam surface is V-shaped. 6. A scissor-type spot welding gun for use with a robot, said spot welding gun comprising an attachment means capable of connection to the arm of a robot, first and second electrode-holding arms, mounting means supporting said first and second electrode-holding arms on said attachment means and permitting said first and second electrode-holding arms to pivot relative to one another between an open relative positioning and a closed relative positioning, a first operating means connected between said first and second electrode-holding arms, said first operating means applying a bias on said first and second electrode-holding arms to pivot them into their closed relative positioning, and a second operating means cooperable with said first and second electrode-holding arms to cause them to pivot relative to one another into their open relative positioning, said second operating means including an abutment element on one of said first and second electrode-holding arms, said abutment element being movable with its associated electrode-holding arm, an actuation means movably mounted in said attachment means so as to be movable toward and away from said abutment element, said actuation means including a cam member providing an open concave cam surface which faces said abutment element, and a pressure means for moving said actuation means towards said abutment element such that the open concave cam surface of said cam member will contact said abutment element, said actuation means, under the influence of said pressure means, being capable of moving said abutment element and its associated electrode-holding arm such that said first and second electrode-holding arms will pivot relative to one another against the bias of said first operating means and into their open relative positioning. 7. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 6, wherein said abutment element comprises a roller. 8. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 7, wherein said attachment means includes a channel therein, wherein said actuation means includes a rod which mounts said cam member at one end and extends into said channel and a piston which is attached to said rod at a point within said channel, and wherein said pressure means comprises a spring which abuts against said piston. 9. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 8, wherein an end closure means is mounted over said channel in said attachment means, said end closure means including an opening through which said rod sealingly slides and a passage means through which fluid can pass to push said piston against the force exerted thereon by said spring. 10. The spot welding gun as defined in claim 6, wherein said cam surface is V-shaped. 