An electro-optical sensor probe is removably mounted on a conventional machine tool, for example, at a location whereat a tool would normally be mounted, for sensing the condition of a workpiece. Signals received by the sensor probe can be conveyed to a control location either by radio telemetry or across electrical and/or fiber optic lines operationally coupled to the sensor probe. Alternatively, robot based positioning of said probes is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining a dimension and a surface characteristic of an object comprising: providing a machine comprising means for interchangeably positioning sensor members in an operative position on said machine; providing a plurality of different sensor members, each sensor member being positionable in said operative position and comprising optical means mounted therein for receiving light from an object or from a contact member in contact with said object and for conveying said light out of said sensor member, said optical means of a first sensor member being constructed and arranged for determining a dimension of an object and said optical means of a second sensor member being constructed and arranged for determining a surface characteristic of an object; providing an image scanning light detector remote from said sensor for detecting said light conveyed out of said sensor member; positioning said first sensor member in said operative position on said machine; directing light onto an object or onto a contact member in contact with an object whereby light from said object or contact member is received by said optical means of said first sensor member and is directed out of said first sensor member and to said remote image scanning light detector; determining, from light detected by said remote image scanning light detector, a dimension of said object; positioning said second sensor member in said operative position on said machine; directing light onto an object or onto a contact member in contact with an object whereby light from said object or contact member is received by said optical means of said second sensor member and is conveyed out of said sensor member and to said image scanning light detector; and determining, from light detected by said image scanning light detector, a surface characteristic of said object. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein each of said sensor members comprises a window and wherein said light directed out of said sensor member is directed through said window. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said light is directed onto said object or contact member from a source located remote from said sensor member. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein said light is directed from said remote source into each of said sensor members and from each of said sensor members onto said object or contact member. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said light is directed into and out of each of said sensor members through fiber optic means. 6. A method according to claim 1 further comprising conveying a cooling or cleaning fluid from a remote source into each of said sensor members and directing said fluid out of each of said sensor members and onto a surface of said object onto which said light is directed. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein each of said sensor members is rotated. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein each of said sensor members comprises a contact member mounted therein, said contact member being mounted to contact said object. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein a robot is utilized to position each of said sensor members in said operative position. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensor member positioning means comprises a turret. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein said image scanning light detector comprises a plurality of discrete photodetectors. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein said photodetectors comprise photodiodes. 13. A method according to claim 1 wherein the light received by said optical means of and directed out of said first and second sensor members comprises a light pattern. 14. A method according to claim 1 which said light directed out of said first and second sensor members is imaged on said image scanning light detector. 15. A method according to claim 1 which each of said first and second sensor members comprises a lens for forming an image of the light received by said optical means. 16. Apparatus for determining a dimension and a surface characteristic of an object comprising; means for interchangeably positioning a sensor member in an operative position on said apparatus; a plurality of different sensor members, each sensor member being positionable in said operative position and comprising optical means mounted therein for receiving light from an object or from a contact member in contact with said object and for conveying said light out of said sensor member, said optical means of a first sensor member being constructed and arranged for determining a dimension of an object and said optical means of a second sensor member being constructed and arranged for determining a surface characteristic of an object; an image light scanning detector remote from said sensor for detecting said light conveyed out of said sensor member; means for positioning said first sensor member in said operative position; means for directing light onto an object or onto a contact member in contact with an object whereby light from said object or contact member is directed out of said first sensor member and to said remote image scanning light detector; means for determining, from light detected by said remote image scanning light detector, a dimension of said object; means for positioning said second sensor member in said operative position on said machine; means for directing light onto an object or onto a contact member in contact with an object whereby light from said object or contact member is received by said optical means of said second sensor member and is conveyed out of said second sensor member and to said remote image scanning light detector; and means for determining, from light detected by said image scanning light detector, a surface characteristic of said object. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein each of said sensor members comprise a window whereby said light directed out of said sensor member is directed through said window. 18. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said light directing means comprises a light source located remote from each of said sensor members. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said optical means comprises means for receiving light from said remote source and for directing the received light onto said object or contact member. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said light is directed into and out of each of said sensor members through fiber optic means. 21. Apparatus according to claim 16 further comprising means for conveying a cooling or cleaning fluid from a remote source into said sensor member in an operative position and for directing said fluid out of said sensor member and onto a surface of said object onto which said light is directed. 22. Apparatus according to claim 16 further comprising means for rotating each of said sensor members in said operative position. 23. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein each of said sensor members comprises a contact member mounted therein, said contact member being mounted to contact said object. 24. Apparatus according to claim 16 further comprising robot means for positioning said sensor member in said operative position. 25. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said sensor member positioning means comprises a turret. 26. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said image scanning light detector comprises a plurality of discrete photodetectors. 27. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said photodetectors comprise photodiodes. 28. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein said optical means comprises means for receiving and conveying a pattern of said light. 29. Apparatus according to claim 16 further comprising means for imaging said light on said image scanning light detector. 30. Apparatus according to claim 16 wherein each of said sensor members comprises a lens for forming an image of the light received by said optical means. 