An acoustic sensor and method of using same for determining the position of a tool from a workpiece are disclosed in which a piezoelectric transducer having a curved surface emits a sound wave which strikes the workpiece and is reflected back to the sensor. The sensor and tool are positioned relative to one another so that the workpiece will be near the focal point of the curved surface when the tool is operating. This positioning substantially overcomes the attenuation problems of high frequency sound waves transmitted through air.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sensing the position of a tool relative to a workpiece comprising the steps of: (a) placing a piezoelectric transducer having a curved surface with a single focal point above the workpiece so that the workpiece will be not more than six inches from the focal point of the curved surface; (b) moving the transducer relative to the workpiece; (c) applying a voltage to the transducer in a manner so as to cause the transducer to emit sound waves toward the workpiece while the transducer is at different positions relative to the workpiece; (d) allowing each sound wave to be reflected back from the workpiece to the transducer and to strike the transducer at some time period after the sound wave was emitted; (e) measuring the time period between emission of each sound wave and the striking of the transducer by that sound wave, and (f) converting each measured time period into a distance thereby obtaining a surface profile of the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 also comprising the step of shielding the transducer from outside interference. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the voltage is applied in pulses. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the pulse is repeated at regular time intervals in the range of one nanosecond to ten microseconds. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the focal point is 2 to 6 inches from the curved surface. 6. A method for sensing the position of a tool relative to a workpiece comprising the steps of: (a) placing a plurality of piezoelectric transducers each having a curved surface with a single focal point above the workpiece so that the workpiece will be not more than six inches from the focal point of the curved surfaces of the transducers; (b) moving the transducers relative to the workpiece; (c) applying a voltage to at least one transducer in a manner so as to cause the transducer to emit sound waves toward the workpiece while the transducer is at different positions relative to the workpiece; (d) allowing each sound wave to be reflected back from the workpiece to at least one transducer and to strike the transducer at some time period after the sound wave was emitted; (e) measuring the time period between emission of each sound wave and the striking of the transducer by that sound wave; and (f) converting each measured time period into a distance thereby obtaining a surface profile of the workpiece. 7. The method of claim 6 also comprising the step of shielding the transducer from outside interference. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein a voltage is applied to the transducers in a matter so as to cause the transducers to emit signals sequentially. 