A wire storage and feed system for a robotic welding system in which the wire storage and feed system is mounted on the movable robot arm which has the welding gun disposed at the extending end of the robot arm. The wire storage and feed system includes a wire storage reel and wire feed drive which are movably mounted on the robot arm. A constant force spring is attached to the movable portion of the wire storage and feed system to maintain a constant tension on the welding gun, with counterweight connected to the movable portion, with the counterweight moving opposite to the movable portion of the wire storage and feed system to permit accurate positioning of the welding gun irrespective of robot arm movement and position.
Claims I claim: 1. A wire storage and feed system for a metal inert gas welding system in which a welding gun is disposed at the extending end of a maneuverable robot arm, which wire storage and feed system comprises: (a) wire storage and feed drive means disposed on a mounting plate which is movably mounted on the robot arm and movable in the direction of robot arm extension; (b) wire conduit means connecting the welding gun and the wire storage and feed drive means; (c) constant force spring means connecting the wire storage and fed drive means mounting plate to the robot arm, and counterweight means connected to the wire storage and feed drive means mounting plate; and (d) pulley means spaced apart along the robot arm with connector means extending from opposed ends of the counterweight means to the wire storage and feed drive means mounting plate over respective spaced apart pulley means, with the counterweight and the constant force spring means maintaining a constant tension on the welding gun irrespective of movement or positioning of the robot arm and welding gun. 2. The wire storage and feed system set forth in claim 1, wherein the wire storage means comprises welding electrode wire wound on a reel, and wherein wire straightening means are disposed between the wire storage reel and wire feed drive means. 3. The wire storage and feed system set forth in claim 1, wherein a base plate is rigidly fastened to but electrically insulated from the robot arm and wherein a pair of spaced apart guide rails extend along the base plate and counterweight means are slidably mounted upon said guide rails. 4. The wire storage and feed system set forth in claim 3, wherein the pulley means are mounted at opposed corners of the base plate. 5. The wire storage and feed system set forth in claim 3, wherein the movable mounting plate is mounted along a guide rail supported from the base plate, and wherein a plurality of roller means extend from the underside of the movable mounting plate supporting the movable mounting plate upon the base plate. 6. A wire storage and feed system for a metal inert gas welding system in which a welding gun is disposed at the extending end of a maneuverable robot arm, which wire storage and feed system comprises: (a) wire storage and feed drive means disposed on a mounting plate which is movably mounted on the robot arm and movable in the direction of robot arm extension; (b) wire conduit means connecting the welding gun and the wire storage and feed drive means; (c) base plate rigidly fastened to but electrically insulated from the robot arm with a guide rail supported from the base plate with the movable mounting plate mounted along the guide rail, and wherein a plurality of roller means extend from the underside of the movable mounting plate further supporting the movable mounting plate upon the base plate; (d) constant force spring means connecting the wire storage and feed drive means mounting plate to the base plate on the robot arm, and counterweight means connected to the wire storage and feed drive means mounting plate; and (e) pulley means spaced apart along the base plate on the robot arm with connector means extending from opposed ends of the counterweight means to the wire storage and feed drive means mounting plate over respective spaced apart pulley means, with the counterweight and the constant force spring means maintaining a constant tension on the welding gun irrespective of movement or positioning of the robot art and welding gun. 