A stereoscopic remote viewing system includes a pair of spaced apart cameras mounted on a platform which is movable along a semicircular support track for azimuth aiming of the cameras. The track is pivotable about a diametric axis for elevation aiming of the cameras. The cameras are connected through selection switches to a head worn video display unit having a pair of cathode ray tubes (CRT's) mounted therein. Lenses and mirrors are positioned to project the images reproduced by the CRT's indirectly into the eyes of a viewer. A digital computer is connected through the selection switches and is employed for the storage and retrieval of texts and graphic information related to the operations viewed with the system.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A stereoscopic remote viewing system comprising: (a) a pair of spaced apart image sensor means providing a left video signal and a right video signal, said video signals representing scenes as sensed by said image sensor means; (b) camera platform means having said image sensor means mounted thereon for convergence of lines of sight of said sensor means substantially at a subject to be viewed; (c) camera platform aiming means supporting said platform means for movement in three dimensions to selectively aim said image sensor means; (d) platform aiming motor means connected with said aiming means to move said aiming means; (e) aiming control motor means connected to said motor means for manipulation by a viewer using said viewing system to aim said camera platform means; (f) a pair of video display devices operatively connected respectively to said image sensor means to receive said left and right video signals and displaying images which are reproductions of scenes sensed by said image sensor means; and (g) head unit means supporting said video display devices for viewing the images reproduced by said display devices, said head unit means being adapted for wearing on the head by said viewer. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 including: (a) computer means for the storage and retrieval of text and graphic information; and (b) video source selector means for selectively connecting said video display devices to said computer means and said image sensor means. 3. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein: (a) said video display devices are cathode ray tubes (CRT's); and (b) said head unit means includes optical elements positioned to project images reproduced on said CRT's indirectly into the eyes of said viewer. 4. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein each image sensor means includes: (a) an image sensor device; (b) optic means positioned in relation to said image sensor device to define a line of sight of said image sensor device; and (c) a focus motor connected to said optic means for positioning said optic means to focus a scene at a focal point along said line of sight on said image sensor device. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 wherein each image sensor means includes: (a) a zoom motor connected to said optic means to vary the optical perspective of said scene as focused on said image sensor device. 6. A system as set forth in claim 5 including: (a) convergence motor means connected between said image sensor means and said camera platform means for movement of said image sensor means to intersect the lines of sight of said image sensor means for substantial coincidence of the focal points of said image sensor means. 7. A system as set forth in claim 5 including: (a) autofocus means connected to the focus motors and the zoom motors to maintain the focus of said image sensor means during the operation of said zoom motors. 8. A system as set forth in claim 4 including: (a) focal balance control means operatively connected to the focus motors for the fine adjustment of the focus positions of said optic means to compensate for the individual visual acuities of the eyes of said viewer. 9. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said camera platform aiming means includes: (a) a substantially semicircular platform track; (b) platform track support means supporting said platform track for elevation pivoting about a horizontal diametric axis of said track; and (c) said camera platform means being supported on said track for movement therealong. 10. A system as set forth in claim 9 wherein said platform aiming motor means includes: (a) an azimuth motor engaged between said platform means and said track for movement of said platform means along said track to motivate the azimuth aiming of said platform; and (b) an elevation motor engaged between said track and said track support means to pivot said track about said diametric axis to motivate the elevation aiming of said platform means. 11. A system as set forth in claim 10 including: (a) a rack gear extending along said platform track; (b) said azimuth motor being mounted on said camera track support means and having a rotary shaft; and (c) a helical gear positioned on said shaft and engaging said rack gear whereby rotation of said shaft urges said platform means along said platform track. 12. A system as set forth in claim 10 including: (a) a pinion gear affixed to said platform track, said gear having a gear axis positioned coaxially with said diametric axis of said track; (b) said elevation motor being mounted on said platform means and having a rotary shaft; and (c) a helical gear positioned on said shaft and engaging said pinion gear whereby rotation of said shaft causes the pivoting of said platform track about said diametric axis. 13. A system as set forth in claim 1 in combination with: (a) robotic tool means manually controlled by a wearer of said head unit means for viewing the operations performed by said tool means with said viewing system. 14. A stereoscopic remote viewing system comprising: (a) a pair of spaced apart image sensor means providing a left video signal and a right video signal, said video signals representing scenes as sensed by said image sensor means; (b) camera platform means having said image sensor means mounted thereon for convergence of lines of sight of said sensor means substantially at a subject to be viewed; (c) a substantially semicircular platform track; (d) platform track support means supporting said platform track for elevation pivoting about a horizontal diametric axis of said track; (e) said camera platform means being supported on said track for movement therealong; (f) an azimuth motor engaged between said platform means and said track for movement of said platform means along said track to motivate the azimuth aiming of said platform; (g) an elevation motor engaged between said track and said track support means to pivot said track about said diametric axis to motivate the elevation aiming of said platform means; (h) camera aiming control means connected to said azimuth and elevation motors for manipulation by a viewer using said viewing system to aim said camera platform means; (i) a pair of cathode ray tubes (CRT's) operatively connected respectively to said image sensor means to receive said left and right video signals and displaying images which are reproductions of scenes sensed by said image sensor means; (j) head unit means supporting said CRT's for viewing the images reproduced thereby, said head unit means being adapted for wearing on the head by said viewer; (k) said head unit means including optical elements positioned to project images reproduced on said CRT's indirectly into the eyes of said viewer; (l) computer means for the storage and retrieval of text and graphic information; and (m) video source selector means for selectively connecting said CRT's to said computer means to display said text and graphic information and said image sensor means to display images of scenes sensed by said image sensor means. 