Robotic handling of printed circuit boards stored within a tote box is facilitated by the use of a structurally integrated insert within the tote box that is adjustable to accommodate boards of various widths and heights. The insert includes a locating element that extends through the tote box for contact by the locating apparatus of the robot and thus precisely establish the location of each circuit board.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination with a tote box, insert for precisely locating and holding printed circuit boards, said insert comprising: a frame receivable within the box to be freely carried therein for holding and storing printed circuit boards; and at least one locating element on the frame extending through the tote box in an unsecured manner so as to be exposed relative to the tote box, said locating element being constructed and arranged to provide for direct engagement by an external work station apparatus. 2. The invention according to claim 1 wherein said frame comprises: a first wall having at least one vertically extending slot in the exposed face for receiving one edge of a printed circuit board; a second wall parallel to, but spaced apart from said first wall; a plurality of cross struts extending between said first and second walls; a medial wall having strut receiving passageways for receiving said cross struts so that said medial wall is slidable along said cross struts toward and away from one of said walls, said medial wall having at least one vertically extending slot in the face thereof opposing one of said walls for receiving the other of the edges of the printed circuit board; and a locking mechanism on said medial wall engageable with the struts to lock the medial wall to the cross struts at a selected spacing from one of said walls to said cross struts. 3. The invention according to claim 2 wherein each said first and second walls comprise side walls and said side and medial walls carry height adjusters on their facing surfaces for adjusting the depth to which a circuit board is received within the slots in said walls. 4. The invention according to claim 3 wherein said locking mechanism comprises: strut receiving passageways defined by said walls; a pair of slots in each edge of the side walls adjacent to the top and bottom of said side walls so as to communicate with the strut receiving passageways through said side walls, said slots partially bifurcating each edge of the side wall into an upper and lower pincer and a central edge portion; a shaft having a head at one end and a flattened end at the other, said shaft vertically disposed through said side wall outwardly of the strut receiving passageways so that the head of said shaft bears against the lower pincer and said flattened shaft and extends through the upper pincer; a locking cam which has a recess therein for receiving the flattened end of said shaft so that said locking cam bears against said upper pincer; and said locking cam connected to said shaft so that when actuated, said locking cam causes said pincers to be urged towards one another to lock the side walls to the cross struts. 5. The invention according to claim 2 wherein said locking mechanism comprises a set screw threaded through one of the walls to bear against a cross strut. 6. The invention according to claim 2 wherein said locking mechanism comprises a spring clip having a central body portion secured to one of said walls and at least one outwardly extending arm having an aperture for receiving one of said cross struts so that said arm bears against said cross strut. 7. The invention according to claim 3 wherein said height adjustment mechanism comprises: at least one vertically extending passage in each edge of the side wall; at least one strip having hooks at each end thereof, said strip extending horizontally across the face of the side wall and the hooked ends of said strip each engaging each of said passages so that said strip may move freely up and down until the weight of a circuit board against said strip causes said strip to become cocked to prevent strip movement. 8. The invention according to claim 3 wherein said height adjustment mechanism comprises: a pair of threaded rods, each vertically extending through a separate one of the edges of one of said side walls so that the threads on each of said rods are exposed; a pair of threaded members each carried by each of said rods so as to move vertically along said rods upon rod rotation; and a bar extending horizontally along the face of one of said side walls outwardly from said side wall slot, each end of said bar secured to each of said threaded members on each of said threaded rods so that said bar is moved vertically upon rotation of each of said threaded rods. 9. The invention according to claim 3 wherein said height adjustment means comprises: a circuit board supporting bar extending horizontally across the face of one of said side walls; first and second vertically oriented guides mounted at each end of one of said side walls so as to be outwardly of said side wall for slidably supporting each end of said bar; and locking means for locking each end of said circuit board supporting bar to a separate one of said first and second vertical guides. 10. The invention according to claim 9 wherein said locking means comprises a thumb screw threaded into each end of said circuit board supporting bar for locking said circuit board supporting member to a separate one of said first and second vertical guides. 11. The invention according to claim 9 wherein said locking means comprises a spring clip mounted to each end of said circuit board supporting member for yieldably engaging each of said first and second vertically oriented guides. 12. The invention according to claim 2 wherein said locking mechanism comprises: a plug seated in a passageway within one of said side walls, said plug having a central vertical bore and an intersecting horizontal strut receiving passageway sized larger than said strut to allow for reciprocal plug movement; spring means sealed in said passageway beneath said plug, said spring means having a reduced diameter upper portion seated in said plug vertical bore to bear against said strut until such time as said plug is urged into said passageway to yieldably deform said spring to displace said upper portion of said spring away from said strut. 13. The invention according to claim 2 wherein each of said slots in said walls has a conical flare at its upper end. 14. The invention according to claim 1 wherein said tote box defines a stacking stop and said locating element extends into said stacking stop. 15. In combination with a tote box, an insert receivable within and to be freely carried by said tote box for holding printed circuit boards, said insert including: side portions at opposite sides of the tote box; cross struts extending between the ends of said side portions of said insert; at least one said side portion provided with vertically extending holding grooves in an exposed face thereof; a medial wall slidably mounted on said cross struts so as to be parallel to and facing said side portions, said medial wall provided on its surface facing said one of said side portions with vertically disposed grooves each opposite to and aligned with a corresponding one of the grooves on said one side portion; means for locking said medial wall to said cross struts; support bars extending horizontally along the facing surfaces of said one said side portions and medial wall and slidably mounted to each of said one side portion and said medial wall for vertical movement therealong; means on each of said medial wall and said side portions for raising and lowering said support bars; and a locating element mounted on said one of said side portions so as to extend outwardly of said tote box in an unsecured manner, said locating element being constructed and arranged to provide for direct engagement by an external work station apparatus. 16. The invention according to claim 15 wherein each said side portion to provided with at least a pair of lugs which each extend from said side portion to engage the tote box and define said locating element. 17. The invention according to claim 15 wherein said means for locking said medial wall to said cross strus comprises: strut receiving passages defined by said side portions; a pair of slots in the edge of the side portions adjacent to the top and bottom of said side portions so as to communicate with the strut receiving passage through said side portions, said slots bifuricating each edge of the side portion into an upper and lower pincer and a central edge portion; a shaft having a head at one end and a flattened portion at its opposite end, said shaft vertically disposed through said side portion outwardly of the passages through the side wall corners receiving said rods so that the head of said shaft bears against the lower pincer and said flattened shaft and extends through the upper pincer; a release lever having a cammed outer surface which has a recess therein for receiving the flattened end of said shaft; and a pin extending through said release lever and said flattened shaft end off center of the cammed surface so that said release lever, when actuated causes said pincers to be urged towards one another to lock the side portion to the cross struts. 18. The invention according to claim 15 wherein said means for raising and lowering said support bars comprises a pair of threaded rods, each rod disposed through an end of said side portions and said medial wall so that a portion of the threads on each rod is exposed; and a pair of nuts each carried by each said threaded rods and each engaging the end of a support bar to displace said support bar vertically along said rods when said threaded rod is rotated. 19. The invention according to claim 15 wherein said means for locking said medial wall comprises: a plug seated in a passageway within said side portions for reciprocal movement to and from the corresponding one of said cross struts passing through said wall; a pair of inwardly tapered fingers depending from said plug for engaging one of said cross struts only when said plug is urged upwardly; and spring means for resiliently urging said plug upwardly so that said inwardly tapered fingers firmly engage said cross strut. 20. The invention according to claim 15 wherein said means for locking said medial wall comprises a set screw. 