An active pneumatic mechanism and a passive hydraulic mechanism of the apparatus are so connected with each other and with a driven member that movement imparted by the pneumatic mechanism to the driven member produces, and is controllable by restriction of, hydraulic fluid flow within the hydraulic mechanism. Restriction of the fluid flow to any desired extent is accomplished by command signals directed by a control computer to a valve that preferably is of the type actuable by a torque motor. The command signals produced by the computer are based upon a correlation of data supplied by a computer program with data supplied by a monitor of the positions of the driven member along its path of travel. Precise control of the speeds, accelerations and positions of the driven member are realized.
Claims I claim: 1. In a hydropneumatic drive apparatus for imparting controlled movement to a driven member moveable between spaced positions along a path of travel; said apparatus including an active pneumatic mechanism and a passive hydraulic mechanism connected with each other and with said member such that movements imparted to said driven member by said pneumatic mechanism produce, and are retarded by restriction of, flow of hydraulic fluid within said hydraulic mechanism, the improvement comprising: said passive hydraulic mechanism including valve means responsive to command signals directed thereto for varying said flow of fluid within said hydraulic mechanism between a condition of substantially unrestricted fluid flow, a condition of substantially completely restricted fluid flow, and a substantially limitless number of partially restricted fluid-flow conditions; and signal-producing control means for directing command signals to said valve means causing the same to so vary said fluid-flow conditions as to control speeds and accelerations of said movements imparted to said driven member by said active pneumatic mechanism. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said control means includes a programmable computer, and said command signals of said control means are based at least in part upon a pre-selected program of desired movement of said driven member. 3. An apparatus as in claim 1, and further including driven-member monitoring means operatively associated with said control means for determining the position of said driven member at any location along said path of travel thereof. 4. An apparatus as in claim 3, wherein said control means includes a programmable computer, and said commond signals are based upon a correlation of actual movements of said driven member detected by said monitoring means and program-indicated desired movements of said driven member. 5. An apparatus in claim 4, wherein said valve means comprises a valve member moveable between a substantially infinite number of positions for varying said fluid flow conditions, and torque motor means for moving said valve body between said positions thereof in response to said control signals, said torque motor means including means continuously creating a magnetic field during operation of said apparatus, and an armature member mounted within said field for producing controlled movement of said valve member in response to variations in voltage of said control signals. 6. An apparatus in claim 5, wherein said hydraulic mechanism further includes accumulator means for maintaining said hydraulic fluid at above atmospheric pressure. 7. Apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said valve means includes a valve body having a cylindrical chamber therein, said flow of hydraulic fluid being across a medial portion of said chamber, a valve spool slidable longitudinally of said chamber and in differing longitudinal positions thereof establishing said conditions of substantially completely restricted and partially restricted and substantially unrestricted fluid flow, torque motor means for imparting longitudinal movement to said spool of magnitudes proportional to the voltages of said command signals, housing means connected to said valve body and enclosing said torque motor, and means for permitting pressure-induced passage of hydraulic fluid between opposite end portions of said chamber and said housing. 8. Apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said pneumatic mechanism and said hydraulic mechanism each includes a piston and cylinder assembly having a piston rod, and means connecting said assembly rods and said driven member together for simultaneous movement thereof in unison with each other. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said control signals and said valve means substantially continuously vary said fluid-flow conditions during at least some periods of acceleration of said driven member. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein during movement of said driven member at a substantially constant desired velocity, said control signals and said valve means vary said fluid-flow conditions when and as required to offset incipient changes of said desired velocity of said driven member. 