A video inspection system includes first and second video cameras mounted along parallel axes. A lighting array is pulsed, and resultant light is reflected from a specimen to both cameras. Orientation of the specimen is determined in accordance with an image generated from a first camera. This data is used to isolate a selected portion of the specimen for analysis by an image generated from the second camera.
Claims Having thus described our invention, it is now claimed: 1. A video inspection apparatus comprising: means for receiving light from an associated specimen; first and second video camera means for generating image data from light directed thereto; apportioning means for providing a first portion of the light to the first video camera means; the apportioning means including means for providing a second portion of the light to the second video camera means; data processor means for generating alignment data from image data input thereto; means for communicating first image data from the first video camera means to the data processor means; the processor means including means for isolating a selected portion of image data of the second video camera means in accordance with alignment data generated from the first image data, whereby an isolated image data portion is formed; and means for generating second image data from the selected portion of image data of the second video camera means. 2. The video inspection apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apportioning means includes a partially silvered mirror disposed in a path of the light between the associated specimen and the first and second video camera means, whereby one of the first and second portions of the light passes therethrough as a transmitted light portion, and the other of the first and second portions is reflected therefrom as a reflected light portion. 3. The video inspection system of claim 2 further comprising securing means for securing the first and second video camera means such that they are generally directed along parallel axes. 4. The video inspection system of claim 3 further comprising means for determining acceptability of the associated specimen in accordance with at least one of the first image data and the isolated image data. 5. The video inspection system of claim 4 further comprising: means for placing the associated specimen in an illumination area; and means for directing an array of lighting elements to the illumination area. 6. The video inspection system of claim 5 further comprising means for sensing each of a series of associated specimens in the illumination area. 7. The video inspection system of claim 1 wherein the processor means further includes means for generating the alignment data as representative of a central portion of the associated specimen, and wherein the means for generating second image data includes means for generating a higher resolution image of a central portion of the associated specimen in accordance with the alignment data. 8. A video inspection method comprising the steps of: receiving light reflected from an associated specimen; providing a first portion of the light to a first video camera; generating, in the first video camera, first image data from light received from the associated specimen; providing a second portion of the light to a second video camera; communicating the first image data from the first video camera to a data processor; generating alignment data in the data processor from image data input thereto; generating second image data from a selected portion of image data of the second video camera means; and isolating a selected portion of the second image data in accordance with alignment data generated from the first image data, whereby an isolated image data portion is formed. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of separating received light reflected from the associated specimen into the first and second portions, each portion including a cross-sectional representation of generally all the reflected light, such that the first portion has a generally a first selected intensity portion and the second portion has generally a second intensity portion. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of determining acceptability of the associated specimen in accordance with at least one of the first image data and the isolated image data. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of placing the associated specimen in an illumination area. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: generating the alignment data as representative of a central portion of the associated specimen; and generating second image data includes means for generating a higher resolution image of a central portion of the associated specimen in accordance with the alignment data. 13. A video inspection apparatus comprising: means for transporting a series of specimens to a inspection field; means for determining a presence of a specimen in the inspection field; energizing means for energizing elements of a lighting array in accordance with a determined presence of the specimen in the inspection field; means for capturing light of the array after reflection thereof from the specimen; means for apportioning captured light into first and second light portions; means for communicating the first light portion to a first video unit, the first video unit including means for generating first image data representative of the first light portion; means for communicating at least a portion of the first image data to a data processor, the data processor including means for generating alignment data from the first image data; means for communicating the second light portion to a second video unit, the second video camera including means for generating second image data representative of the second light portion; and means for isolating a selected portion of the second image data in accordance with the alignment data. 14. The video inspection apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: comparison means for comparing the comparison data with at least one of the first and second image data; and means for determining acceptability of a specimen in accordance with an output of the comparison means. 15. The video inspection apparatus of claim 14 further comprising means for securing the first and second video units to be generally oriented along parallel axes. 16. The video inspection apparatus of claim 15 wherein the lighting array includes a plurality of solid state light emitting elements. 17. The video inspection apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a light diffuser means disposed between the lighting array and the inspection field. 