Both a system and method for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of heat exchanger tubes in the tubesheet of a steam generator are disclosed herein. The system generally comprises a plurality of heater probes receivable within the open ends of the tubes, each of which has a bladder means for detachably securing the probe within the tube, a plurality of hose-like probe guide assemblies positionable over the open ends of the tubes for guiding the heater probes into the tubes, and an end effector having a cup-shaped coupler connected to a robotic arm for delivering the probe guide assemblies over the open ends of different tubes. The ability of each of the heater probes to detachably mount itself into proper position within its respective heat exchanger tubes advantageously frees up the robotic arm so that it can quickly and sequentially install a number of probe guide assemblies and heater probes in different locations within the tubesheet. Because the probe guide assembly installation time is a relatively small part of the entire heat-treating operation of a single tube, the system and method of the invention allows a plurality of non-adjacent tubes to be substantially simultaneously heat treated, thereby advantageously shortening the total amount of time necessary to perform the heat-treatment maintenance operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes, each of which has an open end, comprising: a plurality of heater probes receivable within the open ends of said tubes; a plurality of probe guide assemblies positionable over the open ends of said tubes for guiding a heater probe into said tube, and an end effector means connected to a robotic arm having means for delivering said probe guide assemblies over the open ends of different tubes. 2. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 1, wherein each heater probe includes means for detachably securing said probe within a tube. 3. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 2, wherein each heater probe further includes means for supporting its respective probe guide assembly after said probe has been positioned a selected distance within said tube. 4. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 1, wherein said delivery means of said end effector means includes a coupler means for coupling and uncoupling from a probe guide assembly. 5. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 4, wherein each of said probe guide assemblies includes an enlarged diameter portion near one of its ends, and said coupler means forms an interference fit with said enlarged diameter portion of each of said probe guide assemblies when coupling thereto. 6. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 4, wherein each of said probe guide assemblies includes an enlarged diameter portion near one of its ends, and said coupler means includes a recess for receiving and capturing said enlarged diameter portion. 7. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 2, wherein said means for detachably securing said probe within a tube includes an expandable bladder means. 8. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 4, wherein said coupler means is resiliently mounted to the rest of the end effector means. 9. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 1, wherein each of said probe guide assemblies includes a window for allowing a system operator to observe whether or not a probe has been completely received within the open end of a tube. 10. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 3, wherein said supporting means includes an annular collar that forms an interference fit with a bushing mounted within said probe guide assembly. 11. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes, each of which has an open end mounted in a tubesheet, comprising: a plurality of heater probes receivable within the open ends of said tubes, each of which includes means for detachably securing said probe within a tube; a plurality of probe guide assemblies, each of which includes a guide sleeve positionable over the open ends of said tubes against said tubesheet, and a guide conduit for guiding a heater probe through said guide sleeve and into a tube, and an end effector means connected to a robotic arm for delivering said guide assemblies over the open ends of different tubes, and having a coupler means for coupling to and uncoupling from a probe guide assembly. 12. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 11, wherein each of said probe guide assemblies includes an enlarged diameter portion near one of its ends, and said coupler means forms an interference fit with said enlarged diameter portion of each of said probe guide assemblies when coupling thereto. 13. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 12, wherein each of said probe guide assemblies includes an enlarged diameter portion near one of its ends, and said coupler means includes a cup-shaped recess for receiving and capturing said enlarged diameter portion. 14. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 11, wherein said means for detachably securing said probe within a tube includes an expandable bladder means. 15. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 11, wherein said coupler means is resiliently connected to the rest of the end effector means so that said coupler means is movably compliant with respect to said tubesheet when said coupler means is coupled to a probe guide sleeve and said robotic arm is used to position said guide sleeve over the open end of a tube and against said tubesheet. 16. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 15, wherein said end effector means includes means for informing a system operator when said coupler means has compliantly and resiliently moved with respect to said tubesheet. 17. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 16, wherein said informing means is a television camera. 18. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 11, wherein the guide sleeve of each of the probe guide assemblies includes a window for allowing a system operator to observe whether or not a probe has been completely inserted within a tube. 19. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 11, wherein each heater probe further includes means for supporting its respective probe guide assembly after said probe has been positioned a selected distance within said tube. 20. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes as defined in claim 19, wherein said supporting means includes an annular collar that forms an interference fit with a bushing mounted within said probe guide assembly. 21. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of heat exchanger tubes, each of which has an open end mounted in a tubesheet, comprising: a plurality of heater probes receivable within the open ends of said tubes, each of which includes a means for detachably securing said probe within a tube; a plurality of probe guide assemblies, each of which includes a guide sleeve positionable over the open ends of said tubes against said tubesheet, and a guide conduit for guiding a heater probe through said guide sleeve and into a tube, wherein the guide sleeve has an enlarged diameter portion relative to the rest of the guide sleeve, and an end effector means connected to a robotic arm for delivering said guide assemblies over the open ends of different tubes and including a coupling member having a recess capable of receiving and capturing the enlarged diameter portion of the guide sleeve, and an opening capable of conducting the non-enlarged diameter of the guide sleeve to the recess so that the coupling member forms an interference type fit with the guide sleeve when said recess of said coupling member is moved to receive said enlarged diameter portion of said guide sleeve after said non-enlarged portion has been conducted through said opening. 22. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 21, wherein said means for detachably securing said probe within a tube includes an expandable bladder means. 23. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 21, wherein each heater probe further includes means for supporting its respective probe guide assembly after said probe has been positioned a selected distance within said tube. 24. A system for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 23, wherein said supporting means includes an annular collar that forms an interference fit with a bushing mounted within said probe guide assembly. 25. A method for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic tubes, each of which has an open end, by means of a plurality of heater probes and probe guide assemblies, each of which is capable of slidably conducting one of said heater probes, comprising: (a) positioning a first probe guide assembly into alignment with the open end of one of said tubes with a robotic arm that is detachably connected thereto; (b) slidably conducting a heater probe through said aligned probe guide assembly and into said open end of said tube; (c) detachably securing said heater probe within said tube and actuating said heater probe; (d) detaching said robotic arm form said first probe guide assembly and re-attaching it to a second probe guide assembly, and (e) repeating steps (a)-(d) with said second probe guide assembly and a second heater probe such that said first and second heater probes simultaneously apply heat to different tubes. 26. A method for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic heat exchanger tubes, each of which has an open end mounted in a tubesheet, by means of a plurality of heater probes and probe guide assemblies, each of which is capable of slidably conducting one of said heater probes, comprising the steps of: positioning first and second probe guide assemblies into alignment with the open ends of first and second tubes; slidably conducting first and second heater probes through said first and second tubes via said first and second probe guide assemblies; and detachably securing said heater probes within their respective tubes, and simultaneously operating said heater probes to heat treat their respective tubes. 27. A method for a simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 26, wherein said first and second probe guide assemblies are sequentially positioned into alignment over their respective tubes by a robotic arm. 28. A method for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 27, wherein said robotic arm includes an end effector having a coupling means that implements said positioning step by coupling to and uncoupling from said probe guide assemblies. 29. A method for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 26, wherein each of said heater probes includes an inflatable bladder, and wherein each probe is detachably secured into its respective tube by inflating said bladder. 30. A method for simultaneously heat treating a plurality of metallic heat exchanger tubes as defined in claim 26, further including the step of remotely visually monitoring the alignment of said probe guide assemblies with their respective tubes. 