Method and apparatus for optically detecting an object within close proxiy to a structure surface, e.g., the nose of a torpedo or claw of a robotic arm, and generating a responsive control or command signal. A cone of light is emitted from the structure surface to illuminate any object coming within its field. Light reflected from that object to a receiver is processed to generate a responsive first electrical signal. This first signal is further processed to generate a second signal, control or a command signal, only after the first signal has decreased to around 30% of its peak level indicating that the object has closed to within a predetermined distance to the structure surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A proximity detector for detecting an object at a predetermined distance in front of a structure surface comprising: a pair of optical fibers each terminating in laterally spaced-apart first ends facing in the same optical direction and having cones of acceptance which partially overlap in front of the structure surface to define a common volume; one of the pair of optical fibers coupled with a light source at its other end to emit that light from its one end to illuminate objects coming within its cone of acceptance; the other of the pair of optical fibers adapted to receive in its first end light reflected from illuminated objects coming within the common volume of the cones of acceptance and transport that light to its other end; photodetector means receiving reflected light emitted from the optical fiber other end; said photodetector means converting that light to a first electrical signal; and means processing the first electrical signal to generate a second signal only after the first electrical signal has decreased to around 30% of its peak level; whereby the second signal defines a control signal only after an object has come in closer proximity to the structure surface than where reflected light from the common volume was at its maximum. 2. The invention according to claim 1 further defined by the structure surface being the surface of a robotic grasping claw. 3. The invention according to claim 1 further defined by the structure surface being the nose surface of a torpedo. 4. The invention according to claim 2 further defined by the optical fiber first ends terminating substantially adjacent the structure surface of the robotic grasping claw. 5. The invention according to claim 3 further defined by the optical fiber first ends terminating substantially adjacent the structure surface defining the forward nose surface of a torpedo. 6. A proximity detector for use on a torpedo for detecting the surface of an underwater object being approached by the torpedo nose, comprising: at least one pair of optical fibers having first ends terminating adjacent the nose surface and facing optically forward thereof; said optical fiber first ends spaced apart a selected lateral distance so that their cones of acceptance mutually overlap commencing a short distance in front of the nose surface to define a common volume; one of the optical fibers coupled with a light source for emitting light from its first end for illuminating the surface of an underwater object ahead of the torpedo in its cone of acceptance; the other of the optical fibers adapted to receive in its cone of acceptance light reflected from the surface of the underwater object coming within the common volume of the cones of acceptance and transport that light to its other end; means detecting the transported reflected light at the fiber end and converting it to a responsive first electrical signal; and, means processing the first electrical signal and providing a second electrical signal only after the first electrical signal has decreased to approximately 30% of its peak level; whereby the second electrical signal defines a signal for firing a warhead aboard the torpedo only after the approached object surface has become closer to the torpedo nose surface than in the common volume where maximum light reflection is received. 7. The invention according to claim 6 further defined by the first ends of the optical fiber pair terminating substantially flush with the torpedo nose surface. 8. The invention according to claim 7 further defined by a plurality of pairs of optical fibers disposed about the torpedo nose. 9. The invention according to claim 8 further defined by optical fiber pairs having their ends spaced apart different distances thereby controlling the short distance to the cones of acceptance common volume. 10. The invention according to claim 8 further defined by different optical fiber pairs having different cones of acceptance. 11. A method of detecting the presence of an object in close proximity in front of a structure surface comprising the steps of: emitting a cone of light in front of the structure surface for illuminating any object coming within its field; receiving light reflected from the illuminated object along a cone of acceptance which partially overlaps with the cone of emitted light commencing shortly in front of the structure surface to define a common volume; generating a first electrical signal responsive to the magnitude of light reflected from an object coming within the field of the common volume; wherein said first electrical signal increases to a peak level as the object approaches into the common volume and decreases as the object departs the common volume; and, processing the first electrical signal to provide a second electrical signal only after the first electrical signal has decreased to substantially below its peak level. 