Apparatus for collecting a sample of liquid, such as blood, having a plurality of phases of differing densities. Disclosed is an apparatus for collecting a sample in an enclosed chamber, wherein said apparatus can be used with a separating means which rotates the chamber about either a longitudinal axis of the chamber, or about an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the chamber and not passing through the chamber. In addition, said apparatus facilitates automated manipulation of the sample by providing formed features for: decreasing the gas permeability of said apparatus; clot activation of a blood sample contained within said apparatus; interconnection of a multiplicity of said apparatus; automated manipulation of said apparatus; protecting markings upon said apparatus; layering the construction of said apparatus; and, encoding of information upon said apparatus in both a tactile and visual manner. Also disclosed is an apparatus for dispensing fluid from said enclosed chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. Fluid collection apparatus comprising: a tubular first layer formed of a first material; a tubular second layer formed of a second material and attached to and substantially covering the first layer; and further including a protected label enclosed between the first and second layer for carrying indicia wherein the label carrying the indicia is made of a material differing from the materials of the first and second layers. 2. Fluid collection apparatus comprising: a tubular first layer formed of a first material; a tubular second layer formed of a second material and attached to and substantially covering the first layer; wherein the second layer includes a radially extending collar that includes mating means for attaching one collar directly to another collar without any other components. 3. Fluid collection apparatus comprising: a tubular first layer formed of a first material; a tubular second layer formed of a second material and attached to and substantially covering the first layer; wherein a portion of a surface of the first layer is roughened relative to the remaining portion of the surface thereby to facilitate coagulation of an entire specimen of blood contained in the fluid collection apparatus. 