A slice handling apparatus (10) is mounted on a robot arm (12) to provide automated processing of semiconductor slices (69). The slice handling apparatus (10) has three tines, a center tine (50) and two side tines (62). The side tines (62) are fixed to position, while the center tine (50) is moved in and out using a control field actuator (20). A Hall effect sensor (26) on the control field actuator (20) provides an electrical feedback to provide a firm gripping force with reduce damage to slice edges by sensitive control of the gripping force. The tines (50, 62) have locator pins (58) which hold the slice (69). The locator pins (58) have a tapered bottom portion (84) and a vertical holding portion (86). The tapered bottom portion (84) prevents the slice (69) from contacting the tines (50, 62) in the event that the slice handling apparatus (10) is not positioned at the exact vertical position desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for holding a semiconductor slice during processing, comprising: (a) a plurality of tines including a movable center tine and fixed tines on opposite sides of said center tine, each said tine having an end portion and said center tine having an upper surface and a recessed portion on said upper surface extending immediately below the slice; (b) plural holding pins, one said holding pins secured to an end portion of each of said tines, one of said holding pins being offset from a line passing through the other of said holding pins for holding said slice against movement relative to said holding pins; (c) an electrically activatable magnetic coil, and (d) a plunger within said magnetic coil coupled to said center tine, said magnetic coil being electrically activatable to move said plunger axially of said magnetic coil, and (e) means responsive to the instantaneous axial position of said plunger to control said magnetic coil and cause said plunger to stop at a predetermined location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said plurality of tines is three tines. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said three tines are substantially coplanar. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said three tines are disposed radially from the approximate location of said magnetic coil. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means responsive to the position of said plunger includes a hall effect sensor disposed to detect the axial position of said plunger, 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said holding pins includes a sloped side portion, extending outwardly from said tine and forming an obtuse angle with said tine and an adjoining substantially constant cross section portion to help seat the slice between said holding pins and spaced from said tine. 7. Apparatus for holding a semiconductor slice during processing, comprising: three, substantially coplanar, radially disposed tines for supporting the slice, where a middle tine is movable radially and said middle tine having an upper surface and a recessed portion on said upper surface extending immediately below the slice; a holding pin mounted at the distal end of each of said three tines; and control field actuator means for moving said middle tine in said radial direction and for sensing the radial position of said middle tine. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: control field actuator housing means for covering said control field actuator means. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: shaft means for connecting said middle tine with said control field actuator means. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising: shaft housing means for covering said shaft means. 11. A method of holding a semiconductor slice during processing, comprising: providing three, substantially coplanar, radially disposed tines for supporting the slice, where a middle tine is movable radially and said middle tine having an upper surface and a recessed portion on said upper surface extending immediately below the slice; providing a holding pin mounted at the distal end of each of said three tines; and providing control field actuator means for moving said middle tine in said radial direction and for sensing the radial position of said middle tine. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of: providing control field actuator housing means for covering said control field actuator means. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of: providing shaft means for connecting said middle tine with said control field actuator means. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of: providing shaft housing means for covering said shaft means. 