A connector for connecting a flexible, eccentrically dimensioned conduit to an electrical fixture comprising a connector cap and body portions. The connector cap has a threaded metal collar portion and a plastic floating sleeve with an extending wedging ring. The mating threaded metal connector body has a deflection ramp and an internally secured plastic sleeve support. The connector body is secured to an electrical fixture and the connector cap is loosely threadably engaged with the connector body. The conduit is inserted through an opening in the connector cap until it abuts the bottom of an annular cavity defined between the connector body upper wall and the sleeve support. The cap is then tightly screwed onto the body such that the wedging ring is cammed, by the deflection ramp, into engagement with the conduit to securely grip the conduit. This arrangement provides a liquid-tight seal. The collar and floating sleeve portions of the connector cap may move laterally and pivotably with respect to one another so that the connector may accommodate eccentrically dimensioned conduit and relieve stress imposed by flexing of the conduit during use. Provision is made in the connector design to minimize twisting of the conduit while engaged by the connector assembly. The wedging ring may also be provided with a depending extension ring for gripping the conduit when the connector cap and body are only joined in a finger-tight manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A connector assembly for connecting eccentrically dimensioned, liquid-tight flexible electrical conduit to an electrical fixture, comprising: (a) a metal connector body including: a first portion formed with a means for connecting said connector body to the electrical fixture; a central portion, the first and central portions having a centrally located, axially extending bore; and a second portion having a ring member formed with a first set of screw threads, the ring member having a deflection ramp formed thereon, and defining a recess inside the second portion of said connector body; (b) a plastic sleeve support, having a corner edge on the top outer end thereof and inserted inside the recess of said connector body, and forming an extension of the axially extending bore such that a first annular cavity is formed between the ring member and the sleeve support; (c) a connector cap comprising: (i) a metal collar formed with a second set of screw threads engagable with the first set of screw threads on the connector body second portion, and a flanged lip extending inwardly along the top surface of said metal collar; (ii) a plastic floating sleeve including: an upper tapered portion; a lower portion having a wedging ring having a leading edge at substantially the distal end thereof; and a recess defined along the exterior surface of said floating sleeve between the upper and lower portions, the upper and lower portions having an axially extending, centrally located bore, the wedging ring being coextensive with the bore; (iii) the recess of said floating sleeve engaging the flanged lip of the collar to form said connector cap, wherein said floating sleeve can move laterally and pivotably with respect to said collar, and the wedging ring and said collar form a second annular cavity therebetween; (d) the bore of said connector cap and the recess of said connector body being adapted to receive a conduit; the second set of screw threads being engagable with the first set of screw threads to join said connector cap to said connector body; the wedging ring being deformed inwardly by the deflection ramp as said connector cap is screwed into engagement with said connector body such that the leading edge of the wedging ring deflects the conduit wall, forming a locking engagement and liquid-tight seal with the exterior surface of the conduit thereat, forcing the conduit into the first annular cavity to form a liquid-tight seal therein, and forming a locking engagement and liquid-tight seal between the corner edge of said sleeve support and the interior surface of the deflected conduit. 2. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the distance between the leading edge of the floating sleeve of said connector cap and the corner edge of said sleeve support is less than the width of the conduit wall in its relaxed state so that when said connector body and connector cap are threadably engaged, the conduit wall is gripped between the leading edge of the floating sleeve and the corner edge of said sleeve support. 3. The connector assembly as recited in claim 2, wherein the distance between the leading edge of the floating sleeve and the corner edge of the sleeve support is two-thirds of the width of the conduit wall in its relaxed state. 4. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the face of the wedging ring of said floating sleeve defining in part the recess has a conical surface, and the underside of the flanged lip of said collar has a conical recess, whereby the conical surface and the conical recess engage such that said floating sleeve and said collar are pivotable with respect to one another. 5. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising an extension ring depending from the wedging ring such that as the second set of screwthreads engage with the first set of screwthreads to join said connector cap to said connector body, the extension ring fills the portion of the first annular cavity not filled by the conduit wall to grip the conduit. 6. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein a plurality of anti-rotation ribs are arranged on the outer surface of said sleeve support to prevent twisting of the conduit as said connector cap is screwed into engagement with said connector body. 7. The connector assembly as recited in claim 6, wherein the anti-rotation ribs are triangular in profile. 8. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of protrusions arranged on the inner surface of the ring member of said connector body inside the recess, every two protrusions having a niche therebetween; and a plurality of lugs arranged on the outer surface of said sleeve support, whereby the lugs engage with the niches to prevent said sleeve support from rotating with respect to said connector body to prevent twisting of the conduit as said connector cap is screwed into engaged with said connector body. 9. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the central portion includes a wrenching shoulder comprising a plurality of flat faces arranged about the periphery of said connector body. 10. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the central portion includes a separate sealing ring for creating a liquid-tight seal with the electrical fixture. 11. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said connector cap floating sleeve has a beveled edge at the mouth of said bore to facilitate the insertion of the conduit into the connector assembly. 12. The connector assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein the connector body is of unitary construction. 