High pressure gas cutting process useful for drilling large numbers of holes in large surface area workpieces such as air frame components and the like. The procedure utilizes a cutting tool which has an internal fluid passageway extending through the shank portion thereof and terminating in at least one discharge port adjacent a cutting edge of the tool. As the cutting tool is rotated and advanced into the workpiece in the course of the cutting operation, a high pressure gas is supplied into the cutting tool passageway under an applied pressure of at least 500 psia. The gas, which may be an inert gas such as nitrogen, is discharged from the cutting port into the tool with an expansive cooling effect. The gas then flows outwardly through the hole and exits the hole with sufficient velocity to entrain and remove the drill cuttings from the hole. A liquid lubricant can be employed to prolong the life of the cutting tool. The lubricant is present in such small portions as to avoid the buildup of an identifiable liquid phase within the hole. The cutting tool is operated at a cutting speed of at least 2,000 rpm and a penetration rate of no more than 1 mil per revolution of the tool.
Claims I claim: 1. In a method of forming a hole in a workpiece with a cutting tool having a cutting edge and a shank portion having a fluid passageway therein and at least one discharge port extending from said fluid passageway to the exterior of said cutting tool in the vicinity of said cutting edge, the method comprising the steps of: rotating said cutting tool and advancing said cutting tool into said workpiece to cut a hole therein; and supplying a circulation fluid comprised of gas having a liquid lubricant entrained therein into said passageway under an applied pressure of at least 500 psia to cause said circulation fluid to be discharged from said cutting port into said hole with an expansive cooling effect and outwardly from said hole to the entrance thereof to remove drill cuttings from said hole. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said workpiece includes titanium and said gas is an inert non-oxidizing gas. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said gas is nitrogen. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said cutting tool is rotated at a rate of at least 2,000 rpm. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1 mil per revolution of said cutting tool. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 0.5 mil per revolution of said cutting piece. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said lubricant is entrained in said gas in an amount no greater than 0.5 cc/scfm. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said lubricant is entrained in said gas in an amount of no more than 0.3 cc/scfm. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said liquid lubricant is incorporated into said gas in an amount less than that sufficient to cause a liquid phase/air suspension in the effluent from the hole in said workpiece. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said cutting tool is rotated at a speed within the range of 2,000-4,000 rpm and said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1/2 mil per revolution. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at a rate of about 1/4 mil per revolution. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said cutting tool is rotated at a speed within the range of 4,000-10,000 rpm and said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1 mil per revolution. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at a rate of about 1/2 mil per revolution. 14. In a method of forming a hole in a workpiece with a cutting tool having a cutting edge and a shank portion having a fluid passageway therein and at least one discharge port extending from said fluid passageway to the exterior of said cutting tool in the vicinity of said cutting edge, the method comprising the steps of: rotating said cutting tool at a rate of at least 2,000 rpm and advancing said cutting tool into said workpiece; supplying a gas under a pressure of at least 500 psia into the fluid passageway of said cutting tool; and discharging said gas through said port with an expansive cooling effect while flowing said gas outwardly through said hole to the entrance of said hole under sufficient velocity to entrain cuttings in said gas and remove said cuttings from said hole. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1 mil per revolution of said cutting tool. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1/2 mil per revolution of said cutting piece. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein said cutting tool is rotated at a speed within the range of 2,000-4,000 rpm and said cutting tool is advanced to said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1/2 mil per revolution. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at a rate of about 1/4 mil per revolution. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein said cutting tool is rotated at a speed within the range of 4,000-10,000 rpm and said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at an incremental penetration rate of no more than 1 mil per revolution. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said cutting tool is advanced into said workpiece at a rate of about 1/2 mil per revolution. 21. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of entraining a lubricating liquid in said high pressure gas, said liquid being in a minor amount relative to said gas flow to avoid accumulation of a separate liquid phase within said hole. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said lubricant is entrained in said gas in an amount no greater than 0.5 cc/scfm. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein lubricant is entrained in said gas in an amount of no more than 0.3 cc/scfm. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein said liquid lubricant is incorporated into said gas in an amount less than that sufficient to cause a liquid phase/air suspension in the effluent from the hole in said workpiece. 25. The method of claim 14 wherein said workpiece comprises a composite of layers of varying hardness, comprising operating said cutting tool at a designated cutting speed and incremental penetration rate in a relatively soft layer of said composite and operating said cutting tool in a relative hard layer at a reduced cutting speed relative to said designated cutting speed and a reduced incremental penetration rate relative to said designated incremental penetration rate. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said designated cutting speed is within the range of 4,000-10,000 rpm and said designated incremental penetration rate is no more than 1 mil per revolution and said reduced cutting speed in the relative hard layer is within the range of 2,000-4,000 rpm and said incremental penetration rate in said relatively hard layer is no more than 1/2 mil per revolution. 