An apparatus for stripping the scrap portion from a die cut blank includes a stripper pin carrier providing a pattern of stripper pins supported in a resilient compressible material layer in which the stripper pins are demountably embedded. The stripper pins may be inserted into the reslient layer to provide a pattern or patterns which will accommodate virtually any size, shape and location of scrap portions to be stripped from a blank. The stripper pins can be removed and reinserted in a different pattern to accommodate a different run of blanks of corrugated paperboard or the like. Programmable robotic control may be used for pin placement and removal. The stripper pin pattern, location and rotation are synchronized with operation of the upstream cutting die such that the die cut blanks move continuously under the stripper roll for automatic scrap stripping. A unique positive stripping apparatus includes a resilient soft-covered roll beneath the blank at the point of stripping and into which the leading edge of the scrap portion is pressed by the stripper pins on the upper rotary pin-carrying roll. Supplemental indexing of the stripper pin carrier is utilized to assure fresh pin placement areas in the resilient material layer to eliminate inaccuracies in pin placement or poor pin retention because of material wear through repeated use.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for stripping the cutout scrap portion from a die cut blank comprising: a stripper pin carrier having a layer of a resilient deformable material on an outer surface of said carrier, an array of stripper pins demountably inserted into said deformable material layer, means for inserting said stripper pins into and removing the same from said material layer wherein said array of pins is selectively patterned to engage desired regions of said scrap portion; and, means for indexing the stripper pin carrier with respect to the pin inserting means for providing fresh pin insertion points in the deformable material layer when changing from one pin array to another. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said pin carrier comprises a cylindrical carrier roll and said indexing means is operable to rotate said carrier roll. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said indexing means is operable to translate said carrier roll in the direction of the axis of said roll. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 including a programmable controller for controlling the operation of said pin inserting means and said indexing means. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said pin inserting means is operable to rotate said carrier roll independently of operation of said indexing means. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said pin inserting means is translatable axially along the surface of said carrier roll. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said pin carrier comprises a flat plate and said indexing means is operable to translate said plate in the plane of the plate surface. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 said plate is translatable linearly in two directions normal to one another. 9. An apparatus for stripping the scrap portion from a die cut sheet comprising: a pair of active counterrotating rolls each having a circumferential portion covered with a layer of a resilient compressible material; means for advancing the die cut sheet between said rolls; a plurality of removable stripper pins embedded in a first patterned array in the material layer of one of said rolls and extending radially outwardly therefrom and disposed in an operative position to engage and press the leading edge of the scrap portion into the material layer of the other of said rolls and displacing said edge out of the plane of said sheet; inactive stripper roll means, including at least one additional roll identical to said active pin-carrying roll, for carrying a plurality of stripper pins embedded in a second patterned array, said inactive roll means being disposed in a preparatory position during operation of said active pin-carrying roll; means for moving said active roll and said inactive roll means to and from said operative and preparatory position; means for removing said first array of stripper pins and converting said active roll to said inactive roll means in response to movement of said active roll to said preparatory position, and for inserting said stripper pins into the material layer of said inactive roll means in said second patterned array prior to movement of said inactive roll means to said operative position; and, means for indexing said inactive stripper roll means with respect to said pin removing and inserting means for providing fresh pin insertion points when changing from said first pin array to said second pin array. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein said means for removing and inserting said stripper pins comprises programmable robot means. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said inactive roll means comprises a pair of rolls identical to said active roll and said robot means comprises a pin removing robot for one of said pair of rolls and a pin inserting robot for the other of said pair. 