An automated facility for the large-scale production of superconducting magnets for use in a particle accelerator. Components of the automated facility include: a superconducting coil winding machine; a coil form and cure press apparatus; a coil collaring press; collar pack assembly apparatus; yoke half stacking apparatus; a cold mass assembly station; and a final assembly station. The facility can produce, on an economical manufacturing basis, magnets made of superconducting material for use in the ring of the particle accelerator. Each of the components is under the control of a programmable controller for operation having repeatable accuracy. All of the elements which are combined to form the superconducting magnet are thus manufactured with the dimensional precision required to produce a known, uniform magnetic field within the accelerator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assembling collar packs for a superconducting magnet, said method comprising the steps of: providing a quantity of generally C-shaped laminations, each of said C-shaped laminations being of greater thickness in the middle portion than at the ends; stacking a predetermined amount of said laminations to form a comb-shaped stack of laminations; inserting a pin through said stack of laminations; compressing said stack of laminations to a predetermined height; and machining the pin at both ends so as to prevent the pin from being removed from said stack of laminations, whereby a collar pack is assembled. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the step of providing a quantity of C-shaped laminations comprises: providing a quantity of generally arcuately-shaped lamination halves to form said C-shaped laminations; overlappingly joining one end of two of said lamination halves together to provide one of said C-shaped laminations having greater thickness in the middle portion than at the ends; and repeating said steps to provide said quantity of C-shaped laminations. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said steps are automatically performed under the direction of a computer controller. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, further including the steps of inspecting said collar packs, and discarding any of said collar packs which may be unacceptable. 5. Apparatus for assembling collar packs for a superconducting magnet, said apparatus comprising: means for providing a quantity of generally C-shaped laminations, each of said C-shaped laminations being of greater thickness in the middle portion than at the ends; means for stacking a predetermined amount of said laminations to form a comb-shaped stack of laminations; means for inserting a pin through said stack of laminations; means for compressing said stack of laminations to a predetermined height; and means for machining the pin at both ends so as to prevent the pin from being removed from said stack of laminations, whereby a collar pack is assembled. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said means for providing a quantity of generally C-shaped laminations comprises: means for providing a quantity of generally arcuately-shaped lamination halves to form said C-shaped laminations; and means for overlappingly joining one end of two of said lamination halves together to produce one of said C-shaped laminations having a greater thickness in the middle portion than at the ends. 