A method and apparatus to control a robot or manipulator configuration over the entire motion based on augmentation of the manipulator forward kinematics. A set of kinematic functions is defined in Cartesian or joint space to reflect the desirable configuration that will be achieved in addition to the specified end-effector motion. The user-defined kinematic functions and the end-effector Cartesian coordinates are combined to form a set of task-related configuration variables as generalized coordinates for the manipulator. A task-based adaptive scheme is then utilized to directly control the configuration variables so as to achieve tracking of some desired reference trajectories throughout the robot motion. This accomplishes the basic task of desired end-effector motion, while utilizing the redundancy to achieve any additional task through the desired time variation of the kinematic functions. The present invention can also be used for optimization of any kinematic objective function, or for satisfaction of a set of kinematic inequality constraints, as in an obstacle avoidance problem. In contrast to pseudoinverse-based methods, the configuration control scheme ensures cyclic motion of the manipulator, which is an essential requirement for repetitive operations. The control law is simple and computationally very fast, and does not require either the complex manipulator dynamic model or the complicated inverse kinematic transformation. The configuration control scheme can alternatively be implemented in joint space.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for controlling a redundant robot; the apparatus comprising: means for defining a set of end-effector coordinates corresponding to a basic task motion of said robot; means for defining a set of kinematic functions corresponding to an additional task motion capability available as a result of the redundancy of said robot; means for combining said set of coordinates and said set of functions to form a set of task-related configuration variables as generalized coordinates for control of said robot; and means for dynamically modifying said configuration variables in accordance with a task-based adaptive scheme for tracking at least one reference trajectory during robot motion. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said means for defining said set of kinematic functions comprises means for defining said set of functions in Cartesian space. 3. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said means for defining said kinematic functions comprises means for defining said set of functions in joint space. 4. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said additional task motion is based on kinematic equality constraints. 5. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said additional task motion is based on kinematic inequality constraints. 6. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said adaptive scheme is centralized. 7. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said adaptive scheme is decentralized. 8. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said means for dynamically modifying operates in essentially real time. 9. The apparatus recited in claim 1 wherein said end-effector coordinated-defining means is operator controlled. 10. The apparatus recited in claim 9 wherein said kinematic-function-defining means is autonomously controlled during said operator control of said end-effector coordinate-defining means. 11. A method for controlling a redundant robot; the method comprising the steps of: (a) defining a set of end-effector coordinates corresponding to a basic task motion of said robot; (b) defining a set of kinematic functions corresponding to an additional task motion capability available as a result of the redundancy of said robot; (c) combining said set of coordinates and said set of functions to form a set of task-related configuration variables as generalized coordinates for control of said robot; and (d) dynamically modifying said configuration variables in accordance with a task-based adaptive scheme for tracking at least one reference trajectory during robot motion. 12. The method recited in claim 11 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of defining said set of functions in Cartesian space. 13. The method recited in claim 11 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of defining said set of functions in joint space. 14. The method recited in claim 11 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of basing said additional task motion on kinematic equality constraints. 15. The method recited in claim 11 wherein step (b) further comprises the step of basing said additional task motion on kinematic inequality constraints. 16. The method recited in claim 11 wherein in step (d) said adaptive scheme is centralized. 17. The method recited in claim 11 wherein in step (d) said adaptive scheme is decentralized. 18. The method recited in claim 11 wherein step (d) is carried out in essentially real time. 19. The method recited in claim 11 wherein step (a) is performed under the control of an operator. 20. The method recited in claim 19 wherein step (b) is performed autonomously while step (a) is performed under said operator control. 