A system for guiding an autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle through a field of operation having obstacles thereon to be avoided employs a memory for containing data which defines an array of grid cells which correspond to respective subfields in the field of operation of the vehicle. Each grid cell in the memory contains a value which is indicative of the likelihood, or probability, that an obstacle is present in the respectively associated subfield. The values in the grid cells are incremented individually in response to each scan of the subfields, and precomputation and use of a look-up table avoids complex trigonometric functions. A further array of grid cells is fixed with respect to the vehicle form a conceptual active window which overlies the incremented grid cells. Thus, when the cells in the active window overly grid cell having values which are indicative of the presence of obstacles, the value therein is used as a multiplier of the precomputed vectorial values. The resulting plurality of vectorial values are summed vectorially in one embodiment of the invention to produce a virtual composite repulsive vector which is then summed vectorially with a target-directed vector for producing a resultant vector for guiding the vehicle. In an alternative embodiment, a plurality of vectors surrounding the vehicle are computed, each having a value corresponding to obstacle density. In such an embodiment, target location information is used to select between alternative directions of travel having low associated obstacle densities.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of operating a vehicle to avoid an obstacle in a field of operation, the method comprising the steps of: installing in a first memory first data defining a first array of first grid cells, each for holding data corresponding to a respective value, said first grid cells in said first array corresponding to respective predetermined subfields in the field of operation; scanning one of said subfields in the field of operation for determining the presence of an obstacle therein; incrementing said value in a first grid cell in said first array corresponding to said scanned one of said subfields in response to a signal responsive to said step of scanning indicating a likelihood that an obstacle is present in said scanned one of said subfields; defining a region of operation in the vicinity of the vehicle; and computing a plurality of vectorial values, each vectorial value being responsive to the location of each first grid cell in said first array within said defined region of operation, with respect to the location of the vehicle, and said values in said first grid cells. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of defining comprises the further step of installing in a second memory second data defining a second array of second grid cells, each for holding data corresponding to a respective value, said second grid cells in said second array having a fixed positional relation with respect to the vehicle. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of computing comprises the further steps of: precomputing a plurality of vectorial value components, each responsive to the location of an associated one of said second grid cells with respect to the vehicle; and storing said vectorial value components in said second memory. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of computing comprises the further steps of: overlaying said second array over said first array whereby at least partial registration is effected between second grid cells and first grid cells; multiplying a vectorial value component in one of said second grid cells by a value in a one of the first grid cells with which it is in registration, for forming a respective virtual repulsive vector value; and summing vectorially a plurality of said respective virtual repulsive vector values for forming a composite repulsive virtual vector value. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein there are provided the further steps of: storing in a third memory data corresponding to a targetdirected vector; and summing vectorially said target-directed vector and said composite repulsive virtual vector value, for producing a vehicle-steering vector value. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein there is provided the further step of applying low-pass filtering to said vehiclesteering vector value for reducing a rate of variation thereof. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said composite repulsive virtual vector value is inversely related to d.sup.x, where d is the distance between a second grid cell and the vehicle, and x is a positive real number. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said first array of said first grid cells defined by said first data is a rectangular array, and there is provided the further step of constructing a polar histogram corresponding to the vicinity of the location of the vehicle. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said polar histogram corresponds to n angular segments, each having a width r. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein each of said segments of said polar histogram has associated therewith a polar obstacle density value corresponding to a particular direction with respect to the location of the vehicle. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein there are provided the further steps of: selecting a direction corresponding to one of said n angular segments, in response to said polar obstacle density value; and directing the vehicle in said selected direction. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein said step of constructing a polar histogram comprises the further steps of: defining an active region in the vicinity of the vehicle; and computing a plurality of obstacle vector values, each obstacle vector value having a directional component responsive to the location of each first grid cell in said first array within said defined active region, with respect to the location of the vehicle. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said step of computing comprises the further step of computing a magnitude component of said obstacle vector values, said magnitude component being responsive to respective distances between the vehicle and said first grid cells and said values in said first grid cells. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein there is provided the further step of searching said obstacle vector values for a direction within a predetermined range of directions. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein there is provided the further step of selecting a direction for steering the vehicle corresponding to a one of said directions which has a value corresponding to less than a predetermined maximum obstacle vector value. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said selected direction corresponds to a direction substantially toward a predetermined target location, and step of selecting comprises the further step of steering the vehicle toward said selected direction. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein there is provided the further step of controlling a speed of the vehicle in response to an obstacle vector value. 18. A method of operating a vehicle to avoid an obstacle in a field of operation, the method comprising the steps of: installing in a first memory first data for defining an array of first grid cells, each for holding data corresponding to a respective value, said first grid cells in said first array corresponding to respective predetermined subfields in the field of operation; installing in a second memory data corresponding to a desired direction of travel of the vehicle; scanning said subfields sequentially for determining the presence of an obstacle therein; incrementing said values in said first grid cells in response to said step scanning of said subfields, said values being responsive to the likelihood of an obstacle being present in said subfields; defining an active region of operation in the vicinity of the vehicle; computing a plurality of vectorial values, each vectorial value having a direction component responsive to the location of each first grid cell in said array within said defined region of operation, with respect to the location of the vehicle in said active region of operation, and a magnitude component responsive to said likelihood of an obstacle being encountered in said direction within said region of operation; and steering the vehicle in a direction responsive to said data in said second memory and said vectorial values. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said step of installing in a second memory comprises the step of manipulating a direction-indicating device. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein prior to performing said step of steering the vehicle there are provided the further steps of: summing vectorially said vectorial values obtained in said step of computing, for forming a composite repulsive virtual vector value; and combining vectorially said composite repulsive virtual vector value with said data in said second memory for producing a resultant directional vector. 21. A method of guiding a vehicle on a field of operation having obstacles to be avoided thereon, the method comprising the steps of: dividing the field of operation into a plurality of subfields; assigning a predetermined certainty value associated with each of said subfields; scanning selected ones of said subfields for establishing the possible presence of an obstacle thereon; incrementing said certainty value associated each of said subfields for which it is established in said step of scanning that an obstacle possibly is present thereon; and computing a vector value responsive to the location of at least one of said subfields with respect to the location of the vehicle, and said certainty value associated therewith. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein there are provided the further steps of: further computing a plurality of vector values having direction components corresponding to a range of potential directions of travel of the vehicle; and selecting a direction of travel for the vehicle in response to a magnitude component of at least one of said vector values. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein there is provided the further step of storing in a location memory location data corresponding to the location of the vehicle. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein there is provided the further step of storing in a direction memory direction data corresponding to a desired direction of travel for the vehicle. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said step of storing in a direction memory comprises the further step of manipulating a direction-indicating device. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said direction-indicating device is a two-dimensional controller. 27. The method of claim 21 wherein there is provided the further step of storing in a target memory location data corresponding to a location in the field of operation of a target location to which the vehicle is to travel. 28. A vehicle for traveling in a region of operation having obstacles to be avoided, the vehicle comprising: first memory means for containing first data defining a first array of first grid cells, each for holding data corresponding to a respective value, said first grid cells in said first array corresponding to respective predetermined subfields in the region of operation; scanning means for scanning one of said subfields in the field of operation for determining the presence of an obstacle therein; processor means for incrementing a value in said first memory means associated with said scanned one of said subfields in response to a signal responsive to said scanning means indicating a likelihood that an obstacle is present in said scanned one of said subfields; and input means coupled to said processor means, said input means being responsive to an operator of the vehicle for producing data responsive to a desired direction of travel selected by the operator, subject to the presence of an obstacle in said desired direction of travel. 29. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein said input means comprises a direction-indicating apparatus for manipulation by said operator. 30. The vehicle of claim 29 wherein said operator is remote from the vehicle, and said input means is arranged off of the vehicle. 31. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein said data produced by said input means corresponds to a vector having a direction component indicative of a desired direction of travel. 32. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein said data produced by said input means corresponds to a location on the region of operation to which the vehicle is desired to travel. 