An improved metering dispenser system for delivering a fixed or variable measured quantity of a high viscosity material such as adhesives or sealants for application to a substrate is disclosed. It uses an Archimedian screw pump having a stator formed with a spiral cavity therethrough, and a spiral rotor which is driven by a variable speed drive motor. The stator has a nozzle attached to its outlet end, the inlet end thereof being in fluid communication with a reservoir for the material. The dispenser system is adapted for use in combination with a robotic system so that the nozzle is manipulated thereby. The rotational speed of the drive motor is controlled in response to a signal representative of a nozzle velocity so that the nozzle can apply a ribbon of the material with a fixed width to the substrate despite nozzle velocity variations. When the nozzle is about to come to a stop, the drive motor is rotated in a reverse direction so as to cause the nozzle to stop discharging the material instantly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. The combination of a dispensing system for dispensing a controlled quantity of a high viscosity material for application to a substrate, and a robotic system used therewith, comprising: reservoir means for holding the high viscosity material; nozzle means adapted to be manipulated by the robotic system in response to commands generated thereby; a screw pump having an inlet port communicating with said reservoir means and an outlet port connected to said nozzle means, said screw pump comprising a stator formed with a spiral cavity and a sprial rotor rotatably disposed within said cavity; a variable speed type drive motor having its drive shaft connected to the rotor of said screw pump; means responsive to said commands for determing the velocity of said nozzle means and providing a first signal representative of the velocity of the nozzle means; sensor means for sensing the rotational speed of said drive motor and providing a second signal representative of the motor speed; means responsive to said first signal for providing a third signal representative of a desired motor speed; and means responsive to said second and third signals for providing a motor drive signal supplied to said drive motor, whereby the nozzle means delivers a controlled quantity of the high viscosity material as it moves over the substrate. 2. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein the rotational speed of said drive motor is controlled to be proportional to the velocity of the nozzle so that said nozzle means delivers a fixed quantity of the high viscosity material despite variations in the velocity of the nozzle means. 3. The combination as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for rotating said drive motor in a reverse direciton when said nozzle means is about to come to a stop. 4. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cavity of said screw pump stator is generally oval in cross section, said pump rotor is generally circular in cross section, the pitch of said spiral rotor being 1/2 of that of said spiral stator cavity, said pump drive shaft being flexibly connected to said drive motor. 5. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein said reservoir means comprises a generally cylindrical body having an inlet port open to the atmosphere, through which the high viscosity material is filled into said body. 6. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein said reservoir means comprises a generally cylindrical body having an inlet port connected to a conduit leading to a storage means for holding the high viscosity material, said body, conduit and storage means forming a closed system. 7. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein the high viscosity material has a value of at least 10,000 cp. 8. The combination as set forth in claim 1 wherein the high viscosity material comprises adhesives and sealants having a value of 100,000 cp and 1,500,000 cp, respectively. 