A device for measuring the thickness of a wet or dry paint film applied on a substrate without contacting the film is disclosed. The device uses an ultrasonic sensor positioned adjacent to an inductive eddy-current proximity sensor where the ultrasonic sensor measures the distance between the device and the upper surface of the paint film and the proximity sensor measures the distance between the device and the upper surface of the substrate. The two distances measured, when compared, produce the film thickness value. The device is capable of accurately measuring thickness of various paint films, such as flat, glossy and metal-flake containing paint films.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for measuring the thickness of a film applied on a substrate without contacting the film, comprising; a) first ultrasonic sensor means for measuring a first distance value between the top surface of the film and the device; wherein the ultrasonic sensor means comprises an ultrasonic pulse generator which generates an ultrasonic pulse which is directed to the film surface and a transducer which receives the pulse after it is reflected back from the film surface; b) second electrical proximity sensor means immediately adjacent with said first means for measuring a second distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device; wherein the electrical proximity sensor means comprises an inductive eddy-current proximity sensor means; c) said first and second means disposed on the same side of the substrate; d) means operably associated with said first and second means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first and second distance values; e) auxiliary sensor means comprising inductive eddy-current sensors means spaced from said second electrical proximity sensor means for measuring a third distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device; f) said first ultrasonic sensor means, said second electrical proximity sensor means and said auxiliary sensor means all disposed on the same side of the substrate; and g) means being operably associated with said first ultrasonic sensor means, said second electrical proximity sensor means and said auxiliary sensor proximity sensor means and said auxiliary sensor means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first, second, and third distance values. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the means for calculating film thickness operably associated with the first ultrasonic sensor means, the second electrical proximity sensor means and the auxiliary sensor means comprises a computer with an interface and an analog input system. 3. The device of claim 2 in which three auxiliary sensor means are space equidistant and at equal angles from the second electrical proximity sensor means. 4. A device for measuring the thickness of a wet paint film applied to a substrate without contacting the film, comprising; a) a first ultrasonic sensor means for measuring a first distance value between the top surface of the pain and the device; wherein the ultrasonic means comprises an ultrasonic pulse generator which generates an ultrasonic pulse which is directed to the film surface and a transducer which receives the pulse after it is reflected back from the film surface; b) second electrical proximity sensor means comprising an eddy-current sensor immediately adjacent to the first ultrasonic sensor means for measuring a second distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device; c) auxiliary sensor means comprising inductive eddy-current sensors spaced from said second electrical proximity sensor means for measuring a third distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device; d) said first ultrasonic sensor means, second electrical proximity sensor means and auxiliary sensor means disposed on the same side of the substrate; and e) means operably associated with said first ultrasonic sensor means, second electrical proximity sensor means and auxiliary sensor means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first, second and third distance values; wherein the means operably associated with said first ultrasonic sensor means, second electrical proximity sensor means and the auxiliary sensor means comprises a computer with an interface and an analog input system. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein three of said auxiliary sensor means are disposed round said second electrical proximity sensor means in a circular pattern and are equilaterally spaced by an angular distance of about 120.degree.. 6. The device of claim 5 in which the substrate to which the paint film is applied is metal. 