An arrangement for controlling the location of sprayed viscous material, in which a spray head forms a stream of the viscous material, and has at least three orifices for forming air streams. The orifices are disposed at substantially equal angles around the material stream. Air pressure is applied to the orifices, and this air pressure is controlled by a valve. The valve is adjusted proportional to the position of a plate that is positioned by a control. The spray head has at least three additional orifices that form second air streams placed symmetrically about the viscous material streams. These second air streams are directed to impinge upon the viscous material after the latter is deposited on a surface. An additional valve controls air pressure applied to the additional orifices, and this additional valve is adjusted proportional to the position of the plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling the location of sprayed viscous material comprising the steps of: providing a spray head for forming a stream of viscous material; providing at least three orifices in said spray head for forming air streams; placing said air streams symmetrically about said viscous material stream; directing said air streams to impinge on said viscous material stream; supplying air pressure to said orifices; applying air pressure control to each orifice; coupling said pressure controls to a common plate; and pivoting said plate to alter said pressure at each orifice to induce said air streams to deflect said material stream to a predetermined location; providing at least three additional orifices in said spray head for forming second air streams; placing said second air streams symmetrically about said viscous material stream, directing said second air streams to impinge on said viscous material after said material is deposited on a surface; supplying a second air pressure to said additional orifices; applying an additional air pressure control to each additional orifice; coupling said additional pressure controls to said common plate; said plate pivoting altering said second pressure at each additional orifice to induce said second air streams to move said deposited viscous material to a predetermined location and shape. 2. An arrangement for controlling the location of sprayed viscous material comprising; spray head means for forming a stream of viscous material, said spray head means containing at least three orifices for forming air streams, said orifices being disposed at substantially equal angles around said material stream; means for applying air pressure to said orifices; valve means for controlling air pressure to each of said orifices; plate means; coupling means for adjusting said valve means proportional to the position of said plate means; and control means for positioning said plate means; at least three additional orifices in said spray head means for forming second air streams, said second air streams being placed symmetrically about said viscous material streams, said second air streams being directed by said additional orifices to impinge upon said viscous material after said material is deposited on a surface; means for applying a second air pressure to said additional orifices; additional valve means for controlling air pressure to each said additional orifice; and coupling means for adjusting said additional valve means proportional to the position of said plate means. 3. An arrangement as defined in claim 2, wherein each said orifice comprises at least two openings for forming air streams. 4. An arrangement as defined in claim 2, wherein each additional orifice comprises at least two openings for forming air streams. 5. A method for controlling the location of sprayed viscous material comprising the steps of: providing a spray head for forming a stream of viscous material; providing at least three orifices in said spray head for forming air streams; placing said air streams symmetrically about said viscous material stream; directing said air streams to impinge on said viscous material stream; supplying air pressure to said orifices; applying air pressure control to each orifice; coupling said pressure controls to a common plate; and pivoting said plate to alter said pressure proportionally at each orifice to induce said air streams to deflect said material stream in a smooth unbroken bead to a predetermined location. 6. An arrangement for controlling the location of sprayed viscous material comprising; spray head means for forming a stream of viscous material, said spray head means containing at least three orifices for forming air streams, said orifices being disposed at substantially equal angles around said material stream; means for applying air pressure to said orifices; valve means for controlling air pressure to each of said orifices; plate means; coupling means for adjusting said valve means proportional to the position of said plate means; and control means for positioning said plate means to alter said air pressure proportionally to each orifice to induce said air streams to deflect said material stream in a smooth unbroken bead to a predetermined location. 7. An arrangement as defined in claim 6, wherein each orifice comprises at least two openings for forming air streams. 8. A method for controlling the location and shaping of sprayed viscous material comprising the steps of: providing a pivotable spray head with a spray axis and a symmetrical spray about said axis; directed said symmetrical spray without shifting the origin of said spray axis; conducting viscous material to said spray head through a flexible coupling; pivoting said spray head in at least one direction by applying a controlled force; and controlling said force to direct a spray of said viscous material in a predetermined direction to form a smooth unbroken bead on a surface by maintaining precise calibration of said spray of viscous material through said compensating step. 9. An arrangement for controlling the location and shaping of sprayed viscous material, comprising; spray head means with orifices for providing bead shaping via impinging air streams; mount means; pivoting means enabling said spray head to pivot in at least one direction relative to said mount means; flexible coupling means to convey viscous material from said mount means to said spray head; said spray head having a spray axis and a symmetrical spray of said air streams about said axis for directing said symmetrical spray without shifting the origin of said spray axis to maintain precise calibration of said spray of viscous material; actuating means; and control means to direct said actuating means to pivot said spray head in a predetermined direction to form a smooth unbroken bead on a surface. 