A breakaway mount connects a tool such as a welding torch with a robot or other automated machine. The mount can fully separate and detach from a baseplate in the event of a collision between the tool and the workpiece. The pneumatically operated mount is reassembled with the baseplate in a two-step procedure which allows the operator to move his fingers and hands away from the apparatus to avoid injury when the components are fully assembled. The breakaway mount can include a wrist joint which swivels back and forth in response to a collision between the tool and the workpiece. The apparatus can also be affixed with sensors to detect partial or complete detachment between the mount and the baseplate. The sensors shut down the robot or other automatic machinery in the event of partial or complete detachment. A second series of sensors can also be added to detect the movement in the wrist joint to likewise shut down the machinery. In an alternative embodiment, the mount is manually operated with a threaded screw to attach the mount to the baseplate. The present invention protects the tool, the robot or automatic machinery, and the workpiece from damage due to high speed collisions. The unique configuration of this mount also protects the operator when it is necessary to reconnect the mount to the baseplate after a substantial collision.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A breakaway mount for attaching a tool to a robot, the tool being used to perform manufacturing operations on a workpiece comprising: a. A base plate connected to said robot and having a mounting pin protruding from said plate, said pin having at least one notch therein; b. An elongate arm including a tool clamp on one end and a housing assembly on the other end; c. Means for releasably engaging said mounting pin to attach said housing assembly to said base plate during normal operation of said robot, and means for activating said engaging means to automatically release said mounting pin when said tool clamp experiences an unexpected collision with said workpiece to allow said housing assembly to disengage from said base plate to minimize possible damage to said tool, said robot and said workpiece, said means for releasably engaging said mounting pin comprising: (i) an elongate cylinder formed in said housing assembly having a first and second end; (ii) a piston slidably mounted in said cylinder and in sealing engagement with said cylinder, said piston having an extended and a retracted position; (iii) an elongated flexible sleeve sized to receive said pin and engage said notch in said pin, said sleeve being mounted on said piston and travelling with said piston as it moves from said extended to said retracted position in said cylinder; and (d) Means for properly aligning said housing assembly relative to said base plate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further including means for sensing partial and complete detachment of said housing assembly from said base plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said means for sensing partial and complete disengagement of said housing assembly includes a switch mounted in said housing assembly and having a probe which contacts said base plate, said probe being depressed when said housing assembly and said base plate are properly attached, said probe sensing partial and complete disengagement of said base plate from said housing assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further including: a. a wrist joint positioned in said elongate arm between said clamp and said housing assembly; and b. means for sensing movement in said wrist joint. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said wrist joint further includes: a. a first disk having a front and rear face, said front face having a plurality of channels and protrusions therein, said first disk having a central bore therein; b. a second disk having a front face and a rear face, said front face having a plurality of channels and protrusions therein sized to mate and engage with said channels and protrusions in said first disk, said second disk having a central bore therein; c. a binder post passing through said central bore of said first and second disk to align said first and second disk; d. a first spring means mounted on said binder post and engaging said rear face of said first disk; e. a second spring means mounted on said binder post engaging said rear face of said second disk, said first spring means and said second spring means urging said front face of said first disk and said front face of said second disk into engagement during normal operation of said mount, said first and second spring means having sufficient elasticity to allow disengagement of said first and second disk to allow said wrist joint to rotate in response to excessive loading; and f. a removeable locking screw threadably engaging said binder post to trap said first spring means and said second spring means on said binder post. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said means for sensing movement in said wrist joint includes: a. a switch positioned on said arm having a probe which contacts said first disk attached to said clamp, said probe sensing any movement of said first disk relative to said second disk. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 further including means to protect said wrist joint from foreign contamination. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said protection means incudes: a. an elongate hollow elastomeric bellows having a first end and a second end; b. said first end of said bellows sized to engage and seal with said clamp to protect said wrist joint from foreign matter; c. said second end of said bellows sized to engage and seal said arm to protect said wrist joint from foreign matter; and d. said bellows being formed of flexible material to allow said wrist joint to freely rotate. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for releasably engaging said pin to attach said housing assembly to said baseplate further includes: a. a pressurized source of air; b. a port in said housing in communication with said first end of said cylinder for the passage of said air; c. a second port in said housing in communication with said second end of said cylinder for the passage of said air; and d. valve means to switch said pressurized source of air from said first port to said second port to drive said piston and said sleeve to its extended position for engagement of said sleeve and said pin and to switch said pressurized source of air from said second port to said first port to drive said piston and said sleeve to its retracted position to attach said housing assembly to said base. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for releasably engaging said pin to attach said housing assembly to said base plate further includes: a. a threaded shaft engaging said housing, one end of said shaft connected to said cylinder and the other end of said shaft protruding from said housing; b. a removable handle for engaging said second end of said shaft, rotation of said handle causing said shaft to rotate and causing said piston to move back and forth from the extended to the retracted position. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for properly aligning said housing assembly relative to said base plate includes: a. a plurality of aligning pins protruding from said housing assembly; b. a plurality of alignment bushings in said base plate, said bushings sized and configured to receive said aligning pins to align said housing relative to said base plate. 