Microprocessor controlled isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system for robotic drying of wafer cassettes containing wafers or substrates. A wetted wafer or substrate is robotically placed into a virgin isopropyl alcohol vapor zone. The wetted surface and free-moving contaminants are replaced by a layer of isopropyl alcohol (IPA) which condenses on the surface. The dryer then robotically moves the IPA coated wafer or substrate into an upper cooling zone causing the isopropyl alcohol layer to flash off of the substrate surface, leaving the surface completely dry to a molecular level. IPA vapors are heated at the bottom of a quartz tank and maintained as a vapor by electric heating panels surrounding the quartz tank. A stainless steel cooling jacket surrounds the upper outer region of the quartz tank and between the quartz tank, and a stainless steel containment tank along with a cooling coil delineates a cooling zone about the upper region of the quartz tank where the IPA is flash-cooled from the surface of the substrate.
Claims We claim: 1. Isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system comprising: a. a stainless steel housing; b. a heater means in a base of said housing; c. a quartz tank mounted in said housing on said heater means; d. at least one independent side wall heater means positioned on a side wall of said quartz tank; e. a quartz saucer in a base of said quartz tank; and, f. a cooling coil adjacent an upper portion of said quartz tank. 2. System of claim 1 wherein said side wall heater means includes four side wall heaters, one on each of said side walls of said tank means. 3. System of claim 1 wherein said heater means in a base of said housing includes a plurality of heater rods. 4. System of claim 1 including robotic compatible access doors. 5. In combination, a quartz tank for IPA vapor dryer and a heating means for a vapor dryer for processing semiconductor wafers or substrates comprising: a. a quartz tank; b. a base heating means for generating an IPA vapor; and, c. at least one independent heater means on a side wall of said quartz tank for maintaining said IPA vapor. 6. Process of generating an isopropyl alcohol uniform temperature vapor blanket in a quartz tank comprising the steps of: a. heating a bottom of a quartz tank containing a finite amount of isopropyl alcohol for generating an IPA vapor; and, b. independently heating sides of said quartz tank by direct contact with a heating panel for maintaining said IPA vapor at a uniform vapor temperature. 7. Process of claim 6 for wafers of 4"-8". 8. An isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system comprising: a. a housing; b. a quartz tank mounted in the housing for containing isopropyl alcohol, the tank having multiple side walls; c. a wall heater means mounted against each of side walls for heating the quartz tank and the isopropyl alcohol; and, d. a separate block heater mounted on a bottom of said quartz tank. 9. The dryer system of claim 8 further comprising: a. wherein the tank is substantially rectangular and has four side walls; and, b. said wall heater means includes a heater panel on each of said side walls. 10. An isopropyl alcohol vapor dryer system comprising: a. a housing; b. a quartz tank mounted in the housing having side walls; c. a base heater mounted in the housing below the tank for heating isopropyl alcohol in the tank; d. a cooling coil mounted in the housing adjacent an upper portion of the tank; and, e. an independent wall heater means for heating the side walls and for preventing vapor from condensing on the side walls. 11. The dryer system of claim 10 wherein the wall heater means includes a heat panel mounted on each side wall. 12. The dryer system of claim 10 further comprising a cooling jacket mounted adjacent the tank walls for cooling an upper portion of the tank. 13. A vapor dryer system comprising: a. a housing; b. a quartz tank, having multiple side walls, mounted in the housing; c. a base heater means mounted in the housing below the tank for vaporizing liquid in the tank; d. independent side wall heater means, mounted against the side walls, for maintaining vapor in a non-condensed state within the quartz tank; e. a cooling jacket means mounted adjacent an upper portion of the tank for cooling the upper portion and preventing heat-generated air currents; and, f. a cooling coil means mounted above the tank adjacent said cooling jacket means for cooling and condensing vapor. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising an air flow damper mounted in the housing between the tank and the housing for preventing turbulent air flow in the housing. 