Methods and apparatus for fusion of data from optical and radar sensors by error minimization procedure. The method has been applied to the problem of shape reconstruction of an unknown surface at a distance. The method involves deriving an incomplete surface model from an optical sensor. The unknown characteristics of the surface are represented by some parameter. The correct value of the parameter is computed by iteratively generating theoretical predictions of the Radar cross-sections (RCS) of the surface, comparing the predicted and the observed values for the RCS, and improving the surface model from results of the comparison. Theoretical RCS may be computed from the surface model in several ways. One RCS prediction technique is the method of moments. The method of moments can be applied to an unknown surface only if some shape information is available from an independent source. The optical image provides the independent information.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for determining the shape of a remote surface by sensor fusion using incomplete data from a plurality of sensors, comprising the steps of (a) obtaining from a first sensor a first electronic signal representative of the surface, (b) constructing a first electronic model of the surface using the first electronic signal, (c) using first electronic model as a guide, constructing for a second sensor a predicted electronic signal also representative of the surface, (d) obtaining from the second sensor an actual electronic signal representative of the surface, (e) minimizing the difference between the predicted electronic signal and the actual electronic signal, (f) constructing an additional electronic model of the surface using the result of step (e) as a guide, (g) using the additional electronic model of the surface in constructing an additional predicted electronic signal for the second sensor, (h) obtaining from the second sensor an additional actual electronic signal representative of the surface, (i) minimizing the difference between the additional predicted electronic signal and the additional actual electronic signal, (j) repeating steps (f) through (i) until the difference between the final predicted electronic signal and the actual electronic signal is below a predetermined threshold level whereby, the shape of the remote surface, represented by the final predicted electronic signal, is determined more accurately than can be done with either the first or second sensor alone, and (k) displaying the shape of the remote surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first sensor is an optical device and the second sensor is a radar device. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the optical device is a camera and the radar device is a microwave radar. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein a model is constructed using image shaping techniques, the theoretical cross-sections are generated using moment-methods techniques, and the difference between the theoretical and actual cross-sections are minimized by use of the "lmdif()" program from the MINPACK group of programs published by Argonne National Laboratories. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the moment-method technique is the Numerical Electromagnetic Code published by Ohio State University. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the image shaping technique is a shape-from-shading technique. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the image shaping technique is a photometric stereo technique. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the image shaping technique is a stereopsis technique. 9. The method of characterizing the incompletely observable surface shape of a physical object comprising the steps of (a) obtaining an initial optical image of the object, (b) extracting from the initial optical image of the object occluding contours by thresholding the initial optical image, (c) deriving from the initial optical image a partial shape description for the object by shape-from-shading techniques, (d) computing a set of predicted values for RCS from digital representation of initial optical image using method of moments, (e) obtaining a set of polarized radar scattering cross-sections from the object, (f) minimizing the difference between the set of polarized radar scattering cross-sections and the set of predicted values for RCS, by linear least squares technique, to achieve a refined surface description, (g) repeating steps (d) through (f), using each successively refined surface description in lieu of the initial surface description, until the difference obtained in step (f) is below a predetermined threshold level whereby, the shape of the physical object surface, represented by the refined surface description, is determined more accurately than either the optical image or radar scattering cross sections alone. 10. A method of constructing a representation of the surface of a physical object by sensor fusion of an incomplete optical image of the surface and radar scattering cross-sections of the object comprising the steps of (a) obtaining an optical image of the object (b) obtaining an approximate shape of the object from the optical image, (c) enhancing the edges of the optical image of the object, (d) thresholding the edge-enhanced optical image, (e) extracting the visible portions of the edges of the object from the thresholded optical image, (f) generating a surface shape model of the object from the visible portions of the object, (g) generating theoretical radar cross-sections of the object from the model of the object, (h) obtaining actual radar cross-sections of the object, (i) minimizing the difference between the theoretical cross-sections and the observed cross-sections, by refining the surface shape model of the object whereby, the shape of the physical object surface, represented by the surface shape model, is determined more accurately than either the optical image or radar scattering cross sections alone. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the approximate shape of the object is obtained by stereopsis techniques, the model of the object is obtained by use of a Geometrical Theory of Diffraction scattering technique, and minimizing the difference between theoretical and actual cross-sections is by use of the "lmdif()" program from the MINPACK group of programs published by Argonne National Laboratories. 12. Apparatus for determining the shape of a space object by fusing the optical and microwave signals from the object comprising (a) optical sensing means for producing an electrical signal representative of the object, (b) low-level image processing means for enhancing the electrical signal, (c) high-level image processing means for extracting shape information from the electrical signal and for producing a first, incomplete surface model representative of the shape of the object, (d) initializing means for receiving the surface model and for filling in incomplete portions of the surface model, (e) microwave receiving means for receiving microwave signals from the object, (f) microwave processing means for producing observed radar scattering cross sections of the object from the microwave signals, (g) computing means for producing theoretical approximations of the radar scattering cross sections of the object using the surface model produced by the initializing means, and for generating a refined surface model by comparing the observed radar scattering cross sections with the theoretical radar scattering cross sections and modifying the surface model to minimize the difference between the theoretical radar scattering cross sections and the observed radar scattering cross sections whereby, the refined surface model thus produced is a more accurate representation of the shape of the space object than either the optical signal or the microwave signal, and (h) display means for displaying the shape of the object. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein a final, complete surface model is produced by successively and iteratively refining the surface model, producing theoretical radar scattering cross sections based on the refined surface model, comparing the theoretical radar scattering cross sections with the observed radar scattering cross sections, and modifying the surface model to minimize the difference between the theoretical and observed radar scattering cross sections. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the optical sensing means comprises a plurality of optical devices and the low-level processing means comprises stereo imaging techniques and wherein the low-level processing means further comprises analog to digital conversion of the signal and filtering means for deblurring, histogram equalization, and edge enhancement. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the initialization means for filling in the incomplete surface model employs computation by B-splines surface functions. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the theoretical radar scattering cross sections are produced by the Numerical Electromagnetic Code are available from Ohio State University and wherein the refined surface model is produced by use of the MINPACK program lmdif() published by Argonne National Laboratory. 17. Apparatus for characterizing the shape of a space object by fusing optical and microwave data from the object, comprising optical image sensor means for producing video signals representative of the object, low level image processor means for performing enhancement of the video signal, said enhancement comprising collecting the video signals, converting them to digital form, and for performing image filtering operations on the digital signals, high level image processor means for extracting shape information from the enhanced video signal to produce an incomplete first surface shape model of the object, radar means for measuring actual radar scattering cross sections of the object, computing means for generating theoretically predicted radar scattering cross sections of the object from the first surface shape model, for minimizing the difference between the theoretically predicted radar scattering cross sections and the actual radar scattering cross sections of the object, for refining the surface model as a result of the minimum difference, and for generating a final surface shape model by successive iterations of minimizing the difference and refining the surface model whereby, the final surface model more accurately characterizes and represents the shape of the space object than either the optical video signals or the radar scattering cross sections, and output means for outputting the shape characterization. 18. Apparatus of claim 18 wherein the theoretically predicted radar scattering cross sections of the object are generated by use of the Numerical Electromagnetic Code available from Ohio State University. 19. Apparatus of claim 17 wherein minimizing the difference between the theoretically predicted radar scattering cross sections and the actual radar scattering cross sections of the object is accomplished by use of the MINPACK program lmdif() published by the Argonne National Laboratory. 20. A method for converting electronic signals representative of the incomplete shape of a remote object to electronic signals representative of a more complete shape of (a) obtaining from a first sensor a first electronic signal representative of the shape of the object, (b) constructing a first electronic model of the shape using the first electronic signal, (c) using first electronic model as a guide, constructing for a second sensor a predicted electronic signal also representative of the shape, (d) obtaining from the second sensor an actual electronic signal representative of the shape, (e) minimizing the difference between the predicted electronic signal and the actual electronic signal, (f) constructing an additional electronic model of the shape using the result of step (e) as a guide, (g) using the additional electronic model of the shape in constructing an additional predicted electronic signal for the second sensor, (h) obtaining from the second sensor an additional actual electronic signal representative of the shape, (i) minimizing the difference between the additional predicted electronic signal and the additional actual electronic signal, (j) repeating steps (f) through (i) until the difference between the final predicted electronic signal and the actual electronic signal is below a predetermined threshold level whereby, the shape of the remote object, represented by the final predicted electronic signal, is determined more accurately than can be done with either the first or second sensor alone, and (k) displaying the shape of the remote surface. 