A robotic arm comprises a plurality of sequentially pivotally attached links. The proximal end portion of the proximalmost of the links is pivotally mounted to a relatively static structure. An end effector structure has two substantially oppositely extending hands each capable of picking up a workpiece. The end effector structure is centrally pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of the distalmost link. The links, end effector structure and static structure are such as to allow the robotic arm to reverse across the pivot axis of the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of the links. A radial drive serves for driving the links in a manner such that the pivot axis of the central portion of the end effector structure moves only substantially linearly radially along a straight line passing through and perpendicular to the pivot axis of the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of the links and to the pivot axis of the central portion of the end effector structure. The effector structure is maintained at a selected angle to the line. A rotational drive rotates the relatively static structure and with it the links about the pivot axis of the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of the links.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm, comprising: a plurality of sequential pivotally attached links each having proximal and distal end portions, with the proximal; end portion of each link except a proximalmost of said links being pivotally attached relative top the distal end portion of the proceeding link, each of said links being pivotable about a respective axis parallel to that of each other of said links; a relatively static structure to which the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links is pivotally mounted about an axis parallel to the pivot axes of said links; an end effector structure having a central portion and two substantially oppositely extending hands each capable of picking up a workpiece, said central portion being centrally pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of a distalmost of said links for pivoting about an axis parallel to the pivot axes of said links; said links, end effector structure and static structure being of a construction sufficient to allow said links and said end effector structure to reverse across and pass through the pivot axis of said proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links; radial drive means for driving said links in a manner such that the pivot axis of said central portion of said end effector structure moves only substantially linearly radially along a line passing through and perpendicular to said pivot axis of said proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links and to the pivot axis of said central portion of said end effector structure and said end effector structure is maintained at a selected angle to said line; and rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure and with it said links about the pivot axis of said proximal end portion of said proximalmost of said links. 2. A robotic arm as set forth in claim 1, wherein said selected angle is zero degrees. 3. A robotic arm as set forth in claim 2, wherein said radial drive means comprises a plurality of pulleys and belts. 4. A workpiece processing apparatus, comprising: a workpiece holder adapted to hold a plurality of workpieces to be processed; a work station adapted to hold and process successively held workpieces; a workpiece receiver adapted to receive successively processed workpieces; a robotic arm, comprising: a plurality of sequentially pivotally attached links each having proximal and distal end portions, with the proximal end portion of each link except a proximalmost of said links being pivotally attached relative to the distal end portion of the preceding link; a relatively static structure to which the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links is pivotally mounted; an end effector structure having a central portion and two substantially oppositely extending hands each capable of picking up a workpiece, said central portion being centrally pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of a distalmost of said links; said links, end effector structure and static structure being of a construction sufficient to allow said robotic arm to reverse across the pivot axis of said proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links; radial drive means for driving said links in a manner such that the pivot axis of said central portion of said end effector structure moves only substantially linearly radially along a line passing through and perpendicular to said pivot axis of said proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links and to the pivot axis of said central portion of said end effector structure and said end effector structure is maintained at a selected angle to said line; and rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure and with it said links about the pivot axis of said proximal end portion of said proximalmost of said links; said robotic arm being positioned and of a construction sufficient to remove successive workpieces from said holder using either of said hands, position said workpieces successively at said work station using either of said hands, remove said workpieces successively from said work station using either of said hands and position said workpieces successively in said receiver using either of said hands. 5. An apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said workpieces comprise semiconductor wafers. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 4, wherein said selected angle is zero degrees. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein said radial drive means comprises a plurality of pulleys and belts. 8. A method of processing workpieces, comprising: (A) picking up an unprocessed workpiece holder in one of two hands of a robotic arm comprising: a plurality of sequentially pivotally attached links each having proximal and distal end portions, with the proximal end portion of each link except a proximalmost of said links being pivotally attached relative to the distal end portion of the preceding link; a relatively static structure to which the proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links is pivotally mounted; an end effector structure having a central portion and two substantially oppositely extending hands each capable of picking up a workpiece, said central portion being centrally pivotally mounted to the distal end portion of a distalmost of said links; said links, end effector structure and static structure being of a construction sufficient to allow said robotic arm to reverse across the pivot axis of said proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links; radial drive means for driving said links in a manner such that the pivot axis of said central portion of said end effector structure moves only substantially linearly radially along a line passing through and perpendicular to said pivot axis of said proximal end portion of the proximalmost of said links and to the pivot axis of said central portion of said end effector structure and said end effector structure is maintained at a selected angle to said line; and rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure and with it said links about the pivot axis of said proximal end portion of said proximalmost of said links; (B) depositing said unprocessed workpiece at a work station; (C) processing said workpiece at said work station to provide a processed workpiece; (D) during said processing: picking up another unprocessed workpiece from the workpiece holder in one of said hands; and positioning the empty one of said hands adjacent said work station in alignment to remove said processed workpiece therefrom; (E) following said processing: removing said processed workpiece from said work station; reversing said robotic arm to position the unprocessed workpiece in alignment for deposit at said work station; depositing said unprocessed workpiece at said work station; and delivering said processed workpiece to a workpiece receiver; and (F) repeating steps (D) and (E) until a desired number of workpieces have been processed. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8, wherein said workpieces comprise semiconductor wafers. 10. A method as set forth in claim 8, wherein said selected angle is zero degrees. 11. A method as set forth in claim 10, wherein said radial drive means comprises a plurality of pulleys and belts. 