A multiple-task end effector attachable to the articulatable head of a computer controlled robotic machining center or "robot" operable to impart multiple linear and rotational axis movements to the end effector which comprises a tool head attachable to the mobile head of the robot for carrying a plurality of working tools held by a power actuated shuttle. The shuttle is selectively operable to position or index each tool carried thereby to a position of coaxial alignment with the central axis of the robot's mobile head and the end effector's tool head. In operation two robots are positioned on opposite sides of fixture held work pieces so that end effectors attached thereto are coaxially aligned and operable to clamp work pieces therebetween with measured, balanced forces. The shuttle of at least one end effector is selectively actuated to present tools for forming and preparing holes through the work pieces followed by insertion and installation of suitable fasteners, such as rivets, bolts or the like without unclamping the work pieces.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A multi-task end effector attachable to the articulatably moveable twist head of a computer controlled robot capable of imparting multiple linear and rotational axis movements to the end effector, comprising: generally cylindrical interface means for detachably connecting the end effector coaxially over the outer end of the robot's twist head; said interface means also coupling power actuated means of the end effector to power supply systems of the robot; a generally cylindrical tool head having an elongated hollow body connected coaxially to the outer end of said interface means, a generally cylindrical nose piece mounted coaxially over the outer end of said body for limited pivotal movement relative thereto; and sensor means responsive to pivotal movements of said nose piece for indicating non-coaxial alignment of said nose piece and body. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said tool head body has a concave semi-spherical outer end surface, and said nose piece has a semi-spherical inner end surface. 3. The end effector of claim 2, and plural spring loaded linkage means extending between and interconnecting said nose piece and tool head body so that the semi-spherical end surfaces thereof are matingly engaged, and whereby said nose piece is afforded limited pivotal movement about its inner end. 4. The end effector of claim 3, wherein a said sensor means is coupled to each of said linkage means at arcuately spaced locations about the outer end of said tool head. 5. The end effector of claim 1, and shuttle means moveably mounted on said nose piece for supporting a plurality of selected tools thereon. 6. The end effector of claim 5, wherein said shuttle means comprises an elongated member mounted on said nose piece for bi-directional linear movement transversely across the central axis of said nose piece, said tools being mounted at tool stations spaced along the length of said elongated member. 7. The end effector of claim 6, and power actuated means operable selectively to move said member to index each of the tools thereon into coaxial alignment with said central axis of said nose piece. 8. The end effector of claim 6, wherein said shuttle means comprises power actuated sealant applicator means operable to apply sealant to a fastener hole formed in work pieces supported adjacent the outer end of said nose piece. 9. The end effector of claim 8, wherein said sealant applicator means, comprises a pivotally mounted body portion, sealant dispersing means extending from one end of said body portion comprising a rotatably driven nozzle means for distributing sealant, means for supplying sealant to said nozzle means, power actuated means for rotating said nozzle means, and additional power actuated means for pivotally moving said body member between predetermined limits. 10. The end effector of claim 6, wherein said shuttle means supports fastener supply means for inserting selected fasteners into fastener openings formed in work pieces positioned adjacent the outer end of said nose piece; means mounting said fastener supply means for movement about an axis remote from the central axis of said nose piece, and power actuated means for effecting limited movement of said fastener supply means between fastener receiving and discharge positions. 11. The end effector of claim 10, characterized by said fastener supply means comprising an elongated body portion, and said means mounting said fastener supply means comprises a pivot shaft fixed transversely through said body portion and rotatably supported on said shuttle means, and motor means connected to said pivot shaft for rotating the same whereby to pivotally actuate said body portion between said fastener receiving and discharge positions. 12. The end effector of claim 6, wherein said shuttle means carries fastener supply means for feeding selected fasteners into fastener openings formed in work parts confronted by said nose piece comprising; a moveably supported body portion having a fastener receptive chamber adjacent one end, means operable to feed fasteners into said chamber when said body portion is in a first position, means for moving said body portion between said first position and a second position when said chamber is indexed by said shuttle means into coaxial alignment with the central axis of said nose piece, selectively operable means for holding said fastener in said chamber during movement of said body portion to said second position and for releasing the fastener for discharge from said chamber, and means for positively discharging said fastener from said chamber. 13. The combination of claim 12, wherein said means for discharging said fastener from said chamber comprises a stream of pressurized air released into said chamber to force said fastener therefrom. 14. The end effector of claim 7, wherein said shuttle means comprises moveably mounted bushing means at one of said stations which is adapted to reciprocate along an axis coincident with the central axis of said nose piece when indexed by said shuttle into alignment therewith, bucking bar means mounted coaxially within said tool head, power actuated means for axially advancing and retracting said bucking bar means into and out of engagement with said bushing, and a stem portion on said bushing for engaging the head of a fastener coaxially aligned therewith and located in a fastener opening formed in work parts opposingly engaged by the outer end of said nose piece. 