A control system for a multi-motor system such as a space telerobot having a remote computational node and a local computational node inter-connected with one another by a high speed data link is described. A Universal Computer Control System (UCCS) for the telerobot motors is located at each node. Each node is provided with a multibus computer system which is characterized by a plurality of processors with all processors being connected to a common bus leading to a command processor. The command processor controls joint hardware and/or software for a plurality of direct current torque motors of the type used in telerobot joints and telerobot hand-held controllers. The motors are connected to the joint processor cards and respond to digital control signals from the joint command processor and a joint motor control card. Essential motor operating parameters are sensed by analog sensing circuits and the sensed analog signals are converted to digital signals which are stored at the controller card for processing by the command processor. The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96-517 (35 USC 202) in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.
Claims I claim: 1. A universal computer control system for controlling and sensing the operating parameters of a plurality of motors that are software-controllable, said system having a command processor with a read/write memory address signal cycle, which command processor is dedicated to controlling said plurality of motors in accordance with a software program system itself, and said system comprising: at least one controller card and a plurality of software-controllable motors which are connected to said controller card; a signal user-accessible command processor connected to said controller card by a first digital bus; a user-accessible code generator located in said command processor and responsive to user-initated inputs in order to control and/or sense the plurality of motors by said single command processor in accordance with digital signals sent to or from said controller card by said signal command processor; digital storage means at said controller card accessible by read/write signals from said single command processor over said first digital bus, for storing at an address associated with each of said motors, user-initated software command written by said code generator, which software commands individually control or sense the operational status of any one of the plurality of motors connected to said controller card; sensor circuits at each of said motors for delivering to said controller card, digital signals stored at the motor's address at said controller card, which signals are indicative of the operating status of each of said motors to be controlled by said card; and address means at said controller card accessible by said command processor over said first digital bus during the command processor's read/write memory cycle for transferring digital signals, indicative of said user-desired control and/or each individual motor's operational status, from said digital storage means at said controller card to said command processor. 2. A control system in accordance with claim 1 and further comprising: additional controller cards and additional pluralities of software-controllable motors to be controlled/sensed, which motors are connected to said additional controller cards, and said additional controller cards being connected to said single command processor over said digital bus and being addressable during said command processor's read/write cycle so that all the motors connected to all of the controller cards are available to the user for control or parameter sensing by said software written by said code generator as implemented by said single command processor over said first digital bus. 3. A control system in accordance with claim 2 and further comprising: a second digital bus connected to said command processor; an additional command processor having its own read/write memory address signal cycle; and means connecting said additional command processor to said second digital bus whereby digital control or operational status signal so said plurality of motors connected to all of said controller cards can be shared by both command processors via signals transmitted over said second digital bus. 4. A control system in accordance with claim 1 and further comprising: means sensing the operation of each one of said addressed motors for feeding back to each of said motor's address at said controller card a plurality of parameter signals indicative of the actual performance of each one of the addressed motors as being controlled. 5. A control system in accordance with claim 4 and 5 further wherein: said operating parameters of each of said addressed motors are represented by analog signals. 6. A control system in accordance with claim 5 and further comprising: an analog to digital converter for converting said analog signals indicative of the motor parameters to digital signals of a format suitable for storage at said digital storage means of said controller card; and means for feeding back to said controller card said digital signals from said A/D converter. 7. A control system in accordance with claim 1 wherein each motor is provided with an encoder for delivering pulses indicative of the rotation of said motor's shaft to said controller card, and said system further comprises: counting means for emitting a count signal; digital tachometer means responsive to the pulses derived from each motor's encoder for converting said system's count signal into a separate digital signal indicative of the rotational shaft speed of each of said motors being controlled by said system; and means for storing said shaft-speed-indicating signal in said digital storage means at said controller card where it can be read by said command processor. 8. A control system in accordance with claim 7 and further comprising at said controller card: means for measuring the time between said encoder pulses from each of said motors; and means for relating said measured time to a digital signal indicative of the motor shaft's angular rotational velocity for each of said motors connected to said controller card. 9. A control system in accordance with claim 1 wherein each of said motors is provided with a motor supply signal, and said system further comprises: a plurality of signal amplifiers, with one each of said plurality of amplifiers individually connected between one motor each of said plurality of motors and said one controller card; and means t each of said connected amplifiers responsive to said addressed command from said command processor as stored in said digital storage means at said controller card for individually controlling the motor's supply signal and direction of rotation in accordance with a signal supplied by said individual amplifiers to said individual motors. 10. A control system in accordance with claim 9 wherein each of said amplifiers is a variable amplifier and further characterized in that: each of said variable amplifiers is a pulse-width modulated (PWM) amplifier which emits motor supply current to the motor in accordance with the width of a control pulse applied to a control terminal of said amplifier; and wherein said system further comprises: a PWM amplifier control circuit individual for each of said amplifiers, and said amplifier control circuit being responsive to digital command signals from said control processor for controlling the width of the control pulses supplied by said amplifier control circuit to said control terminal of said PWM amplifier. 11. A universal computer-control system in accordance with claim 7 wherein said digital tachometer comprises: digital logic means responsive to said motor's encoder pulses for sensing the direction of rotation of said motor shaft; and means at said controller card associated with said motor for setting a binary state in one of two states in accordance with the sensed direction of rotation of said motor's shaft. 12. A control system in accordance with claim 11 wherein said digital tachometer means further comprises: means for measuring the elapsed time between two consecutive pulses from said motor's encoder and emitting a digital signal indicative thereof; memory means in said tachometer for storing said digital signal emitted from said elapsed-time measuring means; and means connecting said tachometer memory means to said digital storage means in said controller card where said elapsed time may be read by said command processor. 13. A control system in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said command processor is accessible by a user-initialed signals in order to initiate said self-written software by said code generator; and terminal means connected to said command processor for delivering digital signals stored in said storage means of said controller card to said user. 14. A control system in accordance with claim 7 wherein said tachometer means is: an all-digital tachometer comprising digital logic means for registering if the motor's shaft has not moved for a predetermined time. 15. A control system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said PWM amplifier control circuit in said controller card further comprises: a digital command signal register for storing a digital command indicative of the amount of power to be supplied to a motor being controlled by the PWM amplifier control circuit; and means responsive to said digital command in said register for controlling the width of the control width of the control pulses supplied by said control terminal of said PWM amplifier. 16. A control system in accordance with claim 15 wherein said PWM amplifier control ciciuit further comprises: register means for receiving from said command processor a digital signal indicative of the desired direction of rotation for said motor; and means responsive to said direction command as stored in said register means be said command processor for controlling the direction of current supplied by said PWM amplifier to the motor being controlled. 17. A universal computer control system having a control processor with a memory storage device that is software accessible by a user, said control processor being dedicated to control/sense a plurality of software-controllable motors, and said system further comprising: a code generator in said memory storage device of said control processor with a predetermined code therein for electronically writing a control program to control said plurality of motors in accordance with the motor configuration that are supplied to said code generator by said user; a plurality of software-controllable motors connected under common control of a single dedicated control processor; means available to said user and connected to said code generator for supplying to said control processor the hardware configuration and operating parameters for each one of said plurality of motors to be controlled by said system; and means responsive to said electronic software program as written by said code generator and taking into account said hardware configuration and said operating parameters as input into said processor by said user, for emitting a plurality of command signals to control the operation of each one of said plurality of motors by said dedicated control processor. 18. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 17 and further comprising: means sensing the operation of each one of said motors being controlled for feeding back to said control processor a plurality of parameter signals indicative of the actual performance of each one of the motors as they are being controlled. 19. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 18 and further wherein: said operating parameters of each of said addressed motors are represented by analog signals. 20. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 19 and further comprising: an analog to digital converter for converting said analog signals indicative of the motor parameters to digital signals of a format suitable for said dedicated control processor; and means for feeding back said digital signals from said converter to said dedicated control processor. 21. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 17 and further comprising: a digital bus interconnecting said control processor with said digital control signal emitting means for transmitting the digital command signals to the motors being controlled. 22. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 17 wherein each motor is provided with an encoder for delivering pulses indicative of the direction of rotation of said motor's shaft, and said system further comprises: counting means for emitting a count signal; and tachometer means responsive to the pulses derived from each motor's encoder for converting said system's count signal into a separate digital signal indicative of the rotational shaft speed of each of said motors being controlled by said system. 23. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 22 and further comprising: means for measuring the time between said encoder pulses from each of said motors; and means for relating said measured time to the motor shaft's angular rotational velocity for each of said motors. 24. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 17 wherein each motor of said plurality is provided with a motor supply signal and further comprising: a plurality of signal amplifiers, with one each of said plurality of amplifiers individually connected to one motor each of said plurality of motors; and means at each of said amplifiers responsive to said processor for individually controlling the motor supply signal supplied by said amplifiers to said individual motors. 25. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 24 and further wherein: each of said amplifiers is a variable amplifier. 26. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 25 wherein: each of said variable amplifiers is a pulse-width modulated (PWM) amplifier which emits motor supply current to the motor in accordance with the width of a control pulse applied to a control terminal of said amplifier; and wherein said system further comprises: a PWM amplifier control circuit individual for each of said command signals from said control processor for controlling the width of the control pulses supplied by said control circuit to said control terminal of said PWM amplifier; and a digital bus interconnecting said PWM amplifier control circuit with said control processor. 27. A universal computer-control system in accordance with claim 22 wherein said tachometer means comprises: an all digital tachometer including digital logic means responding to said motor's encoder pulses for sensing the direction of rotation of said motor shaft; and digital logic means at said tachometer for storing a digital signal indicative of the direction of rotation of said motor's shaft. 28. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 27 wherein said tachometer means further comprises: calculating means for calculating the lapsed time between two consecutive pulses from said motor's encoder and emitting a digital signal indicative thereof; and memory means in said tachometer for storing said digital signal emitted from said calculating means. 29. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 28 and further comprising: a digital data bus connected to said memory means and said processor; and means responsive to a processor command for reading from said memory means said digital time signal. 30. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 17 wherein: `said dedicated control processor is accessible by a user-initated software; and means in said system for delivering said digital time signal to said user. 31. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 23 wherein said tachometer means comprises: an all-digital tachometer comprising digital logic means for registering if the motor's shaft has not moved for a predetermined time. 32. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 26 wherein said PWM amplifier control circuit further comprises: a digital command signal register for storing a digital command indicative of the amount of power to be supplied to a motor being controlled by the PWM amplifier control circuit; and means responsive to said digital command in said register for controlling the width of the control width of the control pulses supplied by said control terminal of said PWM amplifier. 33. A universal computer control system in accordance with claim 31 wherein said PWM amplifier control circuit further comprises: register means for receiving from said command processor a digital signal indicative of the desired direction of rotation for said motor; and means responsive to said direction command in said register means for controlling the direction of current supplied by said PWM amplifier to the motor being controlled. 