A robotic tool is provided for temporarily positioning shearclips against structural members. The device incorporates a movable jaw linkage which provides sufficient clamping force for withdrawing a shearclip from an adhesively retained position in a storage tray. After a shearclip is removed from the storage tray, the movable jaw is displaced to a non-clamping position and vacuum retention of the shearclip is relied upon. The present robotic device achieves two time-saving objectives in the assembly of aircraft. It permits rapid preparation of shearclips as well as rapid mechanical-handling deployment of a prepared shearclip for utilization with a structural member.
Claims I claim: 1. A bracket-handling device for mounting on a robotic arm for handling angle brackets which have separate legs disposed at right angles relative to each other, the device comprising: a body; a solid pad mounted to the body and having surfaces disposed at right angles relative to each other which contact the respective legs of said angle bracket; vacuum passage means formed in the body and passing through the pad for exerting vacuum pressure on a first surface of one leg of the bracket to maintain contact between the pad and the bracket; a single unilateral jaw movably mounted in opposed relationship to the body for contacting a second surface of said one leg which is opposite said first surface and clamping the bracket against the pad during a portion of a bracket-handling interval; linkage means pivotally connected to the jaw; gear means for moving the linkage means; and actuator means for powering movement of the gear means. 2. The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein the gear means comprises: a rack gear connected to the actuator means; a pinion gear keyed to a shaft which is positioned transversely of the rack gear, the pinion and rack gears meshing for translating motion from the rack gear to the shaft via the pinion gear; and the linkage means being keyed to the shaft for linked movement therewith. 3. The structure set forth in claim 2 wherein the linkage means comprises: a first pair of parallel links keyed at first ends thereof to the shaft, opposite ends of the links being pivotally connected to the jaw whereby the jaw is driven by shaft rotation; a second pair of parallel links pivotally connected at first ends thereof to the body while opposite ends are pivotally connected to the jaw whereby the second pair of parallel links supportively follows jaw movement. 4. The structure set forth in claim 3 together with means for pivotally mounting the body to a robotic arm; and second actuator means connected between the body and the robotic arm for changing the spatial orientation of the brackets. 5. A bracket-handling device for mounting on a robotic arm for handling angle brackets which have separate legs disposed at right angles relative to each other, the device comprising: a body; a solid pad mounted to the body and having surfaces disposed at right angles relative to each other which contact the respective legs of said angle bracket; vacuum passage means formed in the body and passing through the pad for exerting vacuum pressure on a first surface of one leg of the bracket to maintain contact between the pad and the bracket; a single unilateral jaw movably mounted in opposed relationship to the body for contacting a second surface of said one leg which is opposite said first surface and clamping the bracket against the pad during a portion of a bracket-handling interval; a rack gear movable in response to an actuator means; a pinion gear keyed to a shaft which is positioned transversely of the rack gear, the pinion and rack gears meshing for translating motion from the rack gear to the shaft via the pinion gear; a first pair of parallel links keyed at first ends thereof to the shaft, opposite ends of the links being pivotally connected to the jaw whereby the second pair of parallel links supportively follows jaw movement. 6. The structure set forth in claim 5 together with means for pivotally mounting the body to a robotic arm; and second actuator means connected between the body and the robotic arm for changing the spatial orientation of the clamped brackets. 