Stable compliance control at a high speed is achieved by cooperation between a manipulator and a wrist body which is located at the end of the manipulator arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for compliance control of a robot having a manipulator and a wrist body having a hand which is located at the end of the manipulator, is movable relative to the manipulator, and generates an adjustable force at the hand, comprising the steps of: (a) determining at least the values of the position and the velocity of the hand; (b) determining the force to be generated at the hand responsive to the detected values of the position and velocity of the hand; (c) causing the wrist body to generate the force determined in step (b), and (d) if the position of the hand is varied by step (C), then controlling the position of the manipulator so that the range of motion of the wrist body is compensated for responsive to the varied position by step (c). 2. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said step (d) comprises determining the hand displacement, determining the reference position of the manipulator responsive to the hand displacement, and controlling the manipulator position to coincide with the desired position. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2, wherein said determining the reference position of the manipulator comprises subjecting the hand displacement to a filter function. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3, wherein said filter function is where K.sub.p is a proportion gain; K.sub.i is an integration gain and S, is a Laplace operator. 5. A method as set forth in claim 3, wherein said filter function is where K.sub.p is a proportion gain; K.sub.i is an integration gain and S, is a Laplace operator. 6. A method as set forth in claim 2, wherein said step (a) determines the hand position by adding the hand displacement determined by said step (d) and the resultant manipulator position by said controlled position, and detects the hand velocity by differentiating the detected hand position with respect to time. 7. A system for compliance control comprising: (a) a manipulator; (b) a wrist body, having an actuator and a hand, disposed at an end of said manipulator; (c) means for determining at least the position and the velocity of said hand; (d) means for determining a force to be generated at said hand responsive to the position and velocity from said means for determining and said actuator causing said hand to generate said force; (e) means for determining the hand displacement resulting from said actuator causing said hand to generate said force; and (f) means for controlling the position of the end of said manipulator by determining the reference position of said manipulator responsive to said hand displacement determined by said means for determining the hand displacement. 