A sensor tip (10) for use in a robotic hand has a three-dimensional compliant elastomeric body (12) with an outer boundary (22) having a circular base (24) and a convex surface (26) extending therefrom. Four strain transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20) produce electrical signals indicative of the strain at various positions near the boundary of the elastomeric body (12) resulting from forces exerted upon the sensor tip (10) by an object which the robotic hand is manipulating. The transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20) are positioned about the convex surface (26) so as to produce signals that may be decoupled to determine the normal and tangential forces and the applied torque. A signal amplifier (34) and computer (36) may be incorporated for the decoupling of the signals produced by the transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20) into the four components. The sensor tip can be produced at relatively low cost, requiring only low precision manufacturing processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor tip for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip providing feedback information to the robot on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the sensor tip comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being formed of a relatively compliant material as compared to the object to be manipulated; and (b) means for measuring strain in the elastomeric body at at least two positions near the outer boundary of the body to yield information on a plurality of independent force or torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated. 2. The sensor tip of claim 1 wherein the outer boundary of the body has a base and a convex surface extending from the base, the convex surface having a distal point of maximal distance from the base. 3. The sensor tip of claim 2 wherein the means for measuring strain measures strain at at least three separated positions on the body to yield information on two independent tangential force components and an independent normal force component acting on the body. 4. The sensor tip of claim 3 wherein the means for measuring strain measures strain at four separated positions on the sensor body to yield information on a torque component acting on the body. 5. A sensor tip for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip providing feedback information to the robot on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the sensor tip comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being relatively complaint as compared to the object to be manipulated, wherein the material of the elastomeric body is silicone rubber; and (b) means for measuring strain in the elastomeric body at at least two positions near the outer boundary of the body to yield information on a plurality of independent force or torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated. 6. The sensor tip of claim 5 wherein the silicone rubber is room temperature volcanized. 7. A sensor tip for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip providing feedback information to the robot on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the sensor tip comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being a relatively complaint as compared to the object to be manipulated, wherein the outer boundary of the body has a base and a convex surface extending from the base, the convex surface having a distal point of maximal distance from the base; and (b) means for measuring strain in the elastomeric body at at least one position near the outer boundary of the body to yield information on force or torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated wherein the means for measuring strain comprises transducers which produce an electrical signal indicative of strain. 8. The sensor tip of claim 7 wherein the transducers are strips of piezoelectric polymer film. 9. A sensor tip for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulated an object, the sensor tip providing feedback information to the robot on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the sensor tip comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being formed of a relatively complaint material as compared to the object to be manipulated; and (b) means for measuring in the elastomeric body at a plurality of positions separated near the outer boundary of the body to yield information on a plurality of independent force of torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated. 10. The sensor tip of claim 9 wherein the outer boundary of the body has a base and a convex surface extending from the base, the convex surface having a distal point of maximal distance from the base. 11. The sensor tip of claim 10 wherein the base is circular and the ratio of the distance between the base and the distal point to the diameter of the base is between 0.5 and 1.0. 12. The sensor tip of claim 11 wherein the ratio of the maximal distance between the base and the distal point to the diameter of the base is 0.8. 13. The sensor tip of claim 10 wherein the outer boundary is a portion of an ellipsoid having a major axis and a minor axis, the portion of the ellipsoid being not greater than a section taken halfway along the major axis. 14. The sensor tip of claim 13 wherein the ratio of the length of the major axis to the minor axis is between 1.0 and 2.0. 15. The sensor tip of claim 14 wherein the ratio of the length of the major axis to the minor axis is about 1.6. 16. The sensor tip of claim 10 wherein the means for measuring strain are four transducers which produce an electrical signal indicative of strain, and wherin at least one of the transducers is electrically anisotropism is helical about the convex surface. 17. A sensor tip of claim 10 wherein the means for measuring strain conprises: at least three transducers attached to the body at separated positions to measure strain in the body near the outer boundary of the body, each of the transducers producing an electrical signal indicative of strain on the body resulting from manipulation of the object to yield information on independent force and/or torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated. 18. The sensor tip of claim 17 wherein the transducers are strips of piezoelectric polymer film. 19. The sensor tip of claim 18 wheein the piezoelectric polymer film is composed of a material having a relatively low modulus of elasticity. 20. The sensor tip of claim 18 wherein the piezoelectric polymer film is polyuvinylidene fluoride. 21. The sensor tip of claim 17 wherein at least three transducers are each anisotropic with respect to its output signal as a function of the direction of strain in the transducer, and each is positioned so that the orientation of anisotropism is on a line directed radially outwardly on the convex surface from the distal point. 22. The sensor tip of claim 21 wherein at least one additional transducer is anisotropic with respect to its output signal as a function of the direction of strain in the transducer, and is positioned so that the orientation of anisotropism is helical about the convex surface. 23. The sensor tip of claim 9 wherein the material of the elastomeric body is silicone rubber. 24. The sensor tip of claim 23 wherein the silicone rubber is room temperature vulcanized. 25. The sensor tip of claim 9 wherein the material of the elastomeric body has a Shore Hardness rating in the range 45-55. 26. The sensor tip of claim 9 wherein the means for measuring strain are transducers which produce an electrical signal indicative of strain. 27. The sensor tip of claim 26 wherein the transducers are strips of piezoelectric polymer film. 28. The sensor tip of claim 27 wherein the piezoelectric polymer film is composed of a material having a relatively low modulus of elasticity. 29. The sensor tip of claim 27 wherein the piezoelectric polymer film is polyvinylidene fluoride. 30. The sensor tip of claim 26 wherein the outer boundary of the body has a base and a convex surface having a distal point of maximal distance from the base, and wherein three transducers are each anisotropic with respect to its output signal as a function of the direction of the strain in the transducer, and each is positioned so that the orientation of anisotropism is on a line directed radially outwardly on the convex surface from the distal point. 31. The sensor tip of claim 26 wherein the transducers are positioned near the base. 32. The sensor tip of claim 31 wherein the centers of the transducers are positioned at an angle of 70.degree. from a line normal to the base. 33. A sensor tip system for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip system providing feedback information to the robot on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the system comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being formed of a relatively complaint material as compared to the object to be manipulated; (b) at least three transducers attached to the body at separated positions near the outer boundary of the body, each of the transducers producing an electrical signal indicative of strain on the body resulting from manipulation of the object to yield information on a plurality of independent force or torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated; and (c) means for decoupling the electrical signals produced by the transducers to resolve independent components of force or torque acting upon the body. 34. The sensor tip system of claim 33 further comprising an amplifier to amplify the electrical signals produced by the transducers and supplying the amplified signals to the means for decoupling. 35. The sensor tip system of claim 34 wherein the amplifier is adjacent to the body. 36. A robotic hand capable of manipulating an object, the robotic hand comprising: three fingers each having sensor tips, each of the sensor tips being able to direct multiple force components and each of the sensor tips being positionable by the robot so as to contact the object at three separate points, wherein each of the sensor tips comprises: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being formed of a relatively complaint material as compared to the object to be manipulated; and (b) means for measuring strain in the elastomeric body at at least three separated positions near the outer boundary of the body to yield information on a plurality of independent force or torque components acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated. 37. The robotic hand of claim 36 wherein the means for measuring strain in each sensor tips comprises: at least three strain transducers attached to the body near the outer boundary of the body, each of the transducers producing an electrical signal indicative of strain on the body resulting from manipulation of the object to yield information on component forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated. 38. The robotic hand of claim 37 including a fourth strain transducer attached to the body of each sensor tip and positioned to measure torque applied to the body. 39. The robotic hand of claim 38 further including: means for decoupling the electrical signals produced by the transducers in the sensor tip to resolve the components of force and torque acting upon the body of each sensor tip. 