An electrode cap mounting station includes a linearly reciprocal drive member. Two electrode cap engaging members, each having opposed facing knife edges, are arranged in inverted relationship with respect to each other and pivotally connected at one end to a body surrounding the linear drive member. Each electrode cap engaging member includes at least one cam. Cam follower members mounted on the linear drive member engage the cams during reciprocal movement of the drive member to pivot the electrode cap engaging members from an open, spaced apart position to a closed position in which the opposed knife edges engage the joint between an electrode cap and a welding electrode on which the cap is mounted to forcibly separate the electrode cap from the welding electrode. In an electrode cap mounting station, a similar linear drive member pivots first and second electrode cap mounting members. The electrode cap mounting apparatus is substantially identical to the electrode cap removing apparatus. At least one chute carries a plurality of new electrode caps. Movement of the welding electrode into the mounting station urges the discharge end of the chute into alignment with one of the first and second electrode cap mounting members. Pivotal movement of the first and second electrode cap mounting members to the second position forcibly urges a new electrode cap from the discharge end of the chute onto a welding electrode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for replacing welding electrode caps mounted on welding electrodes comprising: first linear drive means having a first reciprocally extendable and retractable drive member; a first body, the body having a through bore through which the first linear drive means reciprocates; first and second electrode cap engaging means, the first and second electrode cap engaging means disposed in opposed, inverted positions with respect to each other and pivotally connected at first ends to the first body; first and second cam means formed in the first and second electrode cap engaging means, respectively, the first and second cam means being identical and disposed in opposed, inverted relation with respect to each other; cam follower means, mounted on the first drive member and engaging the first and second cam means in the first and second electrode cap engaging means, for pivoting the first and second electrode cap engaging means between a first, spaced apart, open position and a second, closed position as the first drive member reciprocates; and opposed knife edges formed on the first and second electrode cap engaging means, respectively, for engaging opposite sides of the joint between the electrode cap and the welding electrode to forcibly separate the electrode cap from the welding electrode as the first and second electrode cap engaging means pivot to the second position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: each of the first and second workpiece engaging means includes first and second spaced arms, each of the first and second spaced arms having a first end; the first ends of each of the first and second spaced arms being pivotally connected to the first body; and the first and second cam means including first and second identical, spaced cams formed in each of the first and second arms of each of the first and second electrode cap engaging means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of the cam means comprises: a cam track having a central linear portion; and first and second end portions angularly disposed with respect to the central linear portion and inverted from each other. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the cam follower means comprises: a first pin mounted on the first linear drive member, the first pin having first and second ends extending outward from opposite sides of the first linear drive member; and first cam follower means comprising first cam follower members mounted on each of the first and second ends of the first pin for engaging the first and second cam means formed in the first and second electrode cap engaging means. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first linear drive means comprises: a fluid operated cylinder; and the first linear drive member comprises a cylinder rod extensibly and retractably mounted in the cylinder and extending outward from the cylinder. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising electrode cap mounting apparatus, the electrode cap mounting apparatus comprising: second linear drive means having a reciprocally extendible and retractable second drive member; third and fourth electrode cap engaging means, each having first and second ends, the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means disposed in opposed, inverted positions with respect to each other and pivotally connected at the first ends to the second linear drive means; a second body, the body having a through bore through which the second linear drive means reciprocally extends; first and second cam means formed in the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means, respectively, the first and second cam means in the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means being disposed in opposed, inverted relationship with respect to each other; second cam follower means, mounted on the second drive member and engaging the first and second cam means, for pivoting the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means between a first, spaced apart, open position and a second position wherein the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means is adapted to engaging and forcibly mount an electrode cap on a welding electrode; and pusher means mounted on each of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means, for pushing a new electrode cap engaging means onto the welding electrode as the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means pivot to the second position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein: each of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means includes first and second spaced arms, each of the first and second spaced arms having a first end; the first ends of each of the first and second spaced arms being pivotally connected to the second body; and the first and second cam means comprising: first and second identical, spaced cams formed in each of the first and second arms of each of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein each of the first and second cam means comprises: a cam track having a central linear portion; and first and second end portions angularly disposed with respect to the central linear portion and inverted from each other. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the second cam follower means comprises: a second pin mounted on the second linear drive member, the second pin having first and second ends extending outward from opposite sides of the second linear drive member; and second cam follower means comprising cam follower members mounted on each of the first and second ends of the second pin for engaging the first and second cam means formed in the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the second linear drive means comprises: a second fluid operated cylinder; and the second linear drive member comprises a cylinder rod extensibly and retractably mounted in the second cylinder and extending outward from the second cylinder. 11. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising: chute means for storing a plurality of serially arranged electrode caps, the chute means having a cap discharge end with opposed, open side walls; and the discharge end being selectively alignable with one of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means in the electrode cap mounting apparatus for mounting an electrode cap positioned in the discharge end of the chute means onto a welding electrode. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the chute means comprises: a hollow, elongated member with closed top, bottom and opposed side walls; and means for pivotally mounting the elongated member to the body such that the discharge end of the elongated member is movable between a first position spaced from one of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means and a second position aligned with one of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the pivotally mounting means comprises: means for biasing the discharge end of the chute means to the first position; and wherein the welding electrode urges the discharge end of the chute means to the second position as the welding electrode moves into an electrode cap mounting position. 14. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising: a mounting plate; the electrode cap removing apparatus and the electrode cap mounting apparatus being mounted on the mounting plate. 15. An apparatus for mounting a new welding electrode cap on a welding electrode comprising: linear drive means having a reciprocally extendible and retractable drive member; first and second electrode cap engaging means, each having first and second ends, the first and second electrode cap engaging means disposed in opposed, inverted positions with respect to each other and pivotally connected at the first ends to the linear drive means; a body, the body having a through bore through which the drive member reciprocally extends; first and second cam means formed in the first and second electrode cap engaging means, respectively, the first and second cam means being disposed in opposed, inverted relationship with respect to each other; cam follower means, mounted on the drive member and engaging the first and second cam means, for pivoting the first and second electrode cap engaging means between a first, spaced apart, open position and a second position wherein the first and second electrode cap engaging means are adapted to engage and forcibly mount an electrode cap on a welding electrode; and pusher means, mounted on each of the first and second electrode cap engaging means, for pushing a new electrode cap engaging means onto the welding electrode as the first and second electrode cap engaging means pivot to the second position. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein: each of the first and second electrode cap engaging means includes first and second spaced arms, each of the first and second spaced arms having a first end; the first ends of each of the first and second spaced arms being pivotally connected to the body; and the first and second cam means comprising: first and second identical, spaced cams formed in each of the first and second arms of each of the first and second electrode cap engaging means. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein each of the first and second cam means comprises: a cam track having a central linear portion; and first and second end portions angularly disposed with respect to the central linear portion and inverted from each other. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the cam follower means comprises: a pin mounted on the drive member, the pin having first and second ends extending outward from opposite sides of the drive member; and cam follower members mounted on each of the first and second ends of the pin for engaging the first and second cam means formed in the first and second electrode cap engaging means. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the linear drive means comprises: a fluid operated cylinder; and the drive member comprises a cylinder rod extensibly and retractably mounted in the cylinder and extending outward from the cylinder. 20. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: chute means for storing a plurality of serially arranged electrode caps, the chute means having a cap discharge end with opposed, open side walls; and the discharge end being selectively alignable with one of the third and fourth electrode cap engaging means in the electrode cap mounting apparatus for mounting an electrode cap positioned in the discharge end of the chute means onto a welding electrode. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the chute means comprises: a hollow, elongated member with closed top, bottom and chute means comprises: a hollow, elongated member with closed top, bottom and opposed side walls; and means for pivotally mounting the elongated member to the body such that the discharge end of the elongated member is movable between a first position spaced from one of the first and second electrode cap engaging means and a second position aligned with one of the first and second electrode cap engaging means. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the pivotally mounting means comprises: means for biasing the discharge end of the chute means to the first position; and wherein the welding electrode urges the discharge end of the chute means to the second position as the welding electrode moves into an electrode cap mounting position. 