An optical sensor which can be used in conjunction with an automatic stripping apparatus. A plurality of sensing elements are placed in a predetermined geometrical relationship with respect to a plurality of nozzles which deliver paint stripping material. Each of the sensing elements comprises a lens system which optimizes inspection of the desired field of view while minimizing the effects of light from outside the desired field of view. The sensing elements produce optical signals which are converted into electrical signals by a plurality of optical detectors. The signal output of the plurality of detectors is analyzed using a programmable digital computer which is used to control a robotic positioning system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical sensor system for detecting the quantity of a substantially opaque protective coating, such as paint, deposited on the surface of a substrate, comprising: means for illuminating said surface of said substrate with a quantity of light; a plurality of optical sensing elements for detecting a portion of said light reflected by said substrate and for producing a plurality of optical signals in response thereto; means for detecting said plurality of said optical signals and for producing a plurality of electrical data signals in response thereto; and data processing means for processing said data signals and for producing an indication of the quantity of said opaque protective coating deposited on said substrate. 2. The optical sensor system according to claim 1, said means for illuminating said substrate comprising a light source for producing infrared rich light. 3. The optical sensor system according to claim 2, said detector means comprising a plurality of optical detector elements each said detector element comprising first and second photosensitive detectors. 4. The optical system according to claim 3, said first and second optical detectors comprising said first and second photodiodes, said first photodiode being responsive to light in a spectral band centered at 900 nanometers, said second photodiode being responsive to light in a spectral band centered at 1700 nanometers. 5. The optical sensor system according to claim 4, each of said detector elements comprising first and second optical filters for filtering light detected by said first and second photodiodes. 6. The optical sensor system according to claim 5, said first optical filter being an 800 nanometer highpass filter, said second optical filter being a 1600 nanometer highpass filter. 7. The optical sensor system according to claim 6, each said detector element comprising a beam splitter for directing a first portion of said optical signal to said first photodiode, and for directing a second portion of said optical signal to said second photodiode. 8. The optical sensor system according to claim 7, wherein said plurality of optical sensing elements are contained within a stripping head assembly, said stripping head assembly being provided with a plurality of nozzles for directing stripping material toward said substrate. 9. The optical sensor system according to claim 8, wherein some of said plurality of optical sensing elements are interposed between said nozzles for delivering said stripping material to said substrate, with said optical sensing elements having a field of view corresponding approximately to the stripping area of each of said nozzles for delivering said stripping material. 