An end effecter is disclosed which translates in a cartesian coordinate system including a first axis and a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. The end effecter includes apparatus for receiving a laser beam from an articulated optical delivery system and for transmitting it along the first and the second axes and translating apparatus for translating the apparatus for receiving and for transmitting along the first and the second axes. Also disclosed is a method for cutting utilizing the end effecter.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effecter suitchable for attachment to a robot as the final mechanical positioner therefor for translating in a cartesian coordinate system comprising a first axis and a second axis perpendicular to said first axis comprising: means for receiving a laser beam from an articulated optical delivery system and for transmitting it along said first and said second axes; and translating means for translating said means for receiving and for transmitting along said first and said second axes without rotation about said first and second axes. 2. An end effector according to claim 1 wherein said means for receiving and transmitting include two mirrors. 3. An end effector according to claim 1 wherein said means for receiving and transmitting include three mirrors. 4. An end effector according to claim 1 and also including follower means for receiving said laser beam along said second axis for transmitting it along a third axis. 5. An end effector according to claim 4 wherein said follower means includes a lens. 6. A laser robot comprising: an articulated optical delivery system for delivering a laser beam; an end effector for translating in a cartesian coordinate system comprising a first axis and a second axis perpendicular to said first axis comprising: means for receiving said laser beam from said articulated optical delivery system and for transmitting it along said first and said second axes; and translating means for translating said means for receiving and for transmitting along said first and said second axes without rotation about said first and second axes. 7. A laser system according to claim 6 and also including follower means for receiving said laser beam along said second axis and for transmitting it along a third axis. 8. A laser system according to claim 6 wherein said articulated optical delivery system comprises means for bringing said end effecter to said workpiece such that said third axis is perpendicular to a surface of the workpiece. 9. A laser system according to claim 8 wherein said means for bringing said end effector to said workpiece include means for rotating said end effecter. 10. A laser system according to claim 6 wherein said articulated optical delivery system includes a multiplicity of rotary axes wherein said first axis is coincident with one of said rotary axes. 11. A laser system according to claim 6 wherein said articulated optical delivery system comprises a mirror for rotation about two axes and wherein said end effector is connected to said mirror. 