A breakaway clutch for robot end-of-arm tooling includes a housing and movable member constrained within the housing for movement along a central axis. A tool connecting member is linked to the movable member by way of a capsule-shaped link. The tool connecting member is located such that a movable member is in the normal position and the tool connecting member is movable in all directions except in the direction of a front housing wall. The movable member is biased toward the normal position, with the biasing being adjustable to vary the bias and thereby vary the sensitivity of the clutch to forces applied to the movable member by way of the tool connecting member. Movement of the movable member away from the normal position is sensed to send an alarm signal to the robot controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A breakaway clutch for robot end-of-arm tooling, comprising: a housing having a cavity, said cavity being defined by a forward cavity wall, a rear cavity wall and a side cavity wall, with said side cavity wall being cylindrical about a central axis; a movable member confined within the cavity, said movable member capable of linear movement along said central axis from a normal position within said cavity spaced apart from said rear cavity wall to a position spaced more closely to said rear cavity wall, said movable member including an inwardly-tapering frustroconical internal side wall joined to a semi-spherical internal end wall, and said internal side and end walls being coaxial with said central axis and open in the direction of said front cavity wall; a tool connecting member having an external end adapted for connecting the clutch to a tool, said tool connecting member having an internal end within said cavity, said internal end having an inwardly-tapering frustroconical internal side wall joined to a semi-spherical internal end wall, and said internal side and end walls being coaxial with said central axis when said movable member is in said normal position and open in the direction of said rear cavity wall; a link spanning between said tool connecting member and said movable member, said link having semi-spherical external end walls engaged with said internal end walls of said movable and tool connecting members, such that said movable member and tool connecting member are spaced apart and forces upon said tool connecting member are applied to said movable member; means for locating said tool connecting member such that when said movable member is in said normal position said tool connecting member is located with respect to said front cavity wall and movable in all directions except in the direction of said front cavity wall; biasing means for biasing said movable member toward said normal position established by said means for locating, said biasing means being adjustable to vary the bias and thereby vary the sensitivity of said clutch to forces applied to said movable member by way of said tool connecting member; and sensing means for sensing movement of said movable member away from said normal position. 2. The clutch of claim 1 where said link is a solid body having a cylindrical side wall between said semi-spherical end walls of said link. 3. The clutch of claim 1 wherein said frustroconical internal side wall in said movable member has a taper of about 13 degrees. 4. The clutch of claim 1 wherein said frustroconical internal side wall in said tool connecting member has a taper of about 52 degrees. 