A modular dexterous grasping hand comprises three rotatable fingers mounted on the mounting plate of a Stewart platform for rotation about parallel axes extending perpendicular to the mounting plate. The fingers have a generally L shape so that the grasping elements at the distal ends of the fingers are spaced from the rotational axes. The grasping elements can thus be positioned along the arcs of circles centered on the rotational axes, and so form grasping triangles of variable shapes and sizes. The fingers are independently driven by motors mounted to the mounting plate. Positional encoders and pressure sensors may be included in the motor drive control system.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A dexterous hand capable of grasping a randomly shaped object, said dexterous hand comprising: a base; at least three grasping fingers mounted to said base for rotation about substantially parallel axes, said axes extending substantially perpendicular to said base, each of the fingers comprising a base end intersecting a respective one of said axes and comprising a distal end, each said distal end having a grasping element and being spaced from said respective axis in a direction perpendicular to said respective axis, whereby each of said distal ends describes a circle centered on the respective axis upon rotation of said fingers, wherein each of said fingers comprises a rigid rod or tube having said base end extending substantially transverse to said respective axis and having said distal end extending substantially parallel to said respective axis; and means mounted to said base for independently rotating each of said fingers, whereby said fingers can grasp the randomly shaped object by rotating said fingers in an arc within a plane substantially parallel to said base. 2. The dexterous hand of claim 1 comprising three of said grasping fingers, wherein said parallel axes comprise fixed axes which form apexes of a triangle. 3. The dexterous hand of claim 1 wherein each said grasping element comprises an elastomeric sphere mounted to one of said distal ends. 4. The dexterous hand of claim 1 wherein all of said fingers are identical. 5. The dexterous hand of claim 1 wherein said fingers are sized and positioned such that said circles meet substantially at a point, whereby small objects may be grasped. 6. The dexterous hand of claim 1 wherein said rotating means comprise: a servomotor for each of said fingers, each of said servomotors being fixed to said base and having a rotatable output shaft coaxial with one of said axes, wherein the base end of a respective one of said fingers is fixed to said output shaft; and control means for independently operating each of said servomotors. 7. The dexterous hand of claim 6 further including pressure sensors associated with said rotating means for determining when the object has been grasped. 8. The dexterous hand of claim 6 including means for determining a rotational position of each of said fingers. 9. The dexterous hand of claim 6 wherein said base comprises a mounting plate to which said servomotors are fixed, wherein said axes extend substantially transverse to said mounting plate and said base ends of said fingers extend substantially parallel to said mounting plate. 10. The dexterous hand of claim 9 wherein said base comprises a Stewart platform having telescopic legs, whereby said mounting plate may be moved for fine manipulation of the object. 11. A modular dexterous hand capable of grasping a randomly shaped object, comprising: a Stewart platform which may be attached to a robot arm, said Stewart platform having a mounting plate, an attachment plate attachable to the robot arm, and six telescoping legs connecting said mounting plate to said attachment plate; means for defining three fixed rotational axes mounted to said mounting plate, said rotational axes extending substantially parallel to one another and substantially perpendicular to said mounting plate, said axes defining an equilateral triangle; three grasping fingers, each of said grasping fingers having a base end rotatably mounted on one of said rotational axes and having a distal end having a grasping element and being spaced from said respective axis in a direction perpendicular to said respective axis, whereby each of said distal ends describes a circle centered on said respective axis upon rotation of said fingers, wherein each of said fingers comprise a rigid rod or tube having said base end extending substantially transverse to said respective axis and having said distal end extending substantially parallel to said respective axis; and means mounted to said mounting plate for independently rotating each of said fingers, whereby the randomly shaped object can be grasped by rotating said fingers in an arc within a plane substantially parallel to said mounting plate, whereby the object may be subjected to fine positional manipulations by varying a length of said legs of said Stewart platform, and whereby the object may be subjected to gross positional manipulations by movement of the robot arm. 12. The dexterous hand of claim 11 wherein said rotating means comprise: a servomotor for each of said fingers, each of said servomotors being fixed to said mounting plate and having a rotatable output shaft to which the base end of a respective one of said fingers is fixed; and control means for independently operating each of said servomotors. 