A handling and packaging system for utensils comprised of a device for packaging the utensils; and a device for obtaining the utensils and moving them to the packaging device. Preferably, the obtaining device includes N specialized end-effectors which seize the utensils, where N.gtoreq.1 and is an integer. A method for utensil handling and packaging. The method comprises the steps of obtaining the utensil and packaging the utensil. Preferably, the obtaining step includes the steps of moving an end-effector in proximity to the utensil. An end-effector for a robot comprising a structure and a device for producing magnetic force to seize objects made of metal. The producing device is supported by the structure. A bin for holding utensils. The bin is comprised of a base; and a container wherein the utensils are stored. The container is supported by the base such that one end of the container is higher than the other end of the container. A bin for holding utensils. The bin is comprised of a base having a center line. The bin is also comprised of a first divider disposed on the base on one side of the center line and offset therefrom. Moreover, there is a second divider disposed on the base of the other side of the center line and also therefrom but not opposite the first divider such that utensils are stored in the base behind the first and second dividers and are maintained in a longitudinal alignment thereby.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for utensil handling and packaging comprising the steps of: moving an end-effector in proximity to the utensil disposed in a bin; seizing the utensil by the end-effector; and packaging the utensil with a bagger. 2. A method as described in claim 1 wherein the seizing step includes the steps of producing on a magnetic force in the end-effector such that the utensil is seized by the end-effector; moving the end-effector with the utensil to the bagger; and turning off the magnetic force so the utensil is released by the end-effector and the utensil goes into a bag in the bagger. 3. A handling and packaging system for utensils comprising: means for packaging the utensils; and means for obtaining one utensil at a time from a bin with a plurality of utensils, each of which is in contact with at least another utensil therein, and moving said utensil to the packaging means. 4. A handling and packaging system for utensils comprising: means for packaging the utensils; at least one bin which as a plurality of utensils, each of which is in contact with at least another utensil therein; and means for obtaining one utensil at a time from the bin and moving them to the packaging means. 5. A method for utensil handling and packaging comprising the steps of: obtaining the utensil from a bin which holds a plurality of utensils, each of which is in contact with at least another utensil therein; and packaging the utensil. 6. A handling and packaging system for utensils comprising: means for packaging the utensils; a robot; an end-effector with an arm connected to the robot, said end-effector connected to the arm such that the arm moves the end-effector to seize the utensil and provide it to the packaging means; and bins within which the utensils are stored such that at least a side of the utensil being obtained by the end-effector is exposed thereto. 7. A system as described in claim 6 wherein the packaging means includes a bagger that holds a bag. 8. A system as described in claim 8 wherein the packaging means includes a chute communicating with the bag such that when the end-effector provides the utensil to the bagger, the utensil goes into the chute and is guided by the chute into the bag. 9. A system as described in claim 8 wherein the end-effector includes means for producing a magnetic force, said force seizing the utensil from the bin when the end-effector is placed in proximity to the utensil in the bin, and said utensil being provided to the chute of the bagger when the producing means no longer produces the force after the arm has moved the end-effector in proximity to the chute such that the utensil then goes into the chute. 