An injection molding process creates a micro-cleanroom environment inside a mold cavity which can stay closed to airborne contaminants while ejecting and transferring the molded part out. The molded part is formed and solidified at a parting-line plane within the mold cavity, then is carried rearward on the movable mold insert to a second plane where it is stripped off and transferred out through a discharge aperture which is open when the mold cavity is in the second plane but closed off when in the first plane. The aperture faces substantially downward to prevent entry by upwelling thermal air currents. External supplied filtered gas can provide positive pressure through vents within the moldset's internal space. This maximizes mold and part cleanliness while speeding up "mold-open" cycle; may eliminate HEPA filters/enclosures and robots. Optical disks, lenses, food packaging and medical parts are suggested uses.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for injection molding plastic articles within a moldset having a mold cavity having A and B sides on either side of a parting line which defines a first vertical plane, with opposing A and B partforming surfaces capable of contollably traveling between a first position and a second position in each molding cycle, and the cavity capable of being controllably supplied internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when in the second position, comprising the steps of: a. closing the mold cavity to the first position to seal off an outside perimeter of the cavity from being in fluid communication with air external to the moldset, wherein the opposing A and B partforming surfaces being separated by a first distance; b. injecting molten plastic into the closed cavity while in the first position to form a molded plastic article and cooling the molded article until the molded article is solidified; c. moving one of the partforming surfaces to a second distance relative to the opposing partforming surface, the movement ending at the second position located at a second vertical plane, the second distance being greater than the first distance, and pressurizing the mold cavity internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when the second position is reached, so as to create positive pressure higher than ambient air pressure external to the moldset; d. transferring the molded article out of the moldset through an aperture in the mold cavity in the second position, the mold cavity having a closed outside perimeter except for the aperture which is in fluid communication with the ambient air external to the moldset only when in the second position, and through the aperture the pressurized filtered gas is purged out of the moldset to prevent convective air currents external to the mold cavity from contacting the partforming surfaces therein. 2. A method for injection molding plastic articles within a moldset having a mold cavity having A and B sides on either side of a parting line which defines a first vertical plane, with opposing A and B partforming surfaces capable of contollably traveling between a first position and a second position in each molding cycle, comprising the steps of: a. closing the mold cavity to the first position to seal off an outside perimeter of the cavity from being in fluid communication with air external to the moldset, wherein the opposing A and B partforming surfaces being separated by a first distance; b. injecting molten plastic into the closed cavity while in the first position to form a molded plastic article and cooling the molded article until the molded article is solidified; c. moving one of the partforming surfaces to a second distance relative to the opposing partforming surface, the movement ending at the second position located at a second vertical plane, the second distance being greater than the first distance, d. transferring the molded article out of the moldset through an aperture in the mold cavity in the second position, the mold cavity having a closed outside perimeter except for the aperture which is in fluid communication with air external to the moldset only when in the second position, and the aperture is downward facing to prevent convective air currents external to the mold cavity from contacting the partforming surfaces therein. 3. A method for injection molding plastic articles within a moldset having a mold cavity having A and B sides on either side of a parting line which defines a first vertical plane, with opposing A and B partforming surfaces capable of contollably traveling between a first position and a second position in each molding cycle, and the cavity capable of being controllably supplied internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when in the second position, comprising the steps of: a. closing the mold cavity to the first position to seal off an outside perimeter of the cavity from being in fluid communication with air external to the moldset, wherein the opposing A and B partforming surfaces being separated by a first distance; b. injecting molten plastic into the closed cavity while in the first position to form a molded plastic article and cooling the molded article until the molded article is solidified; c. moving one of the partforming surfaces to a second distance relative to the opposing partforming surface, the movement ending at the second position located at a second vertical plane, the second distance being greater than the first distance, and pressurizing the mold cavity internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when the second position is reached, so as to create positive pressure higher than ambient air pressure external to the moldset; d. transferring the molded article out of the moldset through an aperture in the mold cavity in the second position, the mold cavity having a closed outside perimeter except for the aperture which is in fluid communication with the ambient air external to the moldset only when in the second position, and the aperture is downward facing to prevent convective air currents external to the mold cavity from contacting the partforming surfaces therein, and through the downward facing aperture the pressurized filtered gas is purged out of the moldset to prevent convective air currents external to the mold cavity from contacting the partforming surfaces therein. 4. A method of claim 3 wherein gravity is utilized in the step of transferring the molded article out of the moldset, by locating the molded article vertically over the downward facing aperture within the same second plane. 5. A method of claim 3 wherein the molded article adheres to one of the partforming surfaces as the mold cavity moves between the first position and the second position. 6. A method of claim 3 wherein separation of the molded article from its partforming surfaces is assisted by the pressurized filtered gas entering therebetween from a passageway provided within the moldset. 7. A method of claim 3 wherein the mold cavity formed within the moldset is partly evacuated of gases before the injection of the plastic melt has started. 8. A method of claim 3 wherein said pressurized filtered gas continues flowing after the molded article is ejected, whereby the ambient air is prevented from entering the mold cavity through the downward facing aperture. 9. A method of claim 3 wherein the downward facing aperture is suitably shaped to the molded article so as to minimize clearance between the downward facing aperture and the molded article and thus minimize the convective currents air from entering the mold cavity. 10. A method of claim 3 wherein, after the molded article and the one of the partforming surfaces travels together to the second distance, separation of the molded article from its partforming surface is assisted by mechanical separating force exerted through a combination of ejector pin with stripper sleeve. 11. A method of claim 3 wherein transfer of the article out of the moldset by the downward facing aperture is by a gravity-fed guide track into a part-collecting nesting fixture. 12. A method of claim 3 wherein the article is an optical disk. 13. A method of claim 3 wherein the article is a medical device. 