An end effector is disclosed which translates in a cartesian coordinate system including a first axis and a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. The end effector includes apparatus for receiving a laser beam from an articulated optical delivery system and for transmitting it along the first and the second axes and translating apparatus for translating the apparatus for receiving and for transmitting along the first and the second axes. Also disclosed is a method for cutting utilizing the end effector.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector suitable for attachment to a robot as the final mechanical positioner therefor for translating in a cartesian coordinate system comprising a first axis and a second axis perpendicular to said first axis comprising: means for receiving a laser beam from an articulated optical delivery system and for transmitting it along said first and said second axes; and translating means for translating said means for receiving and for transmitting along said first and said second axes. 2. An end effector according to claim 1 wherein said means for receiving and transmitting include two mirrors. 3. An end effector according to claim 1 wherein said means for receiving and transmitting include three mirrors. 4. An end effector according to claim 1 and also including follower means for receiving said laser beam along said second axis and for transmitting it along a third axis. 5. An end effector according to claim 4 wherein said follower means includes a lens. 6. A laser system comprising: an articulated optical delivery system associated with a robot for delivering a laser beam; an end effector attached to said robot for translating in a cartesian coordinate system comprising a first axis and a second axis perpendicular to said first axis comprising: means for receiving said laser beam from said articulated optical system and for transmitting it along said first and said second axes; and translating means for translating said means for receiving and for transmitting along said first and said second axes. 7. A laser system according to claim 6 and also including follower means for receiving said laser beam along said second axis and for transmitting it along a third axis. 8. A laser system according to claim 7 wherein said articulated optical delivery system comprises means for bringing said end effector to said workpiece such that said third axis is perpendicular to a surface of the workpiece. 9. A method of cutting lines and curves in a cartesian plane including the steps of: using an articulated optical delivery system associated with a robot to bring an end effector attached to said robot perpendicular to a surface of a workpiece to be cut; transmitting a laser beam from said articulated optical delivery system to said end effector; receiving said laser beam from said articulated optical delivery system and transmitting it, via means for transmitting said laser beam, along first and second axes of said end effector; translating said means for transmitting said laser beam along said first and said second axes; and simultaneously performing said steps of transmitting, receiving and translating thereby to produce cuts in said workpiece definable in a cartesian coordinate system. 