A method and apparatus for checking the alignment of a torch on a robotic welder to assure that the torch is in the proper position before an automatic welding operation commences or continues. An alignment verification device which includes a plunger with a contact area of relatively small diameter is positioned at the workstation. The projecting wire tip of the robotic torch is automatically moved axially toward the plunger, and, if alignment is within the desired range, the tip will contact and depress the plunger. Upon depression of the plunger, a cam-operated limit switch is closed to send a signal to the robot that alignment is acceptable. If the torch is out of alignment for any reason, or if the welding wire is bent or otherwise misaligned, the wire will miss the contact area and the welding operation will cease so that faulty welds are prevented.
Claims We claim: 1. In a robotic welder having a torch with a wire tip for welding a workpiece at a workstation, a device for checking the alignment of the torch comprising: a contact area; means yieldingly supporting the contact area at the workstation in a preselected location in the path of the torch for contact by the wire tip, when the tip is properly aligned, as the torch moves along the path; means for moving the torch toward the contact area; and means for providing an alignment signal indicative of the torch being in the proper position for welding at the workstation when the wire tip contacts the contact area and moves the contact area from the preselected location. 2. The invention as set forth in claim 1 wherein the contact area is round and lies in a plane perpendicular to the path of the torch as the torch approaches the area. 3. The invention as set forth in claim 2 wherein the radius of the area is less than approximately one-tenth of an inch. 4. In a robotic welder having a torch with a wire tip for welding a workpiece at a workstation, a device for checking the alignment of the torch comprising: a contact area supported at the workstation in a preselected location in the path of the torch and adapted for contact by the wire tip, when the tip is properly aligned, as the torch moves along the path; means for moving the torch toward the contact area; means for providing an alignment signal indicative of the torch being in the proper position for welding at the workstation when the wire tip contacts the contact area; and a plunger movably supported at the workstation and biased toward a first position, and wherein contact area is supported by the plunger such that the plunger is moved against the bias when the wire tip contacts the contact area. 5. The invention as set forth in claim 4 wherein the means for providing an alignment signal comprises a switch operable by the plunger. 6. The invention as set forth in claim 5 wherein the plunger includes a tapered surface and the switch includes an operator contacted by the tapered surface. 7. In a robotic welder having a torch with a wire tip for welding a workpiece at a workstation, a method for checking the alignment of the torch comprising: supporting a moveable contact area of given size at the workstation and biasing the contact area to a preselected location in the path of the torch, the contact area adapted for contact by the wire tip, when the tip is properly aligned; moving the torch in a predetermined path toward the contact area; and providing an alignment signal indicative of the torch being in the proper position for welding at the workstation if the wire tip contacts the contact area and moves the contact area against the bias as the torch moves in the predetermined path. 8. The invention as set forth in claim 7 including the step of providing a round contact area which lies in a plane perpendicular to the path of the torch as the torch approaches the area. 9. The invention as set forth in claim 8 wherein the step of providing a round contact area includes providing the radius of the area to be less than approximately one-tenth of an inch. 10. The invention as set forth in claim 7 including the step of changing the range of wire tip deviations that are detectible by varying the given size of the contact area. 11. In a robotic welder having a torch with a wire tip for welding a workpiece at a workstation, a method for checking the alignment of the torch comprising: supporting a contact area of given size at the workstation in a preselected location in the path of the torch, the contact area adapted for contact by the wire tip, when the tip is properly aligned, wherein the step of supporting a contact area includes supporting a movable pin from the workstation and biasing the pin toward a first position, moving the torch in a predetermined path toward the contact area; and providing an alignment signal indicative of the torch being in the proper position for welding at the workstation if the wire tip contacts the contact area as the torch moves in the predetermined path and moves the pin against the bias. 12. The invention as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of providing an alignment signal comprises operating a switch with the moving pin. 13. The invention as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of supporting a movable pin includes supporting the pin for movement along an axis; and moving the torch parallel to the axis as the torch approaches the contact area. 14. The invention as set forth in claim 13 including supporting the contact area in a plane perpendicular to the path of the torch. 15. In a robotic welder having a torch with a wire tip for welding a workpiece at a workstation, a device for checking the alignment of the torch comprising: an axially movable plunger having a generally flat contact area supported at the workstation in a preselected location in the path of the torch with the axis of the plunger generally parallel to the torch path as the torch moves toward the contact area; means for yieldingly biasing the plunger to a first non-contacted position and facilitating axial movement of the plunger from the first position toward a second contacted position when the torch is moved with the wire tip contacting the contact area; and means for providing an alignment signal indicative of the torch being in the proper position for welding at the workstation when the plunger moves to the second position. 16. The invention as set forth in claim 15 wherein the contact area has a cross-sectional area several times larger than the cross-sectional area of the wire tip. 17. The invention as set forth in claim 15 wherein the contact area is circular in configuration. 18. The invention as set forth in claim 15 wherein the contact area is planar and perpendicular to the axis of the plunger. 19. The invention as set forth in claim 15 including means for selectively varying the area of the contact area to provide an adjustable range of wire tip deviations wherein the alignment signal will be provided. 20. The invention as set forth in claim 17 wherein the contact area has a diameter on the order of 0.13 inches. 