An article stack unifying device having article stacking elements is provided to stack a plurality of articles on a surface on or of a rotatable surface. While the articles are being stacked on the selected surface a quantity of wrapping film is wrapped around the stack of articles at intervals during the stacking process and at the completion of the stack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for creating a unitized stack of articles by alternately forming a layer of articles and wrapping said layer of articles without the need for an article guide frame, said apparatus comprising: a turntable mounted at a fixed vertical height for supporting said stack of articles; a palletizer for stacking a layer of said articles on said turntable or on a previously deposited layer of articles by selectively placing less than a complete layer of articles on said turntable and subsequently placing additional articles on said turntable until a complete layer of articles has been formed; wrap means serving means for serving wrap means to said turntable to wrap a layer of articles unsupported by a guide frame while said turntable is rotated after said palletizer has located said articles to form a complete layer of articles on said turntable or on a previously formed layer and prior to said palletizer locating subsequent articles on said previously deposited articles; cutting element means for severing said wrap means after said wrap means serving means has served wrap means to multiple layers of articles stacked on said turntable by said palletizer. 2. The invention in accordance with claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises: controller means initiating rotation of said turntable; said controller means initiating stacking of said articles on said turntable; said controller means initiating serving of said wrap means by said wrap means serving means: said controller means initiating severing of said wrap means by said cutting element means. 3. The invention in accordance with claim 2 wherein said controller means can initiate any of its initiating functions while initiating any other of its initiating functions. 4. The invention in accordance with claim 2 wherein said palletizer includes an upstanding mast, a transverse boom mounted for vertical movement on said mast, a grasping means carried mounted for transverse movement on said boom; said grasping means positionable above said turntable and above an area not occupied by said turntable. 5. The invention in accordance with claim 4 wherein said wrap means serving means has a serving means unwind, a first and a second main drive roll for unwinding wrap means from said serving means and a film guide arm for assisting serving wrap means to said turntable. 6. Apparatus for the construction of a unitized load of individual articles laterally unsupported by said apparatus, said articles unitized through the use of film wrap on said articles after a plurality of articles making up a layer of articles is placed on said apparatus before subsequent articles for making up a subsequent layer of articles are placed on said apparatus, said apparatus comprising: a turntable means capable of rotation and having a deck surface equipped with transport means for supporting said unitized load of individual articles; input station means for accumulating individual articles proximate to said turntable means; mast means supported vertically adjacent said turntable means; boom means carried on said mast means, said boom means movable vertically along said mast means; gripping means carried on said boom means for gripping articles, said gripping means positionable over said input station means and said turntable means; wrap means unwind stand carried on said mast means, said wrap means unwind stand movable vertically along said mast means; wrap means clamp for restraining said wrap means mounted on said turntable means; wrap means guide arm between said wrap means unwind stand and said wrap means clamp for guiding said wrap means from said unwind stand to said turntable means to wrap a layer of unsupported articles prior to said grasping means locating a subsequent layer of articles on said stack. 7. The invention in accordance with claim 1 wherein said wrap means guide arm is mounted to said wrap means unwind stand. 8. The invention inn accordance with claim 1 wherein said turntable means supports a cutting element means. 9. The invention in accordance with claim 1 wherein further comprising trailing edge control means adjacent said turntable means. 10. A method of unitizing a stack of articles including the steps of: feeding ann empty pallet means to a turntable, said turntable stabilized at a fixed location; picking up a number of articles to be stacked from a stationary conveyor; transferring said articles to said pallet means; repeating said pick up and transferring steps for a predetermined number of pick ups and transfers to form a layer of articles; rotating said turntable after a layer of articles has been formed; feeding film from a film storage roll to said rotating turntable as said turntable rotates to wrap said layer of articles before further articles are transferred to said pallet means; repeating the step of repeating said pick up and transferring steps for a predetermined number of pick ups and transfers to form a layer of articles, the step of rotating said turntable after a layer of articles has been formed, and the step of feeding film from a film storage roll to said rotating turntable as said turntable rotates to wrap said layer of articles until a unitized stack of articles is formed on said turntable; cutting said film after at least one rotation of said turntable. 