A method for removing metallic plugs from conduits such as the heat exchanger tubes in a nuclear steam generator is disclosed herein. In such tubes, plugs formed from a cylindrical shell of Inconel are radially expanded in sealing engagement with the open end of an Inconel tube mounted in a tubesheet by pulling down a cork-shaped expander element disposed in wedging engagement with the shell. The method of the invention removes such plugs by pushing the expander element from the open end back to the closed end of the shell, and then heating the shell to a temperature which substantially lessens its tensile yield while applying a tensile force along the longitudinal axis of the plug shell sufficient to elongate it. In the method, an electrically conductive push-rod is utilized which simultaneously conducts a substantial current of electricity through the plug shell while pushing against the closed end thereof.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for removing a plug from a conduit wherein said plug is formed from a metallic shell whose interior includes a tapered wall section as well as an expander element that wedgingly coacts with the tapered wall section when moved into engagement therewith to expand the outer wall of the shell into engagement with the conduit, comprising the steps of: a. moving the expander element out of engagement with the tapered wall section; b. heating the tapered wall section to a temperature sufficient to substantially lower the tensile yield strength of said wall section by applying an electric current to said wall section with a pushing means; c. applying a tensile force across the tapered wall section with said pushing means while said wall section is at said yield strength lowering temperature that is sufficient to elongate the same along the longitudinal axis of the conduit, thereby lessening the engagement between said wall section and said conduit, and d. pulling said plug from said conduit. 2. A method for moving a plug from a conduit as defined in claim 1, further including the step of allowing said wall section to substantially cool down and thereby contract before pulling said plug from said conduit. 3. A method for removing a plug from a conduit as defined in claim 1, wherein said tapered wall section is heated to a temperature sufficient to lower the tensile yield strength by about 50 percent. 4. A method for removing a plug from a conduit as defined in claim 1, wherein the plug shell is cylindrical, the conduit is a tube, and said shell and tube are both formed from an alloy that includes nickel. 5. A method for removing a plug from a conduit as defined in claim 4, wherein the tapered wall section is heated by conducting an electric current therethrough sufficient to bring the wall section to a temperature of about 1300 degrees F. 6. A method for removing a plug from a conduit as defined in claim 5, wherein said plug shell has an open and a closed end, and wherein said tensile force is applied by grasping said open end and extending a push-rod means against said closed end. 7. A method for removing a plug from a conduit as defined in claim 6, wherein said push-rod means simultaneously pushes against the closed end while conducting said electric current through said tapered wall section of said shell. 8. A method for removing a plug from a tube mounted in a tubesheet, wherein said plug includes an elongated cylindrical shell formed from a nickel alloy having a closed end and an open end, the interior of said shell including a tapered wall section, a well as an expander element that wedgingly coacts with the tapered wall section to radially expand the outer wall of the shell into engagement with the inner wall of the tube when the expander element is pulled from the closed end to the open end of the shell, comprising the steps of: a. pushing the expander element from the open end to the closed end of the shell; b. heating the tapered wall section to a temperature sufficient to lower the tensile yield thereof by at least 50 per cent by conducting an electric current across said wall section by applying an electric current through said wall section with a pushing means; c. applying a tensile force across the tapered wall section with said pushing means that is sufficient to elastically elongate the plug shell along its longitudinal axis so that the engagement between the outer wall of the shell and the inner wall of the tube is reduced, wherein said tensile force is applied while said tapered wall is being heated to said tensile yield lowering temperature; d. disconnecting said electric current from said wall section and allowing said wall section to cool and thermally contract further out of engagement with said tube; and e. pulling said plug from said tube. 