In a homopolar, switched reluctance, or interior permanent magnet motor, formed rotor laminations are employed to reduce eddy current losses in the pole faces and body of the rotor. The homopolar and switched reluctance motor lamination is comprised of a magnetic portion having a plurality of pole pieces extending generally radially outward from the core portion and forming a plurality of interpole spaces. Non-magnetic, high resistance segments are bonded between the pole pieces to minimize windage losses and increase strength. The non-magnetic segments may be thinner in the axial direction than the magnetic portion to prevent contact between stack laminations. Additionally, a gap may be left between the interior core portion and the non-magnetic segment to facilitate use of automated welding techniques. In the interior permanent magnet motor lamination, the non-magnetic segments perform the function of circumferential bridges, with or without restraining ligaments, to increase the rotor strength and speed capability and increase specific torque.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for constructing a disk lamination for the rotor of a homopolar or switched reluctance magnetic machine comprising: (a) providing a magnetic portion of a disk lamination having an interior core portion of uniform thickness and a plurality of pole pieces extending generally outward therefrom along respective radial lines so as to define an outer circumferential disk edge and form an interpole space, respectively, between each adjacent pair of said pole pieces, respectively; (b) inserting the magnetic portion in a jig, the jig comprising a plurality of tables corresponding geometrically in location and configuration to the plurality of interpole spaces; (c) positioning the magnetic portion such that the pole pieces are position.RTM.d between the plurality of tables; (d) guiding a non-magnetic segment, respectively, into each interpole space, respectively, by sliding said segment along the top of the table until angularly opposed edges of the non-magnetic segment abut respective adjacent edges of the pole pieces adjacent thereto; and (e) bonding the edges of the pole pieces to the abutting edges of the non-magnetic segments. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of bonding comprises joining the edges of the pole pieces to the abutting edges of the non-magnetic segments by laser beam welding. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of bonding comprises joining the edges of the pole pieces to the abutting edges of the non-magnetic segments by electron-beam welding. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of bonding comprises joining the edges of the pole pieces to the abutting edges of the non-magnetic segments by robotic index welding. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the thickness of the non-magnetic segments is less than the thickness of the magnetic portion, as measured in the axial direction. 