A laser multiplexing system is capable of time-sharing high-power laser output among a number of work stations. The laser beam is directable in quick succession into the ends of various optic fibers leading to remote work stations. The precise position of focus of the beam into each fiber is originally determined and continually monitored during the beam travel cycle for each work station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser multiplexer for time-sharing a high-power laser among a plurality of work stations, comprising: a single laser light source capable of producing a high powered laser beam; a plurality of optic fibers, one optic fiber for each one of said plurality of work stations, for conducting the laser beam through an interior of the optic fiber to its respective work station; means for measuring the laser beam reaching a particular work station through the interior of the selected optic fiber; and means responsive to the measurement for coupling the laser beam into an output end of the optic fiber so that the intensity of the laser beam exiting the optic fiber at the work station is at a maximum. 2. The laser multiplexer of claim 1 wherein said means for selectively coupling the laser beam into the interior of a particular optic fiber comprises means for focusing the laser beam onto an input end of the optic fiber. 3. The laser multiplexer of claim 2 wherein said focusing means comprises means for automatically determining the focus parameters for input of the laser beam into the optic fiber which produce the maximum intensity at the output of the optic fiber. 4. The laser multiplexer of claim 2 wherein the means for focusing laser light comprises a movable mirror. 5. The laser multiplexer of claim 1 wherein the means for selectively coupling the laser beam comprises: means for selectively focusing the laser beam into a selected optic fiber; means for storing the focus parameters of the laser beam for each optic fiber which yield a maximum intensity at each work station; and means for selectively recalling the focus parameters for a particular station and causing the focusing means to direct the laser beam accordingly. 6. The laser multiplexer of claim 5 further comprising a means for controlling the laser such that a laser beam pulse of specified power is produced a specified number of times for specified durations separated by specified intervals only while the laser beam is properly focused into a specified optic fiber. 7. The laser multiplexer of claim 6 further comprising: storage means for storing the power parameters for each station; storage means for storing the identity of the stations ready to receive the laser beam; and selecting means for selecting a ready station, whereby, upon selection of a ready station, the stored focus parameters for the selected station are recalled, the laser beam is focused according to the recalled parameters, and the controlling means causes the light source to produce a laser beam according to the stored power parameters for the selected station. 8. The laser multiplexer of claim 7 wherein said selecting means selects a next ready station stored in said storage means on the basis of its power specification so that only a minimum change in power over the previously-selected station is required. 9. A method of multiplexing a high-powered laser beam among a plurality of receivers capable of measuring the received beam's intensity, comprising the scanning, in a stepwise manner, the laser beam at low power across each receiver; measuring the intensity of the received laser beam at each step; determining which step yielded a maximum intensity at each receiver; memorizing that step for each receiver; recalling and returning to that step whenever a particular receiver is ready to receive; and energizing the laser at a predetermined high-power level. 10. The method of multiplexing the laser beam of claim 9, further comprising the steps of: measuring the intensity of the laser beam received at the receiver during high-power energization; and rescanning, in a stepwise manner, the laser beam at lower power across that particular receiver if the measured intensity during the high-power energization falls below a predetermined level in order to determine and memorize a new step which yields maximum intensity at that receiver. 11. The method of multiplexing the laser beam of claim 10, further comprising the steps of: prioritizing the selection of receivers ready to receive on the basis of their specified high-power requirement such that a minimal amount of power variation is required. 12. A laser multiplexer for time-sharing a high-power laser among a plurality of remote work stations, comprising: a single variable-power laser source capable of producing a high-power laser beam; a variable position mirror positioned in the laser beam's path; a plurality of optic fibers capable of receiving the laser beam reflected off the mirror and conducting the beam to remote work stations; a detector positioned at each work station capable of measuring the intensity of the laser beam arriving at the work station; a CPU capable of determining the position of the mirror that yields a maximum intensity at each work station's detector; a first RAM capable of storing the position of maximum intensity for each work station; an input means for specifying pulse power, pulse duration, pulse interval and total number of pulses required at each station; a second RAM capable of storing these pulse specifications; a queue for holding those work stations ready to receive the laser beam as specified; and said CPU also being capable of sequentially selecting work stations ready to receive a laser beam, causing the mirror to be moved to the corresponding position held in the first RAM, energizing the laser source according to the specifications held in the second RAM, and causing the position for maximum intensity to be redetermined if the intensity of the laser beam arriving at the work station as measured by the detector falls below a predetermined level. 13. A method for time-sharing a high-power laser among a plurality of work stations for the purpose of performing useful work such as precision welding or cutting, said method comprising the steps of: determining the focus parameters between the laser and each input of a plurality of fiber-optic cables, each cable being assigned to a respective work station; storing the focus parameters for each work station; manipulating a workpiece at a work station to present it to a laser beam output from the respective fiber-optic cable; retrieving the focus parameters for the work station ready to receive the laser energy; and focusing the output of the high-power laser according to the retrieved focus parameter into the input of the respective fiber-optic cable, thereby transmitting the laser energy to the work station. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: measuring the intensity of the laser beam arriving at a work station; refocusing the laser beam at the input of the fiber-optic cable if the measured intensity falls below a certain level; and storing the new focus parameters for use with that work station. 15. A method of time-sharing a single laser to weld gold links in a process for manufacturing a plurality of gold chains, the method comprising the steps of: determining the focus parameters between the laser and each input of a plurality of fiber-optic cables, each cable being assigned to a respective work station; storing the focus parameters for each work station; manipulating unfinished gold chains at each assembler so as to present one link at a time for welding by an appropriately deflected laser beam; retrieving the stored focus parameters for the work station ready to receive the laser energy; and focusing the output of the high-power laser, according to the retrieved focus parameters, into the input of the respective fiber-optic cable. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of: measuring the intensity of the laser beam arriving at the work station; refocusing the laser beam at the input of the fiber-optic cable if the measured intensity falls below a certain level; and storing the new focus parameters for use with that work station. 17. A method of time-sharing a single laser to weld links in a process for manufacturing a plurality of interocular lenses simultaneously, the process comprising the steps of: determining the focus parameters between the laser and each input of a plurality of fiber-optic cables, each cable being assigned to a respective work station; storing the focus parameters for each work station; manipulating interocular lenses at each work station so as to present the lens for welding by an appropriately deflected laser beam; retrieving the stored focus parameters for each work station ready to receive the laser energy; and focusing the output of the high-power laser according to the retrieved focus parameters into the input of the respective fiber-optic cable. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the steps of: measuring the intensity of the laser beam arriving at the work station; refocusing the laser beam at the input of the fiber-optic cable if the measured intensity falls below a certain level; and storing the new focus parameters for use with that work station. 19. A laser time sharing system for sharing a single laser among a plurality of work stations, the laser time sharing system comprising: a single laser device, the laser device capable of outputting a laser beam; a plurality of fiber optic transmission lines, each line having an input and an output, for transmitting the laser beam to one of the plurality of work stations; a beam directing means for selectively coupling the laser beam to the input of one of the fiber optic transmission lines by selectively directing the laser beam; a measuring means located at each work station for continuously detecting an intensity of the laser beam being output at the particular station and for providing a power detection signal; a single CPU for obtaining the most optimum coupling between the laser beam and the inputs of the fiber optic transmission lines, the single CPU controlling the beam directing means in response to the continuous power detection signals being provided by each measuring means. 