A method of controlling the movement of an articulated arm to permit the arm to move an end point thereof more freely and more directly to a preselected target. This smoother operation is obtained by a computer calculating the change in joint angle using an iterative pseudo inverse Jacobian having a damping factor. The damping factor is adjusted for each iteration based on the distance necessary to reach said preselected target.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling the movement of an articulated arm comprising applying command to a control computer to define a target position for an end point of said articulated arm, applying an iterative pseudoinverse Jacobian having a damping factor for defining the amount of change of each joint angle for each joint to be actuated of said arm, changing the magnitude of said damping factor for each iteration in accordance with the calculated workspace distance between the end point and the target position so that said damping factor increases with an increase in said distance, adjusting the angles of said joints of said arms in accordance with angles determined using a number of iterations in the range of 1 to 20. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said joint angles are adjusted after each iteration. 3. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein said damping factor is adjusted in accordance with the formula; where k.sub.3 =the adjusted damping factor k=a selected constant in the range of 0.001 to 1 times the total length of the articulated arm in meters .parallel..delta.p.parallel.=the distance between the end point and target positions after each iteration x=a preselected number between 1 and 3. 4. A method as defined in claim 3 wherein x is 2. 5. A method of controlling the operation of an articulated arm to improve the operation of the arm adjacent singularities and in regions of high manipulability, said arm having arm segments pivotally interconnected by articulated joints forming adjustable joint angles between arm segments and actuators for changing said joint angles to move said arm, comprising applying a command to a computer control to define a target position for an end point on said arm, said computer determining the joint angles for said joints required to move said end point toward said target position using an iterative solution based on a pseudoinverse Jacobian matrix in accordance with the formula where I=identity matrix k.sub.3 =variable damping factor determined from the equation where k=a preselected number in the range of 0.001 to 1 times the total length of the arm in meters .parallel..delta.p.parallel.=the distance between the end point and target position after each iteration x=a number selected between 1 and 3 adjusting the value of k.sub.3 for each iteration based on the calculated position of the end point relative to the target position and said computer actuating said actuators for adjusting the joint angles to move said end point on said arm toward said target position after a number of iterations in the range of 1 to 20. 6. A method as defined in claim 5 wherein x is 2. 7. A method as defined in claim 5 wherein said actuators are actuated by said computer to adjust said joint angles to move said end point on said arm toward said target position after each iteration. 