A hybrid robotic vehicle is provided for use in environments which are hazardous to humans, the vehicle being adapted to carry a payload for use in viewing the area or acquiring other types of sensory data. The hybrid robotic vehicle has a main body and four appendages or legs, each of which has a wheel assembly and a track assembly, and is configured to operate having three degrees-of-freedom about one vertical and two horizontal axes, the three degrees-of-freedom permitting improved capability to cross obstacle-strewn terrain, as well as to traverse inclined surfaces while maintaining the main body and its payload in an upright and level attitude. The vehicle may operate in any of wheeled, tracked, or legged modes, with actuators controlling each of the three joint angles on each leg, and having separate motors for driving the wheels and the tracks, the control being effected by a human operator through a control panel computer interface, and a computer relaying commands through a cable tether connected to the vehicle.
Claims We claim: 1. A hybrid robotic vehicle comprising: a main body; a plurality of legs, each of said plurality of legs (1) comprising a strut assembly having a proximal end and a distal end, said proximal end being pivotable about a first horizontal axis independently of rotation of a wheel, and wherein a track assembly on each of said legs is pivotably connected to said distal end of said strut assembly, and (2) being operatively connected to said main body and being pivotable about a vertical axis with respect to said main body; means for selectively operating said vehicle in a wheeled mode, in a tracked mode, or in a legged mode, wherein each of said plurality of legs further comprises a wheel assembly and a track assembly, and wherein said wheel assembly on each of said plurality of legs has driven means for rotating said wheel about said first horizontal axis; and said track assembly on each of said plurality of legs has drive means for driving said track, said track assembly further being pivotable about a second horizontal axis spaced apart at a predetermined distance from said first horizontal axis. 2. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 1 wherein said vehicle has four legs. 3. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 2 wherein said main body has a first actuator housing disposed at each of four corners of said main body, each of said four legs being operatively connected to an associated first actuator housing, and wherein each of said first actuator housings contains a first joint actuator means for pivoting said leg associated therewith about said vertical axis. 4. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 3 wherein each of said legs further comprises a second actuator housing connected to an associated first actuator housing wherein each of said second actuator housings contains a second joint actuator means for pivoting an associated one of said strut assemblies connected thereto about said first horizontal axis of each of said legs. 5. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 4 wherein said strut assembly on each of said legs has a third joint actuator means operatively connected thereto for pivoting said track assembly about said second horizontal axis with respect to said strut assembly. 6. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 5 wherein at least one of said first, second, and third joint actuator means comprises an electric motor operatively coupled with a harmonic drive means for effecting speed reduction of an output of said electric motor, an output of said harmonic drive means further being adapted to effect pivoting at said at least one joint. 7. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for selectively operating said vehicle in said wheeled mode, said tracked mode or said legged mode, comprises an operator station adapted to be disposed in a location remote from an operating environment of said vehicle. 8. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 7 wherein said operator station comprises a computer and an operator control panel in operative communication with said computer. 9. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 1 wherein said vehicle further comprises means for controlling an inclination angle of said main body when said vehicle traverses an inclined surface. 10. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 9 wherein said controlling means further comprises means for maintaining said main body in a substantially upright and level attitude when said vehicle traverses an inclined surface. 11. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 10 wherein said controlling means further comprises a means for sensing a longitudinal angle of inclination and a transverse angle of inclination of said main body, said sensing means being disposed on said main body. 12. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 11 wherein said means for selectively operating said vehicle in said wheeled mode, said tracked mode, or said legged mode, comprises an operator station adapted to be disposed in a location remote from an operating environment of said vehicle. 13. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 12 wherein said operator station comprises a computer and an operator control panel in operative communication with said computer. 14. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 13 wherein said operator station further comprises a chair means for tilting an operator seated thereon at a longitudinal angle and transverse angle corresponding to said longitudinal angle and said transverse angle sensed by said sensing means. 15. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 8 wherein said vehicle and said operator station are operatively connected by a cable. 16. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 8 wherein said operating station further includes a graphics display means for depicting at least one representation of said vehicle at said operating station. 17. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 8 wherein said main body carries means for acquiring sensory data. 18. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined claim 17 wherein said sensory acquiring means comprises a television camera. 19. A hybrid robotic vehicle comprising: a main body; a plurality of appendages, each of said plurality of appendages being connected to said main body, each of said plurality of appendages being pivotable about a vertical axis with respect to said main body; wherein each of said plurality of appendages further comprises a strut assembly having a proximal end and a distal end with respect to said vertical axis, each of said strut assemblies being pivotable about a first horizontal axis at said proximal end; each of said appendages further having a wheel assembly and a track assembly, said wheel assembly being disposed at said proximal end of said strut assembly, said wheel assembly being rotatable independently of the strut assembly about a horizontal axis, said track assembly being connected to said strut assembly near said distal end of said strut assembly, said track assembly being pivotable about a second horizontal axis with respect to said strut assembly; means for selectively positioning said plurality of appendages into a plurality of predetermined locomotion configurations; and locomotion means for moving said vehicle across a surface, said locomotion means being operatively connected to said wheel assembly and said track assembly. 20. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 19 wherein said main body contains a plurality of first actuator housings, each of said first actuator housings having a different one of said plurality of appendages associated therewith, each of said first actuator housings also having a first joint actuating means disposed therein for pivoting each of said associated appendages about said vertical axis. 21. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 20 wherein each of said plurality of appendages further comprises a second actuator housing connected to said associated first joint actuating means, each of said second actuator housings containing a second joint actuating means for pivoting said strut assembly of each appendage about said first horizontal axis independently of said rotation of said wheel assembly, each of said second joint actuating means being connected to said proximal end of said strut assembly. 22. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 21 wherein said strut assembly of each of said plurality of appendages has a third joint actuating means disposed thereon for pivoting said track assembly about said second horizontal axis with respect to said strut assembly. 23. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 22 wherein at least one of said first, second, and third joint actuating means comprises an electric motor adapted to produce positional feedback, said electric motor being operatively coupled to a drive means for pivoting of said at least one joint, said drive means further having speed reducing means for reducing an output speed of said electric motor. 24. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 23 wherein said locomotion means comprises at least one electric motor disposed on each of said plurality of appendages to drive said wheel and said track assembly. 25. A hybrid robotic vehicle as defined in claim 24 wherein said vehicle has four appendages. 