A scanning confocal optical microscope using a Nipkow disc having a plurality of pinholes to project light and an objective lens to receive the light and illuminate points on an object to be viewed. Rotation of the disc scans the points across the object. The object is viewed by viewing the reflected light focused on the pinholes by the ojective lens.
Claims We claim: 1. A scanning microscope for viewing an object comprising: a light source; a pinhole for receiving light from said light source; an objective lens disposed to focus light from said pinhole onto said sample surface area; an apertured rotating disc placed between said pinhole and said objective lens with the axis of rotation of said disc at an angle with respect to the axis of the light from said pinhole passing through apertures in said apertured rotating disc to said objective lens and sample, said objective lens serving to focus light reflected at said sample surface onto said rotating disc whereby light reflected from said surface is transmitted through said apertures; and means for directing said transmitted light onto an image plane and for eliminating from said image plane light from the pinhole reflected by said rotating disc. 2. A scanning microscope as in claim 1 wherein said means for eliminating from said image plane light reflected by the rotating disc comprises an apertured member which interrupts the reflected light and passes transmitted light through the aperture. 3. A scanning microscope as in claim 2 wherein said means for eliminating light reflected from said rotating disc from the image plane includes additionally a polarizer for polarizing light from said pinhole; a quarterwave plate for receiving the light from said pinhole and the light reflected by the sample surface and an analyzer for receiving the transmitted light. 4. A scanning microscope as in claims 1, 2 or 3 including a stop adjacent to and between said objective lens and the object being viewed to stop light specularly reflected at said sample surface. 5. A scanning microscope as in claims 1, 2 or 3 including a beam splitter for passing light from said pinhole to the objective lens and for reflecting and directing the transmitted light. 6. A scanning microscope as in claim 5 in which said beam splitter is a polarizing beam splitter. 7. A scanning microscope as in claims 1, 2 or 3 including a field lens for receiving light from said pinhole and focusing it onto said objective lens. 8. A scanning microscope as in claim 7 in which said field lens is a split lens with one half on each side of said rotating disc to pass collimated light through said apertures. 9. A scanning microscope for viewing an object comprising a scanning disc with a plurality of pinholes arranged in a predetermined pattern; a light source on one side of said disc for illuminating an area of said disc; a first polarizer for polarizing the light which illuminates the disc; an objective lens on the opposite side of said disc for focusing light diffracted by said pinholes onto the object to illuminate a plurality of points on said object; means for mounting said disc with its rotational axis at an angle with respect to the axis of light from said source to said objective lens; means for rotating said disc to scan the points across the object; said objective lens serving to receive light reflected from the object and focus the light on corresponding pinholes; a quarterwave plate interposed between said objective lens and disc to intercept the light traveling to and reflected from said object; a beam splitter on said one side of said disc between said first polarizer and said quarterwave plate for receiving reflected light traveling through said quarterwave plate and said pinholes and directing it; and a polarizer for receiving the directed light. 10. A scanning microscope as in claim 9 including a light stop disposed to stop light reflected from the disc. 11. A scanning microscope as in claim 9 in which the holes are disposed in a pattern of several interleaved spirals of several turns each. 12. A scanning microscope as in claim 9 in which the disc includes an apertured dark layer on the surface of a transparent disc. 13. A scanning microscope as in claim 9 wherein said means for eliminating from said image plane light reflected by the rotating disc comprises an apertured member which interrupts the reflected light and passes transmitted light through the aperture. 