An engineered lighting system for use in an inspection system is comprised of an array of light emitting diodes. A specimen is brought into the viewing area, and a current pulse is provided to the diodes of the array to selectively flash all or a portion of the diodes of the array. Reflected light from the specimen is sensed and a digitized image is generated therefrom. An illumination level of the digitized image is adjustable, in whole or in part, by varying the effective lighting intensity of one or more of the diodes of the array during a flash period. The digitized image of the specimen is compared to data indicative of acceptability of the specimen, and acceptance or rejection of the specimen is decided on a basis of a comparison therebetween.
Claims It is now claimed: 1. An engineered inspection lighting system comprising: a plurality of directed lighting elements; securing means for securing the plurality of lighting elements to be directed to a light field; the securing means including means for securing the lighting elements in a preselected array arrangement to form a lighting array; means adapted for directing light from the lighting elements to the light field so as to light an associated specimen disposed therein substantially solely by specular illumination; and supply means for selectively providing current to lighting elements of the lighting array to provide a single illumination period to the associated specimen disposed in the light field. 2. An engineered inspection lighting system comprising: a plurality of directed lighting elements; means for securing the plurality of lighting elements to be directed to a light field; the securing means including means for securing the lighting elements in a preselected array arrangement to form a lighting array; means adapted for directing light from the lighting elements to the light field; supply means for selectively providing current to lighting elements of the lighting array to provide a single illumination period to an associated specimen disposed in the light field; light sensitive transducer means for generating an electrical signal in accordance with light exposed thereto; lens means for focusing light onto the light sensitive transducer means, which light was generated as a result of current provided to the selected lighting elements of the array by the supply means, after exposure thereof to the associated specimen; means for generating an image data signal representative of light focused onto the light sensitive transducer means by the lens means; and means for altering the supply means in accordance with the image data signal. 3. The engineered inspection lighting system of claim 2 wherein the means for altering the supply means includes means for varying at least one of activation, intensity, or duration of selected of the plurality of lighting elements. 4. The engineered inspection lighting system of claim 2 wherein the plurality of directed lighting elements include elements of each of a plurality of lighting spectra. 5. The engineered inspection lighting system of claim 2 further comprising means for generating specimen data representative of a physical characteristic of the associated specimen in accordance with the image data signal. 6. The engineered inspection lighting system of claim 5 further comprising means for testing the specimen data against data representative of a desired physical characteristic of the associated specimen. 7. The engineered inspection lighting system of claim 6 further comprising means for transporting the associated specimen to the viewing area. 8. An engineered video inspection system comprising: a plurality of directed lighting elements; means for securing the plurality of lighting elements to be directed to a light field; means for securing the lighting elements in a preselected array arrangement to form a lighting array; means adapted for directing light from the lighting elements to the light field; supply means for selectively providing current to lighting elements of the lighting array to provide a single illumination period to each of a series of associated specimens sequentially disposed in the light field; transducer means for generating an electrical signal in accordance with light exposed thereto; a lens means for focusing light onto the light sensitive transducer, which light was generated as a result of current provided to the selected lighting elements of the array by the supply means, after exposure thereof to each of the series of associated specimens; means for generating a series of image data signals, representative of light from each of the series of associated specimens, focused onto the light sensitive transducer by the lens means; and means for accumulating acceptability data representative of acceptability of future associated specimens from at least a portion of the series of image data signals. 9. The engineered video inspection system of claim 8 further comprising means for testing each image data signal against the acceptability data to determine acceptability of a specimen from which the image data signal was obtained. 10. The engineered video inspection system of claim 9 further comprising means for updating the acceptability data in accordance with selected image data signals generated from the series of associated specimens. 11. A method of automated video inspection comprising the steps of: sequentially conveying a sequence of specimens to a light field; sequentially activating a lighting array to provide a single illumination period for each of the sequence of specimens to the light field therewith; focusing light on a light sensitive transducer after each exposure thereof to each of the sequence of specimens; generating a sequence of image data signals corresponding to each of the sequence of specimens; comparing each of image data signals to data representative of acceptability of specimens; and selectively rejecting specimens in accordance with the step of comparing. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of generating the data representative of acceptability of specimens from selected of the sequence of image data signals. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of sequentially activating a lighting array further includes the step of sequentially activating the lighting array comprised of solid state light generating elements. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of sequentially activating a lighting array further includes the step of sequentially activating the lighting array comprised of light emitting diodes. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of sequentially activating a lighting array further includes the step of sequentially activating the lighting array formed of at least one ring of light emitting diodes. 16. An apparatus adapted for automated video inspection with an associated lighting array comprising: means for sequentially conveying a sequence of specimens to a light field; means for sequentially activating a lighting array to provide a single illumination period for each of the sequence of specimens in the light field; means for focusing light on a light sensitive transducer after each exposure thereof to each of the sequence of specimens; means for generating a sequence of image data signals corresponding to each of the sequence of specimens; means for comparing each of the image data signals to data representative of acceptability of specimens; and means for selectively rejecting specimens in accordance with an output of the means for comparing each of the image data signals. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising means for generating the data representative of acceptability of specimens from selected of the sequence of image data signals. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the lighting array is formed of a plurality of solid state light generating elements. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the solid state light generating elements are comprised of light emitting diodes. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising securing means for securing selected light emitting diodes of the lighting array into at least one ring of light emitting diodes. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the securing means further includes means for aligning the selected light emitting diodes such that they generally circumscribe the light field. 22. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the means for sequentially conveying includes means for conveying the sequence of specimens to the light field with a continuous motion relative to the light sensitive transducer. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the light sensitive transducer includes a single video camera. 24. An apparatus adapted for automated video inspection with an associated lighting array comprising: means for sequentially conveying a sequence of specimens to a light field with a continuous relative motion between the sequence of specimens and a single video camera; means for sequentially activating a lighting array comprised of a plurality of light emitting diodes to provide a single illumination period for each of the sequence of specimens in the light field; means for focusing light from the lighting array on the single video camera after each exposure thereof to each of the sequence of specimens; means for generating a sequence of image data signals corresponding to each of the sequence of specimens; means for comparing each of the image data signals to data representative of acceptability of specimens; and means for selectively rejecting specimens in accordance with an output of the means for comparing each of the image data signals; wherein the lighting array includes a primary array portion of the plurality of light emitting diodes and a secondary array portion of the plurality of light emitting diodes, the primary and secondary array portions differing such that an angle of propagation of light from light emitting diodes of the primary array portion to the light field is different from an angle of propagation of light from elements of the secondary to the light field. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein at least the primary array portion is generally planar, and wherein a component of direction of travel of light from the secondary light portion is parallel to the primary array portion. 26. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the means for generating a sequence of image data signals includes means for isolating each image data signal of the sequence of image data signals in accordance with light provided by the single illumination period associated therewith, which single illumination period is obtained from activation of the lighting array by the means for sequentially activating. 27. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein: the solid state light generating elements are further comprised of light emitting diodes particularly adapted for generating light in the visible spectrum; and the means for sequentially activating includes overpulsing means for sequentially activating the lighting array such that the light emitting diodes thereof are driven above normal levels. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the overpulsing means includes means for pulsing the light emitting diodes for a duration in the range of 20 to 200 microseconds. 29. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising securing means for securing selected light emitting diodes of the lighting array into at least one ring of light emitting diodes. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein the securing means further includes means for aligning the selected light emitting diodes such that they generally circumscribe the light field. 31. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of conveying the sequence of specimens to the light field with a continuous motion relative to the light sensitive transducer. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the step of focusing light includes the step of focusing the light on the light sensitive transducer formed as a single video camera. 33. The method of claim 31 further comprising the step of sequentially activating the lighting array such that the light emitting diodes thereof are driven above normal levels. 34. The method of claim 33 further comprising the step of pulsing the light emitting diodes for a duration in the range of 20 to 200 microseconds. 