An end effector device is mounted on the arm of a robot for movement through a predetermined motion relative to control axes of the robot under control of a robot controller which also controls a driver of the device to apply at least one variable programmed drive force to a first part relative to a second part at a work station. Preferably, the driver includes a screwdriver which is driven by an electric motor which, in turn, is controlled to apply a variable programmed torque at a variable programmed speed to a screw. The screwdriver and its electric motor are mounted on a slide for movement between extended and retracted positions relative to a base of the device. An air cylinder is coupled to the slide and is controlled to linearly move the slide so that the screwdriver applies a variable programmed axial force to the screw. The driver has a drive compartment formed therein which is maintained under a negative pressure for receiving and retaining the screw. For clean room applications of the device, the driver has a work compartment formed therein which is maintained under a second negative pressure. The work compartment is in fluid communication with the screw and the second part during driving thereof to evacuate any particulate from the work compartment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the automated driving of a first part at a work station, the method utilizing a robot system which includes a robot having an arm provided with a device movable relative to at least one control axis, the device including a driver for driving the first part relative to a second part positioned at a part location in the work station, the method including the steps of: automatically moving the device through a predetermined motion relative to the at least one control axis to a position adjacent the part location; and automatically controlling the device so that the driver drives the first part relative to the second part, wherein the improvement comprises: the step of automatically controlling includes the step of controlling the driver so that the driver applies a variable programmed axial force and a variable programmed torque at a variable programmed rotary speed to the first part. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the at least one variable programmed force is a programmed torque. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the driver is controlled to apply a variable programmed axial force to the first part. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the step of automatically controlling includes the step of controlling the driver so that the driver drives the first part at a variable programmed speed. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first part is a screw and wherein the driver includes a screwdriver. 6. The method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the screwdriver applies a variable programmed torque to the screw. 7. The method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the screwdriver is controlled to apply a variable, programmed axial force to the screw. 8. The method as claimed in claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the step of automatically controlling includes the step of controlling the screwdriver so that the screwdriver drives the screw at a variable, programmed rotary speed. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the step of automatically controlling includes the step of generating a force feedback signal representative of the torque applied by the driver to the first part. 10. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the step of automatically controlling includes the step of generating a position feedback signal representative of the current position of the first part relative to the second part and wherein the torque is a function of the position feedback signal. 11. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the step of automatically controlling includes the step of generating a speed feedback signal representative of the speed at which the programmed force is applied. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 5 further including the steps of: receiving the first part within a drive compartment formed in the device; and generating a part present signal to indicate that the first part is properly received within the drive compartment, the driver applying the at least one programmed force to a driven portion of the first part within the drive compartment during driving thereof. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the step of generating is performed before the step of automatically moving. 14. The method as claimed in claim 12 further including the step of retaining the first part within the drive compartment. 15. The method as claimed in claim 14 wherein the step of retaining is accomplished by maintaining a negative pressure in the drive compartment. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein said step of generating is accomplished by sensing the pressure in the receiving compartment to produce the part present signal. 17. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 5 wherein the driver is movable between extended and retracted positions relative to the robot arm and wherein the step of automatically controlling includes the step of controllably moving the driver. 18. A method for the automated driving of a first part at a work station, the method utilizing a robot system which includes a robot having an arm provided with a device movable relative to at least one control axis, the device including a driver for driving the first part relative to a second part positioned at a part location in the work station, the method including the steps of: automatically moving the device through a predetermined motion relative to the at least one control axis to a position adjacent the part location; and automatically controlling the device so that the driver drives the first part relative to the second part, wherein the improvement comprises: the step of automatically controlling includes the step of controlling the driver so that the driver applies at least one variable programmed force to the first part and further comprising the step of maintaining a first negative pressure in a work compartment formed in the device, the work compartment being in fluid communication with the first and second parts, the first negative pressure being sufficient to evacuate any particulate from the work compartment created during driving of the first part relative to the second part. 19. The method as claimed in claim 18 further including the step of maintaining a second negative pressure in a drive compartment of the device, the driver applying the at least one programmed force to a driven portion of the first part within the drive compartment during driving thereof. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the first and second negative pressures have different values. 21. A system for controlling the automated driving of a first part at a work station, the system including a robot having an arm, a controller for controlling the robot in accordance with a robot control signal, a device mounted on the robot arm and movable relative to at least one control axis, the device having a driver for driving the first part relative to a second part positioned at a part location in the work station, wherein the improvement comprises: the controller controlling the device so that the driver applies a variable programmed axial force and a variable programmed torque at a variable programmed rotary speed to the first part in accordance with drive control signals. 22. The system as claimed in claim 21 wherein the first part is a screw and wherein the driver is a screwdriver. 23. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 wherein the at least one variable programmed force is a programmed torque. 24. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 wherein the at least one programmed force is a variable programmed axial force. 25. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 wherein the controller controls the driver to apply a variable programmed axial force to the first part in accordance with a second drive control signal. 26. The system as claimed in claim 25 wherein the controller controls the driver to drive the first part at a variable programmed speed in accordance with a third drive control signal. 27. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 further including force feedback means for producing a force feedback signal representative of the torque applied by the driver to the first part. 28. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 further including position feedback means for producing a position feedback signal representative of the current position of the first part relative to the second part. 29. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 further including speed feedback means for producing a speed feedback signal representative of the speed at which the torque is applied. 30. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 wherein the device has a drive compartment formed therein for receiving the first part, and wherein the system further includes part present feedback means for producing a part present signal to indicate that the first part is properly received within the drive compartment, the driver applying the at least one programmed force to a driven portion of the first part within the drive compartment during driving thereof. 31. The system as claimed in claim 30 further including means for retaining the first part within the drive compartment. 32. The system as claimed in claim 31 wherein said means for retaining includes means for maintaining a negative pressure in the drive compartment. 33. The system as claimed in claim 32 wherein said part present feedback means includes a pressure sensor for sensing the pressure in the drive compartment, the pressure sensor producing the part present signal. 34. The system as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22 wherein the driver includes a drive tool and an actuator for moving the drive tool between extended and retracted positions relative to the robot arm and wherein the controller controls the actuator to move the drive tool in accordance with an actuator control signal. 35. A system for controlling the automated driving of a first part at a work station, the system including a robot having an arm, a controller for controlling the robot in accordance with a robot control signal, a device mounted on the robot arm and movable relative to at least one control axis, the device having a driver for driving the first part relative to a second part positioned at a part location in the work station, wherein the improvement comprises: the controller controlling the device so that the driver applies at least one variable programmed force to the first part in accordance with a drive control signal and further including means for maintaining a first negative pressure in a work compartment formed in the device, the work compartment being in fluid communication with the first and second parts, the negative pressure being sufficient to evacuate any particulate from the work compartment created during driving of the first part relative to the second part. 36. The system as claimed in claim 35 further including means for maintaining a second negative pressure in a drive compartment of the device, the driver applying the at least one programmed force to a driven portion of the first part within the drive compartment during driving thereof. 37. The system as claimed in claim 36 wherein the first and second negative pressures have different values. 38. A device for use in an automated part driving system including a controller for providing control signals including a robot control signal and a robot having an arm adapted to support the device for movement relative to at least one control axis so that the robot moves the device at a work station relative to the control axis to permit the device to automatically drive a first part relative to a second part located at the work station, the device comprising: a base adapted to be connected to the robot arm for movement therewith; and a driver mounted on the base and including a drive tool and actuator means adapted to receive drive control signals from the controller and coupled to the drive tool so that the drive tool applies a variable programmed axial force and a variable programmed torque at a variable programmed rotary speed to the first part in accordance with the drive control signals. 39. The device as claimed in claim 38 wherein the drive tool is mounted on the base for movement between extended and retracted positions relative to the robot arm and wherein the actuator means is adapted to receive one of the drive control signals from the controller for controllably moving the drive tool between the extended and retracted positions in accordance with the one of the drive control signals. 40. The device as claimed in claim 38 or claim 39 wherein the at least one programmed force is a variable programmed torque. 41. The device as claimed in claim 39 wherein the first part is a screw and wherein the driver is a screwdriver. 42. The device as claimed in claim 39 or claim 40 wherein the actuator means linearly moves the drive tool so that the drive tool applies a variable, programmed, axial force to the first part in accordance with the second drive control signal from the controller. 43. The device as claimed in claim 39 or claim 40 wherein the drive tool applies the at least one programmed force to the first part at a variable, programmed speed in accordance with a third drive control signal from the controller. 44. The device as claimed in claim 39 or claim 40 further comprising position feedback means for producing a position feedback signal representative of the current position of the first part relative to the second part. 45. The device as claimed in claim 39 or claim 40 wherein the device has a drive compartment formed therein for receiving the first part and wherein the device further comprises part present feedback means for producing a part present signal to indicate that the first part is properly received within the drive compartment. 46. The device as claimed in claim 45 further comprising means for retaining the first part within the drive compartment. 47. The device as claimed in claim 46 wherein said means for retaining includes means for maintaining a negative pressure in the drive compartment. 48. The device as claimed in claim 47 wherein said part present feedback means includes a pressure sensor for sensing the pressure in the drive compartment, the pressure sensor producing the part present signal. 49. The device as claimed in claim 39 wherein said actuator means includes an electric motor for receiving one of the drive control signals and applying the variable programmed torque in response thereto. 50. The device as claimed in claim 49 wherein said actuator means further includes a linear motor for receiving a second one of the drive control signals and linearly moving the drive tool in response thereto. 51. A device for use in an automated part driving system including a controller for providing control signals including a robot control signal and a robot having an arm adapted to support the device for movement relative to at least one control axis so that the robot moves the device at a work station relative to the control axis to permit the device to automatically drive a first part relative to a second part located at the work station, the device comprising: a base adapted to be connected to the robot arm for movement therewith; and a driver mounted on the base and including a drive tool and actuator means adapted to receive a drive control signal from the controller and coupled to the drive tool so that the drive tool applies at least one variable programmed force to the first part in accordance with the first drive control signal and further comprising means for maintaining a negative pressure in a work compartment formed in the device, the work compartment being in fluid communication with the first and second parts, the negative pressure being sufficient to evacuate any particulate from the work compartment created during driving of the first part relative to the second part. 52. The device as claimed in claim 51 further comprising means for maintaining a second negative pressure in a drive compartment of the device, the driver applying the at least one programmed force to a driven portion of the first part within the drive compartment during driving thereof. 53. The device as claimed in claim 52 wherein the first and second negative pressures have different values. 