A manipulator is disclosed which includes first and second interconnected limb sections, the second section of which is elongated and flexible in at least one direction normal to the longitudinal axis. The first limb section is connected to a base, and the second limb section is connected to an end effector. Relative to a reference frame with origin at the first limb section, the stiffness matrix of the second limb section is variable, and is under motor control. In one embodiment, the second limb section is inflexible in a direction orthogonal to the one direction and the longitudinal axis, and is supported by the first limb section for rotation about the longitudinal axis. In another embodiment, the second limb section is flexible in all directions normal to the longitudinal axis, and a plurality of adjustable-tension stays attached to the second limb section adjacent opposite ends thereof are used to control the stiffness matrix thereof. Methods of damping vibration of the flexible beam are shown.
Claims We claim: 1. An articulatable structure for support of end effector means comprising, base means, an elongated limb comprising axially aligned first and second interconnected limb sections, said second limb section being elongated, resilient and flexible in at least one direction normal to the longitudinal axis thereof during use thereof, said second limb section being substantially inflexible in a direction orthogonal to said longitudinal axis and said one direction, rotatable coupling means for rotatably interconnecting said first and second limb sections for relative rotation about said longitudinal axis, means for connecting said first limb section to said base means, means for connecting said second limb section to end effector means, and motor means for rotating said second limb section relative to a reference frame with origin at the first limb section for controlling the passive stiffness matrix of the second limb section relative to said reference frame, which motor means is energized only when the passive stiffness matrix is being changed by said motor means and is deenergized during times that the passive stiffness matrix is not being changed during periods between changes in the passive stiffness matrix. 2. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 1 wherein said limb comprises the forearm of a robot. 3. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 1 wherein said first limb section is substantially rigid. 4. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 1 wherein said limb includes a third limb section connected to said second limb section, which third limb section is included in said means for connecting said second limb section to end effector means. 5. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 4 wherein said first and third limb sections are substantially rigid. 6. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 5 including rotatable coupling means for rotatably interconnecting said second and third limb sections for relative rotation about said longitudinal axis, and motor means for rotating said third limb section relative to said second limb section. 7. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 4 wherein said limb comprises the forearm of a robot. 8. An articulatable structure as defined in claim 7 including wrist means attached to said third limb section, which said wrist means is included in said means for connecting said second limb section to end effector means. 9. A limb for use in an articulatable structure such as a robot, or the like, comprising a first limb section, an elongated second limb section which, during use, is resilient and flexible in one direction normal to its longitudinal axis and is substantially inflexible in a direction normal to both said one direction and said longitudinal axis, rotatable coupling means for rotatably coupling said first and second limb sections for relative rotation thereof about said longitudinal axis, motor means operatively connected between said first and second limb sections for rotating said second limb section relative to said first limb section about said longitudinal axis and controlling the passive stiffness matrix of the second limb section in two orthogonal directions normal to said longitudinal axis relative to a reference frame with origin at the first limb section, a third limb section in axial alignment with said first and second limb sections, rotatable coupling means for rotatably coupling said second and third limb sections for relative rotation thereof about said longitudinal axis, said rotatable coupling means for rotatably coupling said first and second limb sections and said rotatable coupling means for rotatably coupling said second and third limb section being kinematically redundant, and motor means operatively connected between said second and third limb sections for rotating said third limb section relative to said second limb section about said longitudinal axis, said motor means for rotating said second limb section relative to said first limb section and said motor means for rotating said third limb section relative to said second limb section being simultaneously operable such that the second limb section is simultaneously rotatable relative to both said first and third limb sections while said first and third limb sections are relatively rotatably stationary for controlling the passive stiffness matrix of the second limb section relative to a reference frame with origin at the first limb section. 